DRN-2959207
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of J, which is a limited company. The complaint 
is that Lloyds Bank PLC did not fairly compensate J when it mis-sold commercial overdraft 
repayment insurance to it. The cover was added to Js business bank account. 
Commercial overdraft repayment insurance is a form of payment protection insurance 
(PPI). For ease of reference, Ill refer to PPI for the rest of this decision. 
I can also see that PPI was added to a loan J took out. Lloyds agreed that cover was mis-
sold and J hasnt complained to this service about that policy. To be clear, Im only looking at 
what happened with the PPI sold alongside the business account. 
What happened
J complained to Lloyds that PPI had been mis-sold. On 10 December 2018, Lloyds upheld 
Js complaint and offered to pay £7,575.76 in compensation for that mis-sale. Lloyds said Js 
PPI policy ran from 28 March 2007 to 28 May 2008 and the compensation offer was worked 
out using the PPI premiums J paid between those dates. 
Through its representatives, J disagreed with the dates used by Lloyds to calculate that 
compensation. It was argued that Lloyds had disclosed information to J which indicated the 
policy may have been sold in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy had started in 1996. Her view was that the business 
account was opened in 1996 and that PPI was added sometime later in March 2007. She 
thought the last premium had been paid by J in May 2008. On that basis, she concluded 
Lloyds offer to compensate J was fair. 
Those representing J indicated it wanted to accept Lloyds offer of compensation. But J 
contacted our adjudicator directly and said it did not agree with her view. 
As J did not agree with what our adjudicator said, it was referred to be considered by an 
ombudsman in June 2021. I can see from the resulting correspondence that J indicated it 
would retrieve and send to us its business accounts within two weeks. 
The matter was passed to me in August 2021. Our adjudicator asked J to provide its 
documents to us within three weeks if it still wanted me to consider that information. No reply 
was received. Our adjudicator tried to contact J by telephone to see whether it still intended 
to send further information to us. Those calls were unsuccessful. Our adjudicator then sent a 
further email request to J for the information it told us about, but no response was received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to look at how the policy came to be 
sold. Im just looking at whether Lloyds offered to fairly compensate J for that mis-sale. I 
appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to J, but having considered the 
evidence before me, I am satisfied the offer Lloyds made to compensate it for mis-sold PPi 
was fair. Ill explain why below. 
Im aware J said that it intended to provide further information for me to consider before 
making a final decision. J told us in June 2021 that it would provide that information within 
two weeks, but nothing has been received. And there has been no response to our 
adjudicators further requests for that information to be provided. After taking account of the 
information we do have, Im satisfied it is sufficient for me to make a final decision in this 
case. 
I appreciate J feels strongly that Lloyds initially told it PPI had been sold in 1996. But I dont 
think Lloyds did give such an indication. What Lloyds said was: 
We have now searched [J]s business accounts and loans and found that they 
were sold PPI. 
Business account [number]
Open date: 31 December 1996
Close date: Open
PPI: Yes 
I dont think this means the PPI was sold in 1996. I think the information above is referring to 
when the business account was opened. The parties appear to agree that J is no longer 
being charged PPI premiums, so if Lloyds was referring to PPI rather than the business 
account, the PPI policy wouldnt be showing as still open.  I cant reasonably find Lloyds 
said J had PPI from 1996. 
Lloyds provided us with some electronic information relating to Js business account and a 
search it undertook of that account. From that information, I can see 14 PPI premiums were 
paid. The first premium was paid on 30 April 2007, which is consistent with the start date of 
the policy being in March 20007. And the final premium was paid on 28 May 2008. From the 
evidence Ive been provided with, I cant see any premiums paid before 30 April 2007 or any 
payments subsequent to 28 May 2008. 
I appreciate J says PPI was sold when the business account was opened. But Im afraid the 
evidence before me doesnt support that. With all of this in mind, Im satisfied that, on the 
evidence before me, Js PPI policy most likely ran from 28 March 2007 until 28 May 2008. I 
am further satisfied that it most likely paid 14 premiums for that policy between 30 April 2007 
and 28 May 2008. 
Looking at the calculation Lloyds undertook, I can see it has also taken all of the steps I 
would usually expect it to take when calculating fair compensation. It has refunded all of the 
PPI premiums and associated interest paid by J. 
Lloyds also calculated 8% simple interest on the cost of those premiums to compensate J for 
the lost opportunity to use those funds. Lloyds says the refund was paid on 13 December 
2018, and I can see the 8% simple interest was calculated up to 4 January 2019. Putting all of this together, Im satisfied Lloyds fairly compensated J for the PPI that was mis-
sold alongside Js business account. I dont need to tell Lloyds to take any further action in 
respect of this complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Lloyds Bank PLC paid J fair compensation 
for the mis-sale of PPI. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman