DRN-2714505
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. He wants £3,500 compensation for his financial losses.
What happened
Mr M reported an accident with another driver, and he told Admiral that he wasnt at fault. 
Admiral offered Mr M the use of its services or those of a claims management company to 
deal with his claim. Mr M chose the latter, but he was later unhappy that the options hadnt 
been fully explained to him. Mr Ms car was deemed a total loss, but he was unhappy that 
the new car replacement scheme didnt apply as there was finance on the car. He was also 
unhappy that Admiral delayed responding to the valuation put on his car. Admiral paid Mr M 
£100 compensation for its service failings. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
limits of the new car replacement scheme were explained in the policy booklet. She thought 
Mr M had chosen to use the claims management company after being given reasonable 
information. And she thought Admiral had reasonably compensated Mr M for its service 
failings.
Mr M replied that the limit of the new car replacement scheme wasnt set out in any of 
Admirals publicity or product information but on one line in the policy booklet. He said he 
wouldnt have bought the policy if the exclusion had been brought to his attention. He said 
he should have been told that his finance company had disengaged with the scheme after 
he took out the policy. He thought £100 wasnt sufficient compensation for the stress and 
anxiety caused by Admiral.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he lost out financially through Admirals handling of the claim. He said his finance 
company wouldnt transfer the financial agreement to a replacement car. And so hed spent 
£2,500 paying finance for a car he no longer had and an extra £1,000 clearing the 
outstanding finance.  
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr M has pointed out that Admirals product information and publicity dont explain that there 
are any exclusions applying to the new car replacement scheme. But on page 23 under 
section 8 (4. New car replacement) of the policy booklet it states:
We must gain authorisation from anyone else who has an interest in your car before we can 
offer this benefit,
I think thats a reasonable policy term and condition as the finance company remains the 
cars owner until the finance is repaid. Admiral said Mr Ms finance company wouldnt 
engage with its replacement scheme. It said the company had decided this after Mr M had 
taken out his policy. So I dont think Admiral could then have warned Mr M about this and I 
cant say it mis-sold the policy. 
And Admiral also said that Mr M could still benefit from the scheme if he settled his finance 
with the company directly. I can understand that this would require Mr M to make an outlay, 
but I think that means he could still use the scheme. And so I think Admiral has acted fairly 
and reasonably and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. I cant hold Admiral 
responsible for how Mr M chose to finance his car. And I dont require it to compensate Mr M 
for his financial losses. 
When Mr M notified Admiral of the claim it offered him the options of using his insurer or a 
non-fault claims service to deal with the claim. Mr M said the options werent fully explained 
to him. 
When a consumer has been directed to a claims management company rather than their 
insurer to deal with their claim, we look at the referral process. We look at the information the 
consumer was given, and we also look at whether they would have acted differently if theyd 
been given the full facts. 
I think Admirals agent explained the options clearly enough for Mr M to make an informed 
choice of how to deal with his claim. Mr M said he was told if he used the claims 
management company his No Claims Discount (NCD) wouldnt be affected. But as this was 
a non-fault claim, he thought his NCD wouldnt be affected in any case. 
But I dont agree. As Admiral has explained a claim is only recorded as non-fault when it has 
an official admission of liability from the other insurer and has recovered its losses. So, whilst 
Mr M had a verbal admission of liability and he said the police were prosecuting the other 
driver, Admiral had yet to receive an official admission from the other company. So I cant 
say that Admiral misinformed Mr M. And I think Mr M agreed to proceed with the claims 
management company as he didnt want to pay his policy excess. 
Admiral has agreed that there were delays in settling the claim. And it said that, in hindsight, 
the claim would have been handled more smoothly if it had been kept in-house. It paid Mr M 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. I think thats fair and reasonable 
as its in keeping with what Id require in similar circumstances. I dont require Admiral to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman