DRN-2879533
The complaint
Ms V complains about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
What happened
Ms V complained about the service she received from HSBC, and in particular, her local 
branch. HSBC upheld her complaint in part and offered her £50 compensation. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, and mindful her original complaint contained some 
inaccuracies, Ms V updated her complaint in a letter addressed to HSBC, but shared with 
our service, dated 18 December 2020.
 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In his view HSBC 
had applied restrictions to Ms Vs account when it shouldnt have, twice, and that this had 
caused inconvenience to Ms W. He recommended HSBC pay Ms V £150 compensation, in 
total, to resolve the complaint.
 
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation. Ms V didnt accept it as she felt some of 
HSBCs other failings had been overlooked. As an agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms V has set out several points shed like me to consider and address. My role, however, 
allows me to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint and thats what Ive done. 
Ms Vs account was restricted twice. My understanding is this happened because staff at 
Ms Vs local branch felt their interactions with her warranted it and was a prelude to ending 
their banking relationship. I dont think this action was appropriate. I say this because from 
whats been presented to me there was insufficient justification for an immediate account 
closure. However, HSBC didnt go on to close the account immediately, hasnt closed the 
account in the meantime, and accepts it shouldnt have restricted Ms Vs account. There is, 
therefore, no dispute that HSBC made a mistake here.
Ms V has explained that the restrictions caused her inconvenience. For example, Ms V says 
she needed to pay a tradesman. She couldnt withdraw cash at one branch, and thinking the 
ATM was broken and weary of waiting in a long queue, attempted to withdrawn cash at 
another. At the second branch she found her account was restricted and identification was 
required to remove the restriction. She then had to travel home for her identification and visit 
a third branch to have the restriction removed so she could pay the tradesman. Ms V has 
explained this, combined with her health concerns, had a significant impact on her. HSBC 
should compensate her fairly for this and I agree £150 compensation, as recommended by 
the investigator, does so.  
Separate to the above, its clear Ms V is unhappy with the customer service shes received 
from HSBC, and in particular, her local branch. Shes described staff not adhering to Covid 
related social distancing, not taking possession of confidential waste and their general 
attitude. But from what Ive seen, HSBC commenced but later abandoned a decision to close 
Ms Vs account. This suggests to me that the relationship between both parties was breaking 
down. 
Neither Ms V nor HSBC has provided me with any substantive evidence to support 
wrongdoing by the other party. I have, however, taken testimonies into account and Im 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities  in other words what I think is most likely  both 
parties could have handled things better and Im not persuaded the customer service HSBC 
provided to Ms V was poor to the extent compensation is appropriate. It follows I dont 
require HSBC to take any further action in relation to this point. 
Im aware Ms V is unhappy with the way her complaint was handled. Complaint handling, 
however, isnt a regulated or other covered activity (or ancillary to a regulated activity or 
other covered activity). I cant comment on that part of the complaint as it would be beyond 
my powers to do so.  
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Ms V £150 compensation, in total, in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.    
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Ms V £150 compensation, in 
total, in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman