DRN-3142786
The complaint
Mrs H complains about invoices she has received from Gladstone Brookes Limited (GBL) 
for work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
She says she ended her instructions with them and carried out the work herself. 
What happened
Mrs H says she asked GBL to look into any PPI claims but then cancelled her instructions in 
October 2019 and asked them to remove her details from their system. Mrs H says she then 
received contact direct from Lender B and Lender M which led to both upholding her 
complaint and making an offer of a refund. Mrs H says GBL then contacted her and sent her 
invoices for their fee. So, Mrs H complained. 
GBL responded and said they were instructed by Mrs H to handle her claim but, due to Mrs 
Hs involvement with the claim, they were prepared to reduce their fees to 15% as a gesture 
of goodwill. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs H. She thought GBL were entitled to a fee and felt 
their offer to reduce their fees to 15% was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs H 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the investigators recommendation is a fair way to resolve 
matters. I understand Mrs H will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
Its clear theres a dispute here about whether Mrs H ended her instructions to GBL. Mrs H 
says she did initially ask GBL to make enquiries but then ended her instructions and 
thereafter communicated with the lenders direct. GBL say theyre entitled to their fee as     
Mrs H instructed them to handle her claims. Given the different accounts, Ive looked at the 
evidence and what I think is more likely to have happened than not.  
 
The terms and conditions say, by completing the complaint pack, Mrs H agrees to the terms 
and conditions and GBL will then ask any selected lenders to investigate any PPI Mrs H 
mightve had. And, if any claim is successful, GBL will charge a fee of 20% plus VAT. The 
terms and conditions define a successful claim as one where Mrs H is awarded a return of 
any of the money she paid in respect of the PPI.    
GBL have provided a signed Letter of Authority (LoA) dated 20 August 2019 authorising 
them to act on Mrs Hs behalf in a claim against Lender B. The LoA also says I understand 
that if PPI is or may be present, they will proceed to make a formal complaint in relation to 
the mis-selling and/or Undisclosed Commission involved in the sale of my PPI And, I 
give full authority for [GBL] to liaise with all relevant third parties in relation to my claim 
GBL then submit Mrs Hs claim and Lender B respond in November saying there was PPI on 
one account and also confirm no previous PPI complaint had been made. Lender B then 
write to GBL in August 2020 and say Please find enclosed a copy of our letter, which has 
been sent directly to your client. The letter to Mrs H asks her for some further information. 
Lender B then write to GBL again in September enclosing a letter sent to Mrs H. The letter to 
Mrs H confirms Lender B has upheld her complaint and will be awarding a refund.    
In relation to the claim against Lender M, GBL have provided a signed LoA dated 20 August 
2019  this contains the same terms as set out in the LoA for Lender B. GBL submit the 
claim to Lender M and they respond in November and confirm they have identified three 
accounts with PPI. Lender M then write to GBL in May 2020 confirming they have upheld the 
complaint and will be awarding a refund. 
Taking this all into account, the information provided by GBL shows Mrs H instructed them to 
handle her claims against both lenders. They submitted the claims before the PPI deadline 
and communicated with the lenders  and this led to a successful outcome in the claims 
against both lenders. 
I understand Mrs H says she ended her instructions to GBL in October 2019 but I havent 
seen any evidence of this. Mrs H has also provided a copy of letters which were sent direct 
to her from the lenders. Its clear the lenders were writing directly to Mrs H and information 
provided by GBL shows there are a number of letters which are sent to Mrs H direct with a 
copy sent to GBL. Its not uncommon for lenders, once an enquiry is made by a claims 
management company, to then correspond with a customer direct. That doesnt then mean 
the claims management companys contract with a customer then comes to an end. So, 
while I dont doubt Mrs H did have direct communication with the lenders which involved 
providing further information, GBL initially started the claim on Mrs Hs behalf and this led to 
a successful outcome. So, I dont think its unreasonable for GBL to be paid a fee. 
GBL charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, GBLs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Just because GBLs fee might be higher than the value of the work they have done for     
Mrs H, it doesnt make their fee unjustified.
 
Taking this all into account, I dont think its unreasonable for GBL to charge a fee for the 
work theyve carried out. GBL recognise Mrs H has carried out some work herself and in 
view of this have agreed to reduce their fee to 15% - and I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.   
My final decision
Gladstone Brookes Limited have already made an offer to reduce their fees to 15% to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman