DRN-2795848
The complaint
Mr R complains about British Gas Services Limited (BGS) and the length of time it took them 
to repair a fault to the heating system of his rental property.
What happened
Mr R owned a property which he let out to tenants. He took out an insurance policy with BGS 
to cover this property.
On 2 December 2019, Mr R contacted BGS to make a claim on the policy as the radiators in 
two of the rooms had stopped working. BGS initially arranged for an engineer to attend on 
10 December. But on 6 December, BGS told Mr R they needed to reschedule the 
appointment due to a high number of emergency calls. So, the appointment was 
rescheduled for the 16 December.
An engineer attended the property on that date, and completed the work needed to restore 
heating to the two rooms that had been affected. But Mr R was unhappy with how long it had 
taken BGS to fix the issue, so he raised a complaint.
Mr R didnt think the two weeks it took BGS to fix the issue was a reasonable time frame. He 
explained his tenants were unhappy theyd been left without heating and had threatened to 
make a complaint to the housing department. To prevent this, Mr R had compensated the 
tenants £125. So, he thought BGS should cover this amount.
BGS acknowledged the length of time it had taken to fix the issue at Mr Rs rental property. 
But they explained this was due to increased demand of emergency calls at that time. They 
explained as Mr Rs property still had hot water and central heating in most of the rooms, 
they prioritised other claims where these facilities werent available at all. They offered Mr R 
£50 as a gesture of good will, to acknowledge the delays he encountered and the frustration 
it wouldve caused. But they didnt think they needed to offer anything more. Mr R remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She acknowledged the 
frustration that Mr R wouldve been caused when the original appointment was rescheduled. 
But she thought BGS had acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy, by making Mr 
R aware beforehand. And she thought BGS had acted fairly by prioritising other claims as Mr 
Rs tenants still had access to hot water and central heating in most of the property. That 
being said, she recognised the claim had been delayed but thought the £50 BGS offered 
was a fair one. So, she didnt think BGS needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained his view that two weeks from the date of the initial claim 
wasnt a reasonable time frame for the repair. He didnt think it was fair for him to be left out 
of pocket because BGS were understaffed, which he speculated they did to maximise 
profits. So, he wanted BGS to cover the cost of the £125 he paid to his tenants. As Mr R 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact the complaint has had on Mr R. I can appreciate he took 
out the policy with BGS to reduce the stress and financial cost a situation like this would 
have. And I recognise, due to the length of time it took for an engineer to attend the property, 
Mr R had to handle a complaint from his tenants which led to him choosing to compensate 
them directly. Mr R feels if the engineer had attended sooner this couldve been avoided, 
and I can understand why he thinks this. 
But for me to say BGS should cover the cost of what Mr R paid to his tenants, or for BGS to 
increase the offer theyve already provided, Id need to be satisfied they failed to work in line 
with the terms of the policy Mr R held. Or, if they did work within the terms of the policy, that 
it was unfair for BGS to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr R held, which provides BGSs definition 
of reasonable timescales. It explains Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to 
within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in 
which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can 
visit.
Mr R feels this term is purposefully vague and doesnt think the two weeks is reasonable. 
So, Ive thought about whether I agree.
Mr R made his claim in December, when the weather is much colder. BGS have explained at 
the time Mr R made his claim, they were receiving a high volume of emergency calls. I think 
this is reasonable to expect considering the time of year and the additional stress placed on 
heating systems that need to be used for longer, so I dont doubt this was the case. And they 
took the decision to prioritise claims where customers had no heating or hot water available. 
As Mr Rs tenants had access to hot water, and heating in the rooms other than the two 
where the radiators werent working, they didnt feel this claim required prioritisation. I think 
this was a reasonable decision for BGS to make as other customers were in more difficult 
situations, where there was a more significant threat to their health. While I can appreciate it 
was inconvenient for Mr Rs tenants, they still had access to heating and hot water in the 
majority of their rooms. So, I think they were able to cope with this situation for longer, with 
significantly less risk that those who had no heating and hot water altogether. 
So, I dont think I can say BGSs decision to reschedule Mr Rs appointment was unfair. And 
I think they acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy by making Mr R aware 
beforehand as well as providing another appointment date. And an engineer attended the 
property on the rearranged date and fixed the issue.
I appreciate Mr R doesnt think this was done in a reasonable amount of time. But 
considering the time of year, and the explanation for the delay provided by BGS, I think it 
was. And I can also appreciate Mr Rs concerns about the staffing level arranged by BGS, 
and his belief this is calculated to maximise profits. But staffing levels are a business 
decision made by BGS, and this isnt something we consider at the service. Any issues 
surrounding business processes are monitored and investigated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), who regulate the industry.But even so, I can see BGS have offered Mr R £50 as a gesture of goodwill, to recognise the 
fact an appointment was rescheduled and the inconvenience this wouldve caused him. I 
think this offer is a fair one, and its Mr Rs decision whether he wishes to accept this. So, I 
dont think BGS need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. And I do recognise this doesnt help 
him cover the £125 he compensated his tenants after they complained about the situation. 
But this offer of compensation was Mr Rs own decision, and it isnt something that is 
covered by the terms and conditions of the insurance policy he holds. As I dont think BGS 
acted unreasonably, I cant fairly say they should be responsible for the cost Mr R incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about British Gas Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman