DRN-3880823
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W lives in a county on the edge of the national road network.
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car with a 15 registration plate.
Mr W had the car insured for the year from early July 2022, on a comprehensive policy 
branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurance 
company responsible for dealing with any claim.
The policy covered Mr W as policyholder. It also covered his parents as named drivers. 
Unfortunately, in late August 2022, the car was damaged in an accident. Mr W made a claim 
to Advantage. 
He later complained to Advantage about delay and about the time he was left without a 
courtesy vehicle.
In a telephone call on 15 September 2022, Mr W made a further complaint that the insurer 
was responsible for mishandling the car after the accident and causing further damage to it.
By a final response dated 27 September 2022, Advantage responded to the complaint about 
delay and about the time without a courtesy vehicle. It upheld the complaint about delay and 
said it was sending a cheque for £100.00 compensation as an apology. Advantage said it 
was providing a hire car while it was waiting for a report on Mr Ws car. 
In late September 2022, Advantage said the car was a total loss. Mr W brought his complaint 
to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Advantage had dealt with the claim fairly.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
After the accident, the car was obstructing a highway. It took five hours for the car to 
be recovered.
Despite the insurer being told that the vehicle was not driveable or steerable, an 
incorrect vehicle was used to recover the vehicle. 
Advantage didnt have any approved garages in the county. This was the main 
contributor to delay in placing the car with a garage and making a courtesy car 
available.
The possibility of the vehicle being a total loss was not advised until 14 September 
2022 and that was based on a report from the storage facility and not an engineers 
inspection. This was partially as a result of the cost of storing the car which is directly 
attributable to the insurer not having a registered garage in the county.
Advantage then said the car would be delivered to a local garage and a hire car 
would be arranged.
The car was transported to the garage again on an incorrect vehicle. The delivery 
driver was witnessed lifting the vehicle by the driver side rear wheel arch and 
dropping it back down on the transporter to reposition it. Winching the car was 
causing further damage to the front wheels and steering mechanism. This happened 
several times and assisted by five garage staff to keep the vehicle on the transporter 
ramp as it was winched down.  This caused further extensive and visible damage as 
the front passenger side wheel was pushed into the body work and sill, wear marks 
were visible on all 4 tyres resulting from the car being dragged, and the rear drivers 
side wheel arch (being part of the monocoque chassis) dinted in several places. 
Photographic evidence of this further damage is available. Other non-visible damage 
could also have been caused by the vehicle being dragged on and off transporters 
incorrectly. 
The further damage to the car while being stored and transported rendered it a total 
loss and not the accident.   
The hire car was kept until Advantages vehicle salvage company completed their 
report.
He is seeking an increased level of compensation for:
1. Being left without a vehicle for 3 weeks in a rural location;
2. The many telephone calls and personal time taken to unsuccessfully pursue a 
satisfactory level of customer service;
3. The inconvenience to him and his parents as he had to borrow their car to get to 
work.
Our investigator still didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to prove that the car was written off as a result of the transit 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against a regulated 
financial firm. Where its a complaint about a claim on an insurance policy, we treat it as a 
complaint against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with the claim. 
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at the impact on the 
consumer and we direct compensation or other redress to try to put that right. We assess 
compensation by reference to the actual impact rather than whet mightve happened.
The impact may include financial loss. It may also include distress and inconvenience, our 
approach to which is set out on our website.Advantages policy terms said that it would provide a replacement vehicle while one of its 
approved repairers was repairing the insured car   but not in the event that the insured car 
was a total loss.
Ive seen a vehicle check that says that the car passed an MOT test in early August 2022 
with a recorded mileage of about 43,000.
Advantage is entitled to choose its approved repairers. I cant say that it treated Mr W 
unfairly or unreasonably by not having an approved repairer in his county. 
From what hes told us, Mr W suffers poor mental health. In my view, the accident and the 
need to make a claim were bound to cause Mr W some distress and inconvenience. That 
included the need to make at least some telephone calls.
The accident caused the car to become undriveable. So I dont hold Advantage at fault for 
taking some hours to recover the damaged car. Mr W hasnt provided enough detail or 
evidence to show that the recovery operation caused further damage to the car.
At first Advantage thought the car was repairable. If that had been the case then Advantage 
shouldve provided a courtesy car.
From the claim notes, I can see that Advantage experienced difficulty and delay in arranging 
a garage to inspect the car. From what Ive seen, I find it likely that all the garages were 
busy. Mr W hasnt provided enough evidence to support his view that no garage would 
accept his car and provide a courtesy car because of where he lived.
Advantage didnt provide a courtesy car to Mr W until after mid-September 2022. That was 
when its engineer reviewed details of the damage and thought that the car was likely to be a 
total loss, but called for an inspection of the damaged car. 
From that, I find it more likely than not that the car was already so damaged that Advantage 
could reasonably treat it as a total loss. I consider that at least part of the reason for 
inspection was to assess the pre-accident condition and value of the car.
Mr W has given good detail of the rough handling of the damaged car when it arrived at the 
local garage. However, there isnt enough engineering evidence to support his view that the 
further damage caused the car to go from repairable to a total loss.
The inspection took place in late September 2022 and confirmed that the car was a total 
loss.
So the process took about a month. During that month, Mr W continued to bear the cost of 
the insurance and road tax for a car he couldnt drive. However, I consider that this was part 
of the cost of his ownership of the car. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage 
to pay compensation for such costs.
For about three weeks of that month, Mr W had the use of his parents car. I accept that this 
was inconvenient for them, and their car accumulated more mileage. 
However, Advantage provided Mr W with a courtesy car for a week or two. Overall, Im 
satisfied that his car was a total loss and Advantage provided a courtesy car for at least as 
long as the policy provided. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay 
compensation for not providing a courtesy car for a longer period.Ive seen evidence that Advantage was responsible for shortcomings in its communication. 
The impact of that on Mr W was that he felt ignored and he had to chase for progress and 
updates. I accept that he spent more than ten hours on telephone calls. But I consider that 
some of that was inevitable. In any event, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Advantage to pay him an hourly rate for such calls.
Mr W hasnt provided enough medical evidence to support his view that Advantage caused a 
worsening of his health. Nevertheless I accept that he and his family had to work hard to 
protect his health and his ability to work and to have a social life.
Advantage tried to put things right by offering £100.00. So Ive thought about what I wouldve 
found it fair to direct Advantage to pay if it hadnt made any offer. Ive concluded that  for 
the extra distress and inconvenience Advantages shortcomings caused Mr W at an already 
difficult time - £100.00 is fair and reasonable in line with our usual approach. So I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay Mr W any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman