DRN-1801455
 
The complaint
Mr S T\A Go Bananas Hair Company 3 complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handling 
of credit and debit cards and its poor customer service.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr S received a call from Lloyds asking him to verify some purchases as it 
believed them to be fraudulent. Mr S confirmed that they were fraudulent and his credit card 
was stopped. He was asked to destroy the card and a replacement was ordered. 
Unfortunately Mr S thought hed been asked to destroy his debit card (which hadnt been 
affected) and did so which meant that he had to wait a while for a replacement card. When 
he used his credit card, which had been the card compromised, the transaction declined, so 
he contacted Lloyds. A replacement credit card was sent to him and when he used it that 
transaction declined, as there was a block on the card. 
Mr S again contacted Lloyds and was told that the block had been removed. He made a test 
purchase which was successful so he believed that the block had been lifted. He attempted 
another purchase (at a store that he had been a long standing customer of) and this declined 
too. Mr S said that this affected his financial reputation with the company and caused him 
embarrassment. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds about the poor customer service he experienced and the damage 
he felt this had on his financial reputation. Lloyds partially upheld his complaint as it admitted 
that its customer service had fallen below its standards. It said that the declined payment 
was correct as there had been security checks but it offered £250 compensation to account 
for the poor service. It also offered to review his travelling and call costs, once Mr S provided 
this information. 
Mr S was still unhappy with Lloyds response and referred his complaint to the service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that Lloyds had treated Mr S 
reasonably. He said that Lloyds had recognised its error and offered £250 compensation, 
which was fair.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. I have considered what I think is 
Mr S main issues, these are:
Being without a debit card for some time. 
The effect on his financial reputation when his transactions were declined. 
 
Compromised card 
We asked Lloyds to send in the call recording between Mr S and Lloyds where it told him 
about the compromised card. But unfortunately it hasnt been able to do so. Mr S said that 
the agent told him that it was his debit card and not his credit card that had been 
compromised. Due to this Mr S said that he mistakenly destroyed his debit card. There is no 
evidence to doubt what Mr S has said. So I am persuaded that by him destroying his debit 
rather than the compromised credit card wouldve caused him added inconvenience. 
Especially as he said there was a delay in him receiving his debit card. 
Declined payments and his financial reputation
Mr S felt that his declined card payments caused him embarrassment and affected his 
financial reputation with his suppliers. I can see that Lloyds had placed a security block on 
the card and failed to remove it when it said it would. But, Mr S was asked to provide 
evidence as to the financial loss that he incurred as a result of this. Fortunately, he 
confirmed that he didnt suffer from any financial loss. Nonetheless, the whole event caused 
him a great deal of embarrassment.
In addition, he said that he had to call Lloyds a few times and leave messages but his calls 
werent returned. He felt that Lloyds hadnt taken his concerns seriously and as such, he 
wanted far more compensation than he was offered. 
I have next considered whether the level of compensation is fair and reasonable and I think it 
is. Ill explain why. Lloyds has accepted that its customer service was poor and that there 
was delay. It offered compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset it caused.
I accept that Mr S didnt suffer from financial loss and find that there wasnt significant 
damage to his financial reputation. Nevertheless, I can see how this wouldve impacted on 
him. So taking all this into account, I think that the £250 offered, for all the inconvenience 
and potential embarrassment, is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. So Im not 
asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. But Lloyds 
Bank PLC offer of £250 is fair and:
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay the £250 its offered, if its not already done so. 
Lloyds Bank PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Ayisha SavageOmbudsman