DRN-3609339
The complaint
Mr W complains about Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb (UK) Limited. Hes 
unhappy with the time taken to transfer money between his share dealing and ISA accounts, 
and also with the service he received when he subsequently complained.
What happened
Mr W holds a sharedealing account and an ISA with IWeb. He tried to transfer money to his 
ISA but mistakenly funded his sharedealing account. He then tried to transfer the funds to 
his ISA but subsequently found out it would take three working days. 
He then complained to IWeb and, in summary, expressed his concerns about the timescales 
and the lack of warning about how long a transfer would take - especially as it was close to 
the end of the tax year. Because of this, the funds hed tried to transfer were stuck in the 
system and he had to borrow money to make the transfer at a significant cost. 
IWeb didnt provide an answer to the complaint until Mr W chased them for a response some 
three months later. They investigated his concerns but didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong and therefore didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W wrote back to them and raised further 
concerns - he was unhappy with the time it had taken them to respond to his complaint. He 
also said he hadnt received a call or letter from them as theyd said in an email theyd sent 
him when hed chased up the complaint.
IWeb reinvestigated his complaint and issued a further response. They still didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong regarding the transfer. But they acknowledged that they hadnt called 
him or sent a letter as theyd said in their email. They apologised and offered £50 in 
compensation.
Mr W didnt accept their findings and after further correspondence with IWeb, he brought his 
complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators. She looked 
into his concerns but didnt think IWeb needed to take any further action. Mr W didnt agree 
and said, in summary: 
He wanted to know why he couldnt transfer money between accounts  especially 
as this was common practice across other firms. 
As he wasnt able to make an online transfer, IWeb should have done it during the 
live chat he had with them. 
He wanted to know why the complaints inbox wasnt monitored as hed been told it 
would have been. 
His emails had been ignored  specifically the emails of 3 April 2020 and 23 
September 2020. Hed also been promised callbacks that hadnt been made. 
IWeb lied to him in their email of 3 July 2020 regarding writing and speaking to him.
His main issues hadnt been addressed in IWebs first response letter.
He felt IWeb were essentially blackmailing him by insisting he accept £50 as full and 
final settlement which would deny him his rights to refer his complaint to this service 
 they would either get away with only having to pay £50 or hed have to wait many 
months to get an answer from us. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so Mr W asked for an Ombudsman 
to review the complaint. I issued a provisional decision earlier this month where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding this complaint. Id 
like to assure him that Ive read and considered everything hes told us. Im aware Ive 
summarised his complaint points in less detail than he has, but this simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
This service isnt the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our 
service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. Broadly speaking, we wont interfere with a 
commercial decision. Our role here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this 
complaint and check that IWeb followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by 
the regulator and any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly. 
Its not in dispute that Mr W made a mistake and paid funds to his sharedealing account 
instead of his ISA. Ive considered what hes said about the time taken to transfer the funds 
back to his ISA. I appreciate the points hes made, but the terms of the account he holds 
clearly state that withdrawing funds will take three working days. I accept that this could be 
faster but IWeb have made a commercial decision around how long it will take for 
withdrawals. And as Ive previously said, we generally wouldnt interfere with a commercial 
decision.
In usual circumstances, Mr W would have been able to contact IWeb and arrange for a 
transfer between accounts. However, due to the pandemic, there was widespread disruption 
which caused IWeb to reduce some of their services. Taking everything into account, I dont 
think this was unreasonable and from what Ive seen, IWeb havent done anything wrong 
regarding the transfer. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything more around this 
point. 
Ive then gone on to consider the service Mr W received after he made his complaint. The 
notes from the webchat he had with IWeb on 3 April 2020 show that he asked how to make 
his complaint and while different options were discussed, he was told that he should send an 
email and IWeb would arrange for the email inbox to be monitored. Mr W sent the email but 
received no response until he chased the matter up on 3 July 2020. 
He was then incorrectly told that hed received a letter and a call regarding the complaint  
IWeb later confirmed that this related to a complaint from April 2019, not the complaint Mr W 
had raised in April 2020. IWeb then sent Mr W their first final response letter where they 
didnt uphold his complaint. Mr W wrote to them and asked them to look into the matter 
again and consider what theyd said to him about the letter and call. 
IWeb then sent Mr W a further final response letter where they apologised for providing him 
with incorrect information and offered him £50 in compensation. There was further 
correspondence between both parties regarding the matter over the next few months and I can see that Mr W was offered a callback in December 2020 which doesnt appear to have 
been made. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the service that IWeb has provided Mr W with 
has been good enough. He was promised that someone would monitor the email inbox he 
was told to send his complaint to and this didnt happen, he was given incorrect information 
about receiving a call and a letter and was also promised a callback which doesnt appear to 
have been made. Having considered everything, I dont think £50 is sufficient. Instead, I 
think compensation of £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances given the poor 
service that Mr W has received.
Responses to my provisional decision
IWeb responded and asked me to clarify the evidence Id used to come to my decision. Mr 
W responded and agreed with what Id said. But he also asked me to reconsider his point 
about IWeb employing a strategy of making an award and only agreeing to pay it once the 
customer agrees it is in full and final settlement. He thought this was wrong for several 
reasons and believed the compensation should be increased further because of IWebs 
actions.
What Ive decided  and why Our complaints manager will yes
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in response to what IWeb have said, Ill firstly set out the key points 
from the evidence.
The webchat of 3 April 2020 shows that at 12:38 IWeb said If you send an email, we will 
arrange someone to monitor the mailbox to retrieve it. And the webchat from 17 December 
2020 shows that there was a discussion about someone calling Mr W, and at 11:13 Mr W 
asked .I still want your manager to review this Chat and call me. At 11:14 IWeb replied 
and said Our complaints manager will yes.
Neither action took place, so Im satisfied that £100 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr W suffered when taken into account with the incorrect information he was 
also given. 
Ive then considered the points Mr W has made about the offer that IWeb made. Id like to 
reiterate what I said in my provisional decision  this service isnt the regulator and we dont 
have the power to make rules for firms. I appreciate what hes said but I dont think its 
uncommon or unreasonable for a firm to make what they think is a fair offer in full and final 
settlement of a dispute. 
IWeb might have made him an offer, but they also rightly provided him with referral rights to 
this service if he didnt want to accept. So, I dont think I can fairly say theyve done anything 
wrong regarding this point and I remain of the opinion that £100 is fair compensation for the 
reasons Ive previously explained.
Putting things right
IWeb should pay Mr W £100 in compensation in recognition of the poor service theyve 
provided.My final decision
I uphold this complaint, Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb (UK) Limited should 
pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman