DRN-3247813
The complaint
Mr V complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited wrongly told him hed benefit 
from reduced stamp duty as a first-time buyer. 
What happened
Mr V had an offer accepted on a property and contacted Countrywide for mortgage advice in 
March 2021. He says he told Countrywide that he owned a property overseas and it told him 
hed still be treated as a first-time buyer in the UK. This meant hed benefit from reduced 
stamp duty rates. He later found out this was wrong. He had to pay stamp duty of about 
£6,000. 
Our investigator said it was likely Countrywide had given Mr V incorrect information about 
the amount of stamp duty hed have to pay. She said it should pay £150 for the 
inconvenience this caused. Countrywide agreed.
Mr V didnt agree. He said he has losses of about £8,000. Mr V says he was misinformed 
about stamp duty costs. Mr V said he had further concerns about the mortgage 
recommendation and the service provided by Countrywide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Countrywide did a fact find with Mr V. It recorded that he was a first-time buyer and didnt 
own any other properties. Mr V says he told Countrywide he had a property overseas, and 
Countrywide wrongly told him hed still be treated as a first-time buyer. This would have 
meant hed benefit from reduced stamp duty rates.
Countrywide says Mr V is responsible for providing correct information for the fact find, which 
said he was a first-time buyer. It says while its advisers encourage clients to put funds aside 
for purchase costs, it doesnt calculate the exact amount of stamp duty. However, an email 
to Mr V from the mortgage adviser suggests Countrywide did discuss stamp duty and Mr Vs 
circumstances, including that he already owned a property, with him. The email says I 
thought I would send you an email re our conversation about stamp dutywe were all under 
the impression that  you didnt have to pay the excess stamp duty as the property has no 
ties to the UK. I am sorry this is the case and sorry for the miscommunication and I cant 
apologise enough. This email was dated 7 May 2021. 
In response to the email, Mr V said he was considering not going ahead. 
Mr V had to pay stamp duty of about £6,000 rather than the £1,500 or even zero that he was 
expecting to pay. I appreciate how disappointed Mr V was to find out hed have to pay this 
amount of stamp duty. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Countrywide to pay 
compensation for the cost of the stamp duty. 
Mr V had to pay stamp duty in accordance with UK Government tax regulations in place at 
the time. Mr V didnt have to pay stamp duty because Countrywide made an error, and the 
amount of stamp duty wasnt increased because Countrywide made an error. The effect of 
Countrywides error was that Mr V didnt know at the outset how much stamp duty hed have 
to pay. 
I can appreciate that this put Mr V in a difficult position, having to decide whether to go 
ahead with his purchase despite the higher cost. This would have caused inconvenience, 
and I think its fair that Countrywide pays compensation for that.
In his complaint to Countrywide, Mr V said he was unhappy with delays to his application. 
This wasnt part of the complaint he brought to us, so I havent looked into that here. Mr V 
has told us about other concerns he has with the mortgage recommendation, the lenders 
charges and the service provided by Countrywide and the solicitor he says it appointed 
without informing him. Our rules say that we cant look into complaints until the business has 
had an opportunity to respond and put matters right. Mr V should raise these matters with 
Countrywide if he remains concerned. 
Putting things right
I think Countrywide gave Mr V incorrect information about whether he was a first-time buyer 
and the amount of stamp duty hed need to pay. This incorrect information didnt cause Mr V 
a financial loss  the stamp duty was due in accordance with relevant law and regulation.
Mr V hadnt exchanged contracts when he found out he had to pay stamp duty. So he wasnt 
legally obliged to go ahead with the purchase. And Mr V didnt yet have a mortgage offer, so 
it seems unlikely any confusion with the stamp duty caused a delay to the purchase. But I 
think its likely that the error did cause Mr V inconvenience. He had to look again at the 
purchase costs and decide whether to go ahead, despite the higher costs. I think 
compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, for the inconvenience 
this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Countrywide Principal Services Limited to 
pay £150 to Mr V.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman