DRN-3276935
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Aviva Life &
Pensions UK Limited, referred to as the business.
Theyre being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
In my provisional decision of 29 December 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable. In other words, I dont have the 
evidence to safely conclude that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mr and Mrs B wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required to 
do in order to reach a decision in this case.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, 
regulation and best industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Given the passage of time, Im not surprised that the business is unable to provide more 
information about the point of sale. Financial businesses arent required to retain information 
indefinitely so I cant blame the business for not being able to provide more information 
about the sale of a product that took place over 20 years ago.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont really know what Mr and Mrs Bs wider 
financial circumstances were at the point of sale in 2000 and their aims and objectives, so 
despite what the CMC says, Im unable to safely conclude that they werent willing to take a 
risk with their money. Im mindful that the CMCs proposed redress methodology (unlike the 
investigators redress methodology) suggests that Mr and Mrs B werent willing to take any 
risk at all  but I dont think thats correct.
I note Mr and Mrs B were married, had three dependent children, and a small outstanding 
mortgage. Based on what the CMC says Mrs B was working and Mr B was off work at the 
time for health reasons, but still in receipt of benefits. In any case, the latter doesnt 
automatically mean that they shouldnt have been advised to invest.
I note that Mr and Mrs B had access to a reasonable amount of funds  in the sum of 
£28,000  even before they received another £8,000 in inheritance money, making a total of 
£36,000. This doesnt suggest that they didnt have access to a reasonable amount funds at 
the time, or wouldnt continue to have, even after investing £10,000.
I also note that whilst they werent experienced investors, they/Mrs B wasnt a first-time 
investor either, having previously invested in something similar. So, in the circumstances I 
cant safely say that they ought not to have been advised to invest in a product they were 
broadly familiar with.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely say that Mr and Mrs B werent 
prepared to take a risk with their money, or that they were in any way risk averse as the 
CMCs proposed redress methodology would suggest, or that they werent in a reasonable 
position to invest. I note even after the investment they had access to a reasonable amount 
of money.
I note the CMC says that theres no evidence of a meaningful or in-depth assessment by the 
adviser of Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk. But given the passage of time, Im not surprised 
that there isnt more information available on this point. Just because there isnt more 
information, 20 years after the sale of the investment, doesnt automatically mean that there 
wasnt a reasonable assessment at the time.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that relevant questions were asked in order
conclude that they had a moderately secure attitude to risk, as suggested by the CMC, but
the business hasnt been able to provide any more guidance on this point.
Once again, given the passage of time, Im not surprised that there isnt more information 
available about this or where moderately secure falls on a scale of no risk to high risk, if that 
was indeed the range as suggested by the CMC.
I note the CMC says:
according to the current fund fact sheets of the Global Distribution Fund and Deferred 
Distribution Fund, the funds are both heavily invested into UK and overseas equities and 
property, contributing to 54.5% - 55% of the whole asset mix and making the funds at least 
medium risk. The asset class breakdown of the funds may had been different in the year 
2000, however you have not provided any evidence of this despite our requests.
Despite what the CMC says, I cant safely say that the recommendation was heavily 
invested in equities based on a recent fund fact sheet, or that it involved more risk than Mr 
and Mrs B were willing to take.
Im mindful that they kept the investment a year over the minimum required fixed term, which 
would suggest  albeit with the benefit of hindsight  that they didnt need the money, and 
werent unhappy with the advice they received. I also note that Mr and Mrs B made a gain on 
their investment, which I assume was in line with their expectation or they wouldve 
complained at the time.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Bs circumstances, I note there was nothing to suggest that he 
couldnt return to work following treatment. In any case, this doesnt automatically mean that 
he and Mrs B shouldnt have been advised to invest, if thats what they wanted to do. It might 
be that they felt it was all the more reason to invest the inheritance lumpsum for the future, 
rather than leave it in a savings account.There was also nothing to suggest that Mrs B would be out of work just because she was 
temping/doing contract work, Im mindful that she was working through an agency which was 
helping her to find work and there was nothing to suggest that work was running out.
Or, that Mrs B couldnt obtain a permanent position if thats what she wanted. But Im aware 
that for many people its a lifestyle choice and temp work suits them in the longer term 
especially if they have children. In the circumstances, I cant say Mrs B couldnt afford to 
invest just because she was temping or shouldnt have been advised to do so because of it.
In any case, I dont know what information the adviser had to hand or was given before the 
recommendation was made. Ive not seen a fact find or suitability letter to confirm why 
exactly Mr and Mrs B were made this recommendation. But this doesnt mean I can safely 
conclude the advice was unsuitable.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the (limited) available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give them what they want.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wanted me to consider before making my decision. 
The business didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
The CMC responded and in summary provided the following key points:
1. The investigators view suggested that the redress should be calculated using 
average rate from fixed rate bonds, which is the same as what the CMC suggested. 
My suggestion that it was different, isnt correct.  
2. Whilst it can see the point that I was making about Mr B being out of work, and that 
being a reason why he and Mrs B mightve wanted to invest, the latest evidence  in 
the form of a detailed account of their circumstances at the time  suggests they 
shouldnt have been advised to invest.  
3. Mr B was out of work and suffering from mental health issues at the time, although 
that wasnt the extent of his mental health issues. 
4. In the mid-80s Mr B had a serious accident which left him with long-term physical 
and mental health issues. He spent several months out of work and when he got 
back, he was unable to do the same job. In other words, hed returned to work early 
and didnt have any support. 
5. At the time of the advice, Mr B couldnt do what he previously did and there was no 
suggestion that this was likely to change.  
6. Mr B had attempted to take on light roles as a hobby income, but he couldnt work 
fulltime or make a meaningful contribution to the household income. 
7. When it was clear that Mr B couldnt work, Mrs B started temping. Whilst the 
mortgage and essential bills were covered by state/disability benefits, they needed 
Mrs Bs income to cover minor luxuries such as Christmas or the occasional holidays. 
8. By the time of the sale, Mrs Bs temp role would become permanent.
9. Mr and Mrs Bs savings at the time were built up slowly over many years. There was 
no quick or easy way to replace this money. 
10. The savings may appear to be significant, but this money was for the future in the 
event of any unexpected expenditure. 
11. Based on Mr and Mrs Bs recollection, this money shouldnt have been treated as 
funds they were able to gamble with. If lost, there was no reasonable prospect of 
recovering the money. 
12. Mr and Mrs B are happy to discuss further their clear and honest recollection of their circumstances at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, despite the points made by the CMC, my decision remains the same as set 
out in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
In other words, notwithstanding the points made by the CMC, I dont consider that any new 
material points have been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im still unable to
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable. In other words, I dont have the
evidence to safely conclude that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Im grateful to the CMC for conveying a detailed account of what Mr and Mrs B say were 
their circumstances at the time of sale. Whilst it has been useful to have this additional 
information, Im afraid it hasnt changed my decision. 
Despite the offer, I also dont think I need to speak to Mr and Mrs B, because everything that 
could reasonably be said, has been said by the CMC in response to my provisional decision. 
Im mindful of the CMCs comments regarding the redress suggested by the investigator. In 
my provisional decision I said: Im mindful that the CMCs proposed redress methodology 
(unlike the investigators redress methodology) suggests that Mr and Mrs B werent willing to 
take any risk at all  but I dont think thats correct. This was only an observation I made, I 
apologise if it was incorrect. It isnt a reason why Im not upholding this complaint so doesnt 
impact my decision.  
I appreciate the CMC says that if the appropriate questions were asked by the adviser, it 
wouldve been clear that Mr and Mrs Bs capital shouldnt have been gambled with. But an 
adviser can only advise based on the information supplied, if Mr and Mrs B didnt provide 
basic key information about their circumstances at the time, I cant blame the business for 
this. In any case, I dont believe their capital was gambled with, for reasons I will explain 
below.      
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say that their recollection is honest and clear but given the 
passage of time  some 20 years since the point of sale  I must be mindful that memories 
can fade, especially in relation to their interaction with the business.  
In 2000, almost a decade and a half since Mr Bs accident, I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
been aware of their circumstances at the time. Based on what they now say, I dont think 
their circumstances meant that they couldnt or shouldnt have been advised to invest at all, 
if thats what they wanted to do. On balance, Im satisfied that they did, and most likely made 
an informed decision to do so. Im mindful that theyd previously invested in a similar 
product. 
Based on what the CMC says, I note Mr and Mrs Bs small mortgage and essential bills were 
covered by various benefits, and money for minor luxuries such as holidays came from Mrs 
Bs income. I dont believe this meant they shouldnt have been advised to invest. Even if Mr and Mrs B saved up their money, slowly over a period by frugal spending/savings, 
by 2000 they still had available a sum of £36,000 from which they could comfortably invest 
£10,000. Despite what the CMC says, I dont believe this investment was akin to them 
gambling with their money. As I said in my provisional decision, I cant safely say that the 
recommendation was heavily invested in equities based on a recent fund fact sheet, or that 
it involved more risk than Mr and Mrs B were willing to take.
Despite what the CMC says, theres nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B wouldve needed 
their money within the term of the investment, or if they did  for any unexpected expenses  
that they didnt have access to a reasonable amount of funds, even after investing the 
£10,000. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs B kept the investment a year over the 
minimum required fixed term, which would suggest  albeit with the benefit of hindsight  
that they didnt need the money and werent unhappy with the advice they received. I also 
note that they made a gain on their investment, which I assume was in line with their 
expectation or they wouldve complained at the time.
Despite what the CMC says about Mrs B, there was no reason why she couldnt obtain 
permanent work if thats what she wanted. I note from the CMCs recent response Mrs B 
went on to take on a permanent position of employment.  
  
Whilst Ive still not seen a fact find or suitability letter to confirm why exactly Mr and Mrs B 
were made this recommendation, this doesnt mean I can safely conclude the advice was 
unsuitable.
On the face of the (limited) available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give Mr and Mrs B what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman