DRN-3727020
The complaint
Miss E complains that a car she took on hire purchase from Oodle Financial Services 
Limited was not of satisfactory quality. She thinks she should be able to reject it. 
What happened
In September 2021 Miss E entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. 
The car was around seven years old and had covered some 72,000 miles. The cash price 
attributed to it was £9,500. 
Within about a week Miss E contacted the dealership to report that the car did not always 
start and that its stop/start function was not operating properly. The dealership inspected the 
car and attached a battery booster. This, it said, resolved the problem  a flat battery  but it 
replaced the battery in any event. 
Miss E contacted Oodle and said that she was not happy and wanted to reject the car. She 
had not agreed to the battery being replaced. Oodle said that the need for a replacement 
battery did not mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality. A battery is a consumable 
item which needs replacing from time to time and, once a new battery had been fitted, there 
were no further issues with the car. 
Miss E referred the matter to this service. Oodle acknowledged that the battery had been 
replaced without Miss Es consent and offered her £100 in recognition of the inconvenience 
to which she had been put. Our investigator thought however that she had been fairly 
treated. The fact that the battery needed charging or replacing did not mean that the car was 
not of satisfactory quality or that Miss E had the right to reject it. Miss E did not accept that 
and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.          
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase contract was to be read as including 
a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable 
person would expect in all the circumstances, including the cars age, mileage and price. 
The Consumer Rights Act also provides that, where goods are not of satisfactory quality, a 
consumer can generally reject them within thirty days of supply. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case, I must have regard to any relevant law  
including the Consumer Rights Act. I must therefore consider whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality and, if it was not, whether it would be fair to require Oodle to accept Miss 
Es rejection of it. 
The car in this case was seven years old and its mileage was consistent with that. I would 
not expect it to be entirely fault-free. In particular, I think it likely that it might show signs of 
wear and tear and that some consumable components might need repair or even 
replacement. 
With that in mind, I do not believe that the fact that the battery needed to be charged meant 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality. It seems quite likely to me that, had the 
dealership charged it before the car was delivered to Miss E, there would have been no 
issue. Since it was in fact replaced, it is likely too that Miss E is in a better position than she 
would have been if the battery been charged.
The replacement battery appears to have resolved any issues with the car; that is, there is 
no suggestion that the battery needed replacing for any reason other than age and, perhaps, 
lack of use while the car was for sale. It follows in my view that the car was of satisfactory 
quality.  
Since I am satisfied that the car was not faulty, I do not need to consider whether rejection of 
it would be fair. For completeness, however, I think that replacement of a consumable 
component  the battery  would have been a fair remedy in this case.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to do anything further to resolve Miss Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman