DRN-4034399
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the service provided by Scottish Widows Limited trading as 
Clerical Medical. Mrs S is represented in her complaint by her son but, for ease of reading, 
Ill refer only to Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs Ss husband, Mr S, had a Personal Pension with Clerical Medical. Sadly, Mrs Ss 
husband (Mr S) died in October 2021. Mrs S emailed the death certificate to Clerical Medical 
on 12 November 2021. Clerical Medical began the process of paying out the policys benefit 
to her. However, the benefit had still not been paid in February 2022, so Mrs S complained 
to Clerical Medical.  
14 February 2022, Clerical Medical explained it would pay 8% interest from 
17 December 2021  when the benefits should have been paid until the date she received 
the funds. It also said it would pay £250 compensation to apologise for the delays. 
Clerical Medical also asked for another copy of Mr Ss death certificate and said it would pay 
£20 to cover the cost of sending it be recorded delivery. 
On 1 March 2022, Mrs S chased Clerical Medical for an update. It confirmed it had received 
the death certificate and would process the benefits claim, but said its bereavement team 
had a large back log. After receiving forms from Clerical Medical in early April, Mrs S had 
some questions for Clerical Medical. After these were discussed with Clerical Medical, the 
forms were returned to it on 20 May 2022. Mrs S didnt hear anything further, so she chased 
Clerical Medical again several times in July and August 2022. Each time, Clerical Medical 
said it would process the claim but failed to do so. Mrs Ss claim wasnt paid until 
6 September 2022. On 7 September 2022, Clerical Medical issued its final response to the 
complaint. It apologised for the delay and poor service experienced.  To acknowledge the 
delay in paying the policy benefits, it paid 8% interest on the benefits payment from 
17 December 2021, when the benefits should have been paid, to 6 September 2022. It also 
paid an additional £450 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delay. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs S referred her complaint to our Service. She said 
Clerical Medicals behaviour made it harder to deal with her bereavement. Mrs S said shes 
been mentally impacted by the frustration Clerical Medical caused and by its employees 
talking down to her. To put things right, Mrs S wanted an apology, compensation and for 
Clerical Medical to ensure other customers didnt suffer the same problems she did.
One of our Investigators reviewed Mrs Ss complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. Our 
Investigator thought Clerical Medical had done enough to put things right by paying Mrs S 
interest at 8% simple from the time she should have received the claim payment, on 
17 December 2021, until 6 September 2022. Our Investigator also thought the £700 
compensation paid by Clerical Medical fairly recognised the trouble and upset caused to 
Mrs S. Our Investigator explained we cant tell Clerical Medical to give Mrs S a plan about 
how it will stop other customers experiencing the same problems or change its processes. In 
response, Mrs S said Clerical Medical took far too long to process her claim, which had a 
significant impact on her health. So, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Services role here is to ensure Clerical Medical put things right 
for Mrs S. We dont have the power to tell Clerical Medical to change its processes so other 
customers dont experience the same problems. Only the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, has the power to punish Clerical Medical or force it to change how it operates.
Its not in dispute that Clerical Medical took too long to pay Mrs Ss bereavement claim. 
Clerical Medical identified the claim should have been paid on 17 December 2021, which  
was 25 working days after Mrs S sent her husbands death certificate. Given there were a 
few further steps in the claims process before a payment could be made, I dont think this 
date is unreasonable. Clerical Medical has already paid Mrs S interest at 8% simple from 
17 December 2022 until 6 September 2022, when she received the payment. This is what I 
would have asked Clerical Medical to do if it hadnt already done so  this is our approach to 
awarding compensation where a consumer has been without money they should have had. I 
also note Clerical Medical paid £20 to cover the cost of sending Mr Ss death certificate by 
recorded delivery, which seems reasonable.
I accept the delays have caused Mrs S a considerable amount of distress and significant 
inconvenience. I agree with Mrs S that this matter went on for many months longer than it 
should have, and its understandable this caused her further upset at an already difficult 
time. Clerical Medical has already paid Mrs S £700 compensation, which I think is in line with 
our usual approach to awarding compensation for distress or inconvenience in 
circumstances where a consumer has been caused distress and inconvenience by a 
problem thats taken many months to resolve. So, whilst I sympathise with Mrs S and the 
problems shes experienced, I dont think Clerical Medical needs to pay Mrs S any further 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont require Scottish Widows Limited trading as 
Clerical Medical to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023. 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman