DRN-3553438
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that their home insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited, unfairly 
declined their claim for a piece of their jewellery that was lost.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision in May 2022, in which I set out the following 
background information to the complaint and my provisional findings, as follows. 
Mrs M said she lost the diamond from her ring at home while stripping a room and removing 
a carpet. She made a claim to Fairmead and sent the receipt from the jeweller at £995. She 
said this was below the limit for specified items on the policy of £1,500. 
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters to handle the claim and requested a valuation to replace 
the diamond. This came to £2,800 and the loss adjusters declined the claim. Mrs M said she 
only expected to receive the cost of the ring and challenged the decline of the claim. 
Fairmead said the policy will only provide cover for high-risk items which are valued at 
£1,500 or more if the item is specified on the policy and the ring wasnt specified. It said the 
policy booklet sets out cover for contents within the home:
What is not covered
For any claim, regardless of cause, no cover is provided for: Any item [that] can be 
covered separately in this booklet:
High Risk Items  Worth £1,500 or more.
The policy is clear that jewellery is considered to be a high-risk item and the limit for 
unspecified individual items is £1,500. Mr and Mrs Ms policy states:
If you have items worth more than the above limits or if youd like to protect them 
away from the home, youll need to specify them otherwise theyre not covered.
Specified items within the Home
You have not specified any items to be covered within the Home.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Fairmead about the claim decision. In the final response on 
behalf of Fairmead the insurer said the item should have been specified but wasnt and so 
isnt covered under the policy and it was fair for it to decline the claim in full.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He said it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline the claim 
as the ring hadnt been specified as required by the policy for high-risk items.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigator. Mrs M said she had taken legal advice and while she 
understood she couldnt claim for the full price of replacing the diamond, as she hadnt 
realised the diamond had increased so much in value, she should be able to reclaim the 
original cost of her ring. Mr and Mrs M requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
My provisional findings
Contents insurance covers the cost of repairing or replacing items in the home if they are 
damaged, stolen or lost due to an unforeseen event. And so, it is understandable that Mrs M 
expected to be covered for the loss of the stone from her ring. However, payment of a claim 
is determined by the terms of the policy which generally include limits, and its clear theres a 
limit within Mr and Mrs Ms policy for lost items that are considered to be high-risk. 
Fairmead said that although Mrs Ms ring was bought for £995 the replacement of the stone 
and repair was quoted to be £2,800 and should have been specified in their policy. The 
policy states that For any claim, cover isnt provided for: Any item not listed within Your 
Policy Document. Fairmead said that no error was made on their side. It said it had acted in 
line with the terms of the policy by declining the claim.
Mrs M said her policy isnt a new for old policy and so she only wants the cost of the lost 
diamond from when it was purchased. Mr and Mrs Ms policy is an indemnity policy. That 
means the insurer is supposed to put the policyholder back in the position they were in just 
before the loss happened, not just meet the original cost of the lost item. The policy states 
that it provides New for old replacements. 
Mrs M has showed the original cost of the ring was £995. But this was 18 years before its 
loss. Its to be expected that precious stones and metal would increase in value over time 
and Mrs M is aware of this. However, in the absence of an up to date valuation she wasnt 
aware of quite how much it had increased in value. 
Given the value now applied to the stone and fixing the ring, its clear Mr and Mrs M were 
under-insured when it was lost. The cover to protect high-risk items is optional and the policy 
requires insured items to be specified. If the sum insured has changed since the item was 
purchased and is now under-insured, we look at how clear the insurer explained what was 
necessary in terms of valuation - and also if the consequences of not doing so were clear. 
Ive looked at the policy and renewal documents. Fairmead requests policyholders to Check 
the cover limits to make sure Youve requested adequate levels of cover. But I havent 
found any advice to obtain valuations of high-risk items or to review the cost of replacement. 
I dont think check the cover can be reasonably be expected to mean that Mr and Mrs M 
should have arranged a professional valuation in advance of their application or renewal of 
the policy. If this was expected by Fairmead it should have been explained to Mr and Mrs M. 
The policy goes on to explain that if the sum insured isnt enough the policyholder is under-
insured and a claim will be settled proportionately. It also states that certain types of cover 
have an individual specific limit, which is the maximum Fairmead would pay on a claim. Both 
the proportionate settlement and the settlement to a specified limit, such as £1,500 for high-
risk items, are very different from Fairmeads total rejection of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. 
So, I dont think the policy was completely clear on the important points about obtaining up to 
date valuations and the full consequences of not doing so. Also, I dont think policyholders 
are generally experienced in calculating the values of their items - so it can be difficult for 
them to estimate whether they should be specified. In Mr and Mrs Ms case I dont think they 
should have been expected to know that Mrs Ms ring had more than doubled in value.Incidentally, Fairmead make provision for the increased value of an item while its insured. 
We will treat You fairly if the value of an item changes during the Period of Insurance. For 
example, if the price of gold were to suddenly double during the life of the policy, we would 
take this into account at point of claim. I realise that Mrs Ms ring would have increased in 
value largely before the policy started and during the policy, but the policy indicates a fair 
approach to increases, which the complete rejection of the claim goes against.
Having considered the policy and circumstances of the claim, I currently dont think its fair 
for Fairmead to refuse any payment for Mrs Ms ring. I think it would be fair for it to pay her 
claim to the level for high-risk items. I dont think it would be fair to require Fairmead to pay 
the full value for the ring as had a high-risk item of this value been specified on the policy the 
premium to Mr and Mrs M is likely to have been greater. Payment of the claim to the high-
risk item limit for unspecified items is consistent with the approach our service has taken in 
other similar cases and I currently think it is fair in the circumstances of this case.
My provisional decision and the parties responses
I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint and require Fairmead to pay Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim for the damaged ring and lost precious stone to the policy limit for unspecified high-risk 
items of £1,500, less any applicable policy excess. I also thought Fairmead should pay Mr 
and Mrs M £100 for the inconvenience and upset caused to Mrs M by its unfair decision on 
her claim.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr and Mrs M said they had no further comment to 
make. Fairmead indicated that a response would be made, but theres been no response or 
a request for more time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered this complaint and the relevant policy terms, and having done so I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Ms claim for the damaged ring and lost 
precious stone to the policy limit for unspecified high-risk items of £1,500, less any 
applicable policy excess. I also require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused to Mrs M by its unfair decision 
on her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman