DRN-1251132
 
complaint
Mrs B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The PPI was added to Mrs 
Bs credit card account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Where there isnt much evidence or theres contradictory evidence for me to consider, I need 
to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I 
do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
The postal application Mrs B completed had a box to tick if Mrs B wanted the policy. Had she 
not wanted the policy Mrs B could have not ticked the box. In Mrs Bs application, the box for 
the PPI has been ticked. So Im persuaded that Mrs B chose to take the PPI knowing she 
didnt have to.
The sale was non-advised so RBS didnt have to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Bs 
needs. RBS did have to provide information to Mrs B that was enough to help her make an 
informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
Its possible that the information RBS gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Mrs B wouldve still bought the policy anyway if better information 
was given. I say this because:
Ive considered what Mrs B told us about her circumstances when she took out the 
PPI. From this I think she was eligible for the cover the policy offered. And I dont 
think she was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations in the terms. I think Mrs B could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mrs Bs 
initial sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months such that she might 
have had to rely on her modest savings for support. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay Mrs B may have been entitled to and would have paid 
10% of the card balance for up to 12 months in the event of long term ill health, or if 
she lost her job. So, I think shed have thought the policy offered some potentially 
useful cover. 
 
So I dont think that Mrs B has lost out as a result of anything that RBS may have done 
wrong.
Mrs B told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the MPPI. I have no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mrs B only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
Mrs Bs representatives told us that because the cost information was not as clear as it could 
have been, maybe Mrs B thought this policy was free of charge. Ive noted the statements 
that RBS has sent in and considered that the cost of the cover shows up quite clearly on 
them from early on. So, if Mrs B had thought the policy cost nothing, I think her statements 
would have alerted to her to the fact there was a cost to the cover and shed have, most 
likely, raised this as a matter of complaint to RBS many years before she eventually did. 
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman