DRN-2705471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service provided by Amtrust Europe Limited in relation to 
the claim theyd made for legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
The policy is in joint names, but for ease of reading and as hes done most of the 
correspondence on the complaint, Ill mostly just refer to Mr B.
  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr B purchased a newbuild home and following significant problems with it he wanted to 
take legal action against the developer that had sold the property. In late 2019 he made a 
claim to Amtrust who provided his LEI. After seeking further information from Mr B Amtrust 
asked a panel solicitor M to assess the claim. 
By July 2020 M still hadnt been able to access all the information Mr B had sent them on a 
USB drive. Mr B raised this with Amtrust who arranged for a different panel firm L to take 
over the claim. By August 2020 L had the information they required to complete their 
assessment. 
Mr B complained to Amtrust, he was unhappy with the service hed received. Amtrust upheld 
his complaint in part. They pointed out that they arent responsible for the service provided 
by solicitors (who have their own regulator and ombudsman scheme), but they accepted 
they should have been more pro-active in their approach to assisting Mr B with M. They 
maintained theyd followed the correct process with the claim but offered Mr B £200 
compensation for the impact of any delays. Their final response to the complaint confirmed I 
am willing to offer you the ex-gratia sum of £200 in full and final settlement of your 
complaint.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. In 
summary she didnt think Amtrust needed to do more. She thought their offer was more than 
fair. Mr B said he would be happy to accept the £200 but not on the terms that Amtrust had 
said. Our investigator tried to clarify upon what terms Mr B would be willing to accept the 
offer but wasnt able to confirm this. Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Let me 
explain why. 
Amtrust arent responsible for the actions of solicitors (even those appointed under the 
policy). Our investigator has already shared details for the Legal Ombudsman if Mr B 
remains unhappy with the conduct of any of the solicitors involved but that isnt something I 
can comment on. 
In the circumstances here, Amtrust generally did as Id expect. They sought further 
information from Mr B to confirm that a policy term in relation to a dispute being covered by 
other insurance didnt apply. They then arranged for a panel solicitor to assess the claim. 
When Mr B expressed dissatisfaction with the first firm of solicitors, they arranged for a 
replacement firm. 
Ultimately Amtrust accepted they could have been more pro-active in assisting Mr B in his 
dealings with M. But overall, Im not persuaded this had a significant impact on Mr B. That 
isnt to say I dont appreciate that having a long running dispute about a newly purchased 
home must have been incredibly stressful. But I cant fairly ask Amtrust to compensate Mr B 
for all the stress this matter caused him. I have to isolate (as far as is possible) the impact of 
any service failings that Amtrust are responsible for. And in that context, I agree that their 
offer of £200 is more than reasonable in the circumstances. 
It isnt entirely clear whether Mr B is unhappy with the settlement being referred to as being 
in full and final settlement of his dispute with Amtrust. But this complaint is about the delays 
and service provided (rather than the outcome of the claim itself). If Mr B doesnt wish to 
accept my decision it wont be legally binding and he will be free to continue his dispute with 
Amtrust through other avenues (such as the courts) should he wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Unless theyve already done so, Amtrust Europe Limited must pay Mr and Mrs B £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman