DRN-3607272
Summary of the complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited will not refund losses he says he incurred when 
falling victim to an investment scam. 
The particulars of this case are well known to the parties, so I wont detail them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the material events and the key reasons for reaching my decision. This 
is not a discourtesy to Mr O or Starling; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
In summary, Mr O ventured into what he thought at the time was a legitimate investment 
opportunity with a company named Commerce Wealth Ltd (Commerce Wealth). As part of 
this, he made a series of online debit card payments, amounting to around £46,000. 
These began in September 2020 and were made across the following few months. However, 
in December 2020, Mr O thought hed been scammed. He began to think Commerce Wealth 
were a fraudulent outfit and there had been no investments made.  
Mr O raised a complaint with Starling, citing that it ought to have done more to protect the 
account. He also claimed that the bank should have recovered the payments under a 
process known as chargeback. 
Starling didnt uphold the complaint in respect of refunding the payments, maintaining that it 
had followed due process throughout. It did, however, award some compensation for how it 
corresponded with Mr O once he reported the suspected scam. 
When Mr O referred the complaint to our service, one of our investigators concluded that 
Starling could not reasonably be expected to reimburse Mr O, nor increase the 
compensation it put forward. Because Mr O disagrees, the matter has been escalated to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, Ive considered Mr Os claim that Commerce Wealth was operating as a 
fraudulent outfit and that he was scammed out of the c.£46,000 being disputed here. 
The investigator and Starling have seemingly reached common ground that Mr O was 
scammed. Based on the evidence available about Commerce Wealth and the prevailing 
circumstances, I accept that this may have happened. 
I acknowledge that, the UK regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued a 
warning about this firm shortly after Mr O made the last of the disputed transactions. This set 
out that Commerce Wealth had been identified as acting without FCA authorisation. 
Mr O has also provided copies of email correspondence that he received from agents of this 
business, which he says led him to making the payments. Still, while I acknowledge the 
possibility that Mr O was the victim of fraud, I think this is far from certain. 
Its evident Mr O asked Starling about an incoming payment for around £22,000 via its online 
chat service in October 2020. He questioned whether the money was going to be received 
and, when Starling asked the name of the business paying him this sum, Mr O clearly 
answered Commerce Wealth. 
Mr O told Starling this money was coming from his trade account which he was sending 
back to Starling. I can also see the reference number he gave bank staff at the time matches 
the one presented on his statement when this money was in fact received.  
I find it highly irregular for a so-called fraudulent scheme to return almost half of the funds 
that its said to have stolen. Suffice to say, to pay back such a large portion of the money 
taken is at odds with a scam, which normally tries to extract as much money as possible. 
Besides, Mr Os messages to the bank expressly say that he had instructed the money be 
paid out of his trading account and be sent to Starling; he made it very clear he had remitted 
the money and he had been able to control it to the extent that it could be sent back. 
Mr O did not include this evidence in his submission to our office. Which I find somewhat 
surprising, given that the nature of his complaint concerns his account movements and that 
Starling ought to have been disconcerted about certain activity taking place. 
But even if Im wrong about what this payment entailed, and I proceed on the basis that 
these disputed transactions were indeed the consequence of fraud, I am still not satisfied its 
fair or reasonable to require Starling to refund them.    
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account the relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something wasnt 
right about the circumstances surrounding a transaction.
It therefore can be a reasonable expectation for a bank to double-check payment 
instructions that ought reasonably to trigger concerns as to whether they are unusual or 
uncharacteristic for a consumer.
Having considered the particular circumstances of this case, I do not think it would be 
reasonable to expect Starlings systems to have been triggered by the authorised payments 
in dispute. There is a lack of persuasive evidence that these transactions were significantly 
unusual or uncharacteristic compared with Mr Os normal account activity in recent times.
Starling was not presented with Commerce Wealth as a payee, as the payments were made 
to varying different entities which I understand are registered overseas (and Mr O says were 
colluding with Commerce Wealth). This means I cannot consider whether Starling ought to 
have regarded an intention to pay Commerce Wealth as suspicious.
The beneficiaries that were paid were created as new payees  but this was not uncommon 
for the account. Mr O had made payments to recipients not paid before. The statements 
demonstrate a variety of different purchases. It wasnt uncharacteristic for Mr O to pay out to 
multiple payees, or to remit money to the same payee more than once on the same day. 
It was also commonplace for Mr O to credit the Starling account and pay funds out in quick 
succession to new places, which was precisely what happened with the initial disputed 
transactions. Ive also borne in mind that, because of the varying incomings and outgoings, there is not 
necessarily a marked pattern with how Mr O typically transacted on the account. And the 
disputed payments held characteristics comparable to his prior spending; they were all made 
online (in keeping with Mr Os tendency) and they followed a course of credits. 
I accept that there were instances where the payment values may have been larger than 
some of Mr Os previous expenditure. I also appreciate that, in total, Mr O says he has lost 
over £46,000  which is a significant amount of money. 
Even so, this was spread over more than a dozen separate increments, spanning a period of 
three months or so. Mr O regularly made payments out of the account in multiples of a 
thousand pounds, which is what Starling could reasonably be expected to compare against. 
Making a large payment was not a clear deviation from how the account was usually run. 
So, I am not persuaded the transactions in contention represented a sudden change to the 
regular operation of the account. Nor, did they reflect a distinct increase in spending  
especially, when balanced against what was paid in around the same time. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not satisfied that there were sufficient grounds for 
Starling to suspect fraud or a scam, and therefore justify an intervention. 
I must also bear in mind that there is a balance to be struck between identifying transactions 
that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
Delaying a payment instruction could lead Starling to breach the relevant regulations.
Finally, I do not consider that Starling ought to have acted differently with regard to 
chargeback. Based on the card scheme rules, which are the deciding factor, Im not 
convinced these payments met the requisite criteria to warrant a successful claim.
I understand that Starling did make a payment of £50 compensation  with Mr O submitting 
he believes more like £400 is due, given the timeliness and content of some of the banks 
communication. In the circumstances, I find that the sum Starling has already put forward to 
be proportionate to the impact caused. Therefore, I do not require it to increase this award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman