DRN-4296172
The complaint
Miss K complains about repairs carried out on her vehicle by AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited (AA) after making a claim on her car insurance policy.
Any reference to AA in this final decision includes its respective agents unless specified 
otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
Miss K made a successful claim on her AA car insurance policy for cosmetic damage 
caused to her insured vehicle. Repairs were carried out by AAs approved repairer 
(Company B). But upon completion, Miss K says she experienced problems with her 
engine and was unhappy with the quality and finish of the cosmetic repairs.
AA arranged for Miss Ks vehicle to be inspected by an independent technician 
(Technician C) who found cosmetic defects that would need to be rectified by AA. 
They also advised that Miss K take the vehicle to the manufacturer dealership to 
carry out diagnostic checks in relation to the engine issues  the results of which 
could be reassessed by AA pending the outcome.
The manufacturer dealership advised Miss K that the engine in the vehicle didnt 
match the V5 registered part  suggesting this had been swapped. They noted the 
engine bolts and suspension bolts showed signs of being tampered with and that the 
headlamp and oil filter were not the original registered parts either.
Miss K complained to AA that Company B had tampered with her vehicle, leaving her 
with a car that wasnt roadworthy or fit for purpose. She wanted AA to cover the cost 
of rectifying her car back to the condition she says it was in before its repairers 
worked on it. 
On receipt of this information, AA appointed another third-party (Technician D) to 
carry out an independent assessment. While they agreed the parts in question 
appeared to have changed from their original fittings, date stamped images from 
Company B showed the headlamp issue predated repairs. And there was nothing to 
suggest the oil filter and engine changes had been recent. 
As a result, Technician D concluded that it couldnt confirm a timeframe of when the 
changes may have happened and therefore liability.
AA therefore concluded the engine, headlamp and oil filter werent related to 
Company Bs activity and so didnt uphold this part of the complaint. But it upheld the 
points regarding the cosmetic work and agreed to cover the costs of rectification 
works to these areas. Unhappy, Miss K brought a complaint to this Service regarding 
AAs refusal to carry out (or cover the cost of) the necessary repairs to her engine.
Our Investigator agreed that Company B hadnt carried out the cosmetic repairs to an 
acceptable standard. So, on receipt of an invoice from Miss K totaling £1,940 for the 
costs to rectify these works, she recommended that AA pay Miss K the invoice 
amount. 
But she didnt find there was sufficient evidence to show that Company B was 
responsible for the alleged engine change, so she didnt ask AA to do anything 
further in relation to this. 
Miss K disagreed with the Investigators findings and asked for more time to submit 
further evidence to support her testimony of events. Several extensions to timescales 
were therefore given. But nothing that Miss K sent to the Investigator changed her 
mind. The case has therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure the parties that Ive read and considered all the information provided in reaching 
my decision. But in line with my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome 
is, my findings will be summarised to focus on what is relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The matter that appears to be left in dispute in this case is the issue with Miss Ks 
vehicle engine. The parties seem to agree that this was likely changed at some point 
from the original registered part but disagree on who is responsible for this.
Essentially, Ive not seen any evidence in this case that definitively states when the 
engine was changed or who by. I therefore need to consider what most likely 
happened based on the information that is available at this stage.
Miss K says AA are at fault because the issues in question started almost 
immediately after she collected her vehicle from Company B post repair. Prior to this 
she says her car was well kept and had a full service and MOT history to back this.
Miss K says this is further supported by emails from her service and MOT garage 
and the dealership where she purchased the vehicle which state that engine changes 
werent carried out by them, nor was there a record of the previous owners doing so. 
So, in Miss Ks opinion, the changes mustve taken place while in Company Bs care. 
Company B dispute this. And AA says this is supported by the independent findings 
of Technician D, noting their point that the changes didnt appear to be recent as the 
majority of fixings required to be removed as part of the removal process appeared 
untouched.
Its my understanding that our Investigator also spoke with the manufacturer 
dealership, who, based on the current information, couldnt rule out engine changes 
taking place prior to Miss K purchasing the vehicle  only that they have no 
knowledge of this, and it wasnt changed by the dealership or the manufacturer.
Ive considered both parties submissions carefully. And on balance of what Ive seen, 
Im not persuaded that AA is responsible for the alleged engine change or the issues 
Miss K is experiencing with said engine.
I say this because, while the parties Miss K has consulted on the matter so far have 
said they didnt carry out the change, theyve not given reasonable comment as to 
who most likely did or when. And as set out above, it cannot be ruled out at this stage 
that the change couldve taken place prior to Miss K purchasing the vehicle and so 
prior to it ever being in Company Bs care. 
Add to this the independent opinion of Technician D, its my opinion on balance of what Ive seen, that there simply isnt enough evidence in this case to say that AA 
has done anything wrong with regards to Miss Ks car engine. It follows based on the 
information available at this stage, I dont uphold this part of Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K has said shes appointed her own investigator to gather further evidence in 
relation to the matter. AA should fairly consider any further evidence that Miss K 
provides. And, depending on the circumstances, AA should at that point consider 
whether theres more for it to do. But as of now, I wont be directing AA to do 
anything further in relation to this for the reasons already explained.
AA accepts that the cosmetic repairs carried out by Company B werent to an 
acceptable standard and so agreed to cover the costs of works to rectify this. Im 
satisfied this is a fair resolution to this part of Miss Ks complaint.
Both of AAs technicians set out an itemised list of the applicable rectification works. 
And Miss K provided our Investigator with an invoice for these works from a repairer 
of her choice totaling £1,940. AA should therefore pay this amount to Miss K if it 
hasnt done so already.
I understand that AA offered £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss K as a result of these works being required post repair. This seems 
fair in the circumstances. AA should pay this to Miss K if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited must:
Pay Miss K £1,940* for the rectification works required on her vehicle if it hasnt done 
so already.
Pay Miss K £100* compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
*AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Miss K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman