DRN-3459900
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited didnt carry out proper affordability checks before 
it approved his application for a credit card and subsequent credit limit increases. 
What happened
In June 2018 Vanquis approved a credit card application for Mr B with a limit of £150. In 
March 2019 it increased Mr Bs credit limit to £550. 
Mr B says that Vanquis shouldnt have agreed to lend to him. He says he had been declared 
bankrupt, had a county court judgement (CCJ) against his name and had defaulted on other 
borrowing. So, he complained to Vanquis. 
Vanquis looked into the matter. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
properly assessed Mr Bs ability to repay the debt taking into account his financial history. It 
added that as a second chance lender, it operates a low and grow lending model  
providing customers with a low credit limit and only increasing it when they have shown they 
can manage the account well.  
Mr B didnt agree, and he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint. But she thought Vanquis had done sufficient checks at the time 
the credit limits were approved.  
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said that he was still in bankruptcy 
when the original lending was agreed, and that hed missed payments and was close to his 
limit before the credit limit was increased. He also said that hed had a similar complaint 
upheld. 
The investigator considered this, but she didnt think it changed the outcome she had 
reached given the circumstances of this particular case. 
Mr B still didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
Having reviewed the complaint, I can see Mr B also raised concerns about a payment 
deferral request and subsequent default. This matter has been dealt with separately. So, for 
clarity, this decision solely relates to whether Vanquis treated Mr B fairly when it approved 
Mr Bs credit card application and subsequently increased his credit limit.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I appreciate 
Mr B will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Lenders, including credit card providers such as Vanquis, are under a duty before agreeing 
to lend, to assess the ability of the borrower to repay any money they borrow. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit. 
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments. 
- The duration of the agreement. 
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances at the time. 
But ultimately, there is no set list of checks a lender must complete. So, for example, a 
lender isnt necessarily required to ask for payslips or bank statements.
 
Here, Vanquis has provided evidence of the information it gathered when it approved Mr Bs 
credit card application and when it increased his limit. And Ive reviewed the information 
carefully to decide if it did sufficient checks.
Mr B applied for the credit card on-line. And I can from his application that he told Vanquis 
he was full-time employed with an income around £29,000 per annum. I accept the credit 
search Vanquis completed showed that Mr B had previously experienced some financial 
problems, and this would have meant he had a low credit score. But that doesnt necessarily 
mean Vanquis should have declined Mr Bs credit card application. Vanquis provides credit 
to consumers who have had previous financial problems. It initially provides a low starting 
credit limit which may be increased if the account holder maintains the account satisfactorily.  
I can see that Mr B had previously been made bankrupt, but the information indicates he had 
been discharged from bankruptcy before he applied for this credit card. And while I can also 
see Mr B had previously defaulted on other borrowing and had a CCJ on his credit file, this 
all pre-dated the credit card application by over 14 months. And the minimum monthly 
payment Mr B was required to pay with a credit limit of £150 was £10 per month. So, taking 
all the above into account, Im satisfied that Vanquis did sufficient checks when it approved a 
very modest credit limit of £150.
And from what Ive seen it doesnt appear that Mr Bs financial circumstances had changed 
when the limit was increased. I note Mr B has said he had missed payments and was always 
close to his limit. But having looked at the further credit search results that Vanquis obtained 
in March 2019 and Mr Bs Vanquis credit card statements leading up to the credit limit 
increase, I dont entirely agree with Mr Bs recollections. 
The credit search data from 2019 shows that Mr Bs financial situation hadnt deteriorated 
since the credit card was initially approved. His overall indebtedness had reduced, and no 
further accounts had been defaulted. I appreciate that Mr B has shown he was utilising pay 
day lending. But from what Ive seen  during the time frame of this complaint, Mr B was 
meeting his commitments in that respect. And most of this type of borrowing was either 
taken around the same time as the Vanquis credit/limit increase or later. 
Mr B has provided information to show that he subsequently went on to struggle to repay 
some of this borrowing. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that these lenders had 
reported any adverse information to the credit reference agencies at the point Vanquis did it 
credit searches.  
And Mr Bs Vanquis statements show that he regularly paid more than the minimum 
payment required between June 2018 and March 2019. At the time his limit it was increased 
Mr B owed Vanquis around £79 against the £150 credit limit. And Vanquis records indicate 
since being approved for the card Mr B had - on average, utilised 75% of his credit limit. I can see that Mr B did - on a couple of occasions, exceed his limit. But this was by no more 
than £2.13. And I can also see this was rectified when the monthly statement was produced. 
So, like the investigator, Im persuaded this was more of a result of a miscalculation rather 
than financial difficulties at this time.
As a whole, it does appear that Mr B was generally managing his finances satisfactorily at 
the time the limit was increased. And the increased monthly repayment required after the 
increase was still modest at around £30 per month when compared to an annual income of 
£29,000. And it was less than Mr B had been able to pay in the months previously. So, Im 
persuaded that Vanquis did enough checks when it agreed to increase the credit limit to 
£550. 
I can see things started to go wrong for Mr B from February 2020. I understand this 
coincides with an injury Mr B suffered which prevented him from working. And he was later 
impacted by the pandemic. And I do sympathise with Mr B about his injury and how this and 
the pandemic impacted on his ability to work. But it seems to me that Mr Bs Vanquis 
borrowing became unaffordable when he stopped working rather than the credit card and 
subsequent limit increase being provided irresponsibly. Im satisfied that his change of 
circumstances happened sometime after his credit limit was increased. And Vanquis had no 
way of knowing at the time it approved his credit card and limit increase how Mr Bs personal 
circumstances might change. 
Ive noted Mr Bs comments about similar case being upheld. But that complaint related to a 
different type of borrowing which had different terms of repayment and costs. So, while the 
complaint points raised are similar, the circumstances are different. And I need to decide this 
case on its individual circumstances.    
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis did enough checks at the time it approved a credit card for 
Mr B and when it increased the credit limit.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman