DRN-2953938
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) unfairly declined their 
travel insurance claim.  
References to URV in this decision include its agents and/or those acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a travel insurance policy with URV. In 2019, whilst they were on holiday in 
Spain, Mr S became unwell. He was seen by a doctor at his hotel, but went on to be taken to 
hospital by ambulance; where he was diagnosed with a suspected twisted intestine and told 
he needed emergency surgery. 
However, the hospital said it didnt have the facilities to perform the surgery. So it transferred 
Mr S to another hospital, which Ill now call the private hospital, where he underwent 
surgery and was admitted into intensive care. 
The private hospital notified URV of Mr Ss claim, and after a few days he was transferred to 
a public hospital to continue his recovery. The medical bill from the private hospital (which is 
in excess of 21,000€) is the subject of this complaint.
URV considered Mr and Mrs Ws claim and, initially, said it didnt think the private hospital 
had entered into a valid agreement with Mr S prior to treating him. URV said it had disputed 
the amount that had been billed, and that it would only accept liability for any debt that was 
established to be due. 
URV also asked Mr and Mrs S to send it any correspondence they might go on to receive 
from the private hospital. But having sought their own legal advice, Mr and Mrs S paid the 
private hospitals bill, and told URV theyd done so because they were being chased for the 
debt and threatened with legal action. 
In response, URV confirmed that it would pay Mr and Mrs S full settlement of the claim within 
a few days. However, it subsequently changed its position on that decision and told Mr and 
Mrs S that private treatment wasnt covered under their policy and they should have 
contacted URV before paying the bill. 
Mr and Mrs S complained. But URV maintained its position, so they referred their concerns 
to this service. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened, but before they had given an opinion on 
matters, URV paid Mr and Mrs S £10,000. URV told this service that its payment was to help 
Mr and Mrs S recover their loss, and it also offered to help Mr and Mrs S pursue legal action 
in Spain. 
However, despite the above, our investigator didnt think URV had acted fairly. And they 
recommended URV settled the claim in full, plus 8% simple interest, for these reasons:
URV hadnt been contacted when Mr S was taken to hospital, but it was an 
emergency situation at the time and hed remained in intensive care afterwards, so 
the initial lack of contact wasnt considered unreasonable. Even if Mr and Mrs S had 
contacted URV at the time, he was treated as an emergency and there was no 
evidence to demonstrate he would have been able to be treated at a public hospital. 
Mr and Mrs S should have contacted URV when Mr S was discharged from the 
private hospital, but at that point his costs had already been incurred, and as hed 
gone on to move to a public hospital any further costs had been mitigated. 
Mr and Mrs S should have contacted URV before paying the hospital bill, but there 
wasnt any evidence to show this had prejudiced URVs position because URV had 
confirmed the bill wasnt inflated. And, although itd argued there hadnt been a valid 
contract between Mr S and the private hospital, Mr S had agreed to the treatment, 
hed signed consent forms to confirm that, and the treatment had gone ahead. So, a 
valid contract did appear to have been in place. 
URV had a responsibility to settle the claim and could look to recover its costs from 
the private hospital directly if it wanted to do so.
Mr and Mrs S agreed with that recommendation, but URV did not. 
URV reiterated its position of there being no valid contract between Mr S and the private 
hospital. It said Mr and Mrs S didnt have to pay the hospitals bill, and it had been unable to 
advise them not to because of the lack of contact. It also said the Spanish healthcare system 
was free, Mr S should have been taken to a public hospital, and it was likely the hotel had 
received a fee for referring Mr S to a private facility. 
So, as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I know URV will be disappointed by this, I will be upholding 
this complaint for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, URV has a responsibility to consider claims 
both promptly and fairly, and it must not reject them unreasonably.
The contact with URV
Mr and Mrs Ss policy says that, in the event of a serious emergency, they should call an 
ambulance and then contact URV for advice. Mr and Mrs S did not contact URV at the point 
Mr S was initially taken to hospital in an ambulance. Nor did they contact it at the point Mr S 
was transferred to the private hospital for surgery and admitted into intensive care. I accept 
this was not in line with the terms of their policy, but given the timeline of events in this 
complaint and Mr Ss health being treated as an emergency, Im not persuaded it would 
have been reasonable to expect him or Mrs S to contact URV during that time. 
I do think Mr and Mrs S could, and should, have contacted URV at the point Mr S was 
discharged from the private hospital. But at this point Mr Ss treatment had already taken 
place, and the costs relating to it would have already been incurred. 
I recognise both Mr and Mrs S and URV encountered difficulties in trying to contact one 
another during this claim. But Im not persuaded that URVs position was prejudiced because 
of the lack of initial contact from Mr and Mrs S. The admission into a private hospital
Mr and Mrs Ss policy does not cover the costs of private treatment, unless notified to and 
agreed by URV, and URV remains concerned that Mr S was taken to a private hospital for 
reasons of financial gain  as part of a tourist trap. It thinks Mr S should have been taken to 
a public hospital and suspects the hotel received a fee for Mr Ss admission into a private 
facility. 
I appreciate URVs position here and realise the serious nature of the allegations it has 
made here, but aside from its testimony, I havent been provided with any persuasive 
evidence to substantiate URVs concerns. 
For example, URV hasnt shown me that the doctor who first saw Mr S at his hotel, or the 
hospital staff that later made the decision to transfer him to a private facility, acted illegally or 
unethically. It hasnt shown me any evidence of a relationship or collusion between the hotel 
and the private hospital. And it hasnt shown me evidence of it pursuing a complaint with the 
police about Mr S being involved in a tourist trap, or of it commencing civil proceedings or 
making a regulatory complaint about the medical staff involved in the decision to send Mr S 
to a private hospital. 
So, I am unable to find that Mr S was admitted into a private hospital for reasons unrelated 
to his health and, or, the emergency care he needed at the time.
The contract
URV has told this service that no valid contract exists between Mr S and the private hospital, 
but again, Im not persuaded that I can make such a finding here either.  
I note that when explaining why he agreed to his treatment, Mr S said he didnt read the 
paperwork because he didnt have his glasses, but he says he did ask if it was requesting 
his consent, and he did choose to sign it because hed already been told his operation was 
urgent. Mr Ss treatment then went ahead, and there is no evidence in this complaint to 
demonstrate that treatment was inappropriate, nor that the bill for it was inflated. In fact, I 
note that URV has already told this service it isnt disputing the costs that have been billed in 
this case. 
I am aware that URV sent both Mr and Mrs S and the private hospital correspondence to 
explain that it didnt think a valid contract was in place. But I havent seen any evidence to 
show that it has proactively pursued this area of concern further. And while I appreciate the 
concerns URV has about the paperwork that Mr S signed, for the reasons I have given 
above Im not persuaded that there was no valid contract between him and the private 
hospital that provided the treatment. Mr S freely signed the paperwork agreeing to the 
treatment and so Im satisfied a valid contract was entered into.
The payment of the bill
URV says it disputed the bill from the private hospital because it didnt think a valid contract 
was in place. However, I have already explained why I think a contract did exist between Mr 
S and the private hospital, and so Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ss payment of the bill 
prejudiced URV in this regard. 
I also note that URV was not disputing the amount that had been billed for the treatment, 
and had provided Mr and Mrs S different responses in relation to the outcome of their claim.  
For example, URV told Mr and Mrs S that it disputed the validity of the contract between Mr S and the private hospital and they should send it any correspondence from the hospital. 
It told them it was not holding them liable for the debt. And it told them it would settle the 
claim by way of full payment of the costs of the bill into their bank account within a few days.
The above was, understandably, a cause of both frustration and at times confusion for Mr 
and Mrs S and I understand why they wanted to seek another opinion on their position. 
However, although I think Mr and Mrs S should have contacted URV before paying the bill, 
Im not persuaded that not doing so prejudiced URVs position  URV is not disputing the 
costs of the bill, and it has not been able to demonstrate that a valid contract was not in 
place. So, I too think it is right that it reimburses Mr and Mrs S.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have set out above, to put things right URV should:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the private hospital bill they paid, less any relevant 
policy deductions and the £10,000 it has already paid. 
Add 8% simple interest* on the full amount of the hospital bill from the date Mr and 
Mrs S paid it to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Union Reiseversicherung AG must put 
things right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021. 
*If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman