DRN-1801735
The complaint
Mr B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited delayed a claim he made on his sofa warranty 
policy for ink stains; and caused him upset and inconvenience. Hes also unhappy that the 
cleaning kit he was given when he bought the sofa and policy made the stains worse.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
I can understand why Mr B is unhappy given no action was taken on his claim for 
three and half months, until he chased. Amtrust accepts the claim was closed in 
error. I also understand Mr B wasnt called back within five days of when he first 
chased, as had been promised, so he had to call again.
 
However, I havent seen that Mr B had chased Amtrust during those three and half 
months. So, whilst I accept this delay was frustrating, and I acknowledge what hes 
told us about being embarrassed by the stains, Im not persuaded that significant 
upset or inconvenience was caused during this time.
 
Amtrust visited Mr B three weeks after he chased his claim, to inspect the stains; and 
a second visit took place three weeks after, for the repair. Mr B is unhappy with these 
timeframes, and about having to wait in on the days of the visits. However, the policy 
terms dont commit Amtrust to completing a repair within a specific timeframe, and 
overall, Im not persuaded two visits, or six weeks, was unreasonable. The policy 
terms also dont commit Amtrust to giving specific time slots for visits, and I dont 
consider this unusual or unreasonable. An insurance claim is likely to involve a 
degree of inconvenience.
 
Mr B says the cleaning kit made the ink stains worse. However, although I appreciate 
his frustration that the kit didnt work on his stains, Im not persuaded this point is of 
relevance given Amtrust repaired the sofa.
 
Amtrust offered Mr B £30 to apologise for its handling of the claim during the first four 
months. For the reasons above, overall, I consider £30 to be a fair acknowledgement 
of what happened, and of the impact this initial delay can reasonably be said to have 
had on Mr B. Im not persuaded I would have awarded significantly more if Amtrust 
hadnt made this offer. 
 
My final decisionIm persuaded Amtrusts £30 offer is fair in all the circumstances. I understand this wasnt 
accepted or paid. Therefore, I uphold Mr Bs complaint, and my final decision is that   
Amtrust Europe Limited should compensate him £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman