DRN-3209558
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the information he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
regarding how a repayment plan would affect his credit file.  
What happened
Mr A had an overdraft on an account with HSBC and he decided to change his banking to 
another bank. In early October 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr A and explained that to close his 
account, he would need to pay his overdrawn balance in full, which was approximately 
£2,010 at the time. 
HSBC, in their correspondence, told Mr A that if he couldnt pay this in full, he could speak to 
them about putting a payment arrangement in place. On 26 October 2020, Mr A called 
HSBC. During this call an HSBC advisor completed an income and expenditure assessment 
with Mr A, and a repayment plan of £30 a month was agreed.  
Mr A said that during that call the advisor told him that his credit score would not be affected 
if he made regular monthly payments to clear the balance of his outstanding overdraft. He 
said that he stuck to the plan and paid it every month, but it turns out this arrangement did 
affect his credit score. He said that once he found out that his credit score had been 
affected, he borrowed money from his parents and paid off the overdraft. He said that this 
was something he couldve done from the start, had he been advised by HSBC properly. He 
is unhappy as he said that in the future, he plans on taking out credit and he thinks this could 
ruin his chances of doing so successfully. 
In May 2021, HSBC wrote to Mr A. In this correspondence they said that they listened to the 
call Mr A had with their advisor on 26 October 2020. They said that during this call, their 
advisor did inform Mr A that the plan would show as an arrangement on his credit file. So, 
they said, they were unable to remove this from his credit file as there was no error on their 
part.
Mr A was unhappy with this so he brough his complaint our service. 
Our investigator didnt think that HSBC have acted unfairly. She thought that during the call 
Mr A had with them, HSBC gave Mr A correct information regarding the payments impact on 
his credit file. She also thought that the assistance HSBC provided to Mr A by arranging a 
repayment plan for him was reasonable. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
In summary, Mr As main complaint point is that HSBC told him that his credit score would 
not be affected if he made regular monthly payments to clear the balance of his outstanding 
overdraft. He has told us that during the call HSBCs agent mentioned credit file but didnt 
mention credit score. 
So, Ive taken the above into consideration, and Ive listened to the call Mr A had with HSBC. 
From the call, I can see that HSBC informed Mr A that the repayment plan, that was agreed 
between him and them, will show on his credit file and will still have an impact, as it will be 
classed as overdrawn. 
Mr A during that call asked if it will have an impact on his credit and his credit history straight 
away. The HSBC agent explained that credit reference agencies are updated every month, 
and that it will have a negative impact, but how much will depend on how long Mr A will be 
overdrawn for. The agent also explained the collection process, and what else can happen if 
the account remains overdrawn for 60 days; including providing details that a default marker 
can be placed on Mr As credit file and the impact it can have. 
The agent explained that by making payments Mr A will at least show that he is working with 
the bank. So based on this, I think HSBC did enough by letting Mr A know that there would 
be an impact on his credit file, and I dont think HSBC was required to go into specific detail 
about the impact this would have on his credit file or credit score. So, considering the above 
and the fact that the account was overdrawn, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
report the repayments as an arrangement to pay, or to report missed payments, on Mr As 
credit file.  
I can see that HSBC, with some credit reference agencies, recorded an arrangement on   
Mr As credit file only for the first two or three months, and during the later months they 
recorded missed payments. While the case was at our service, HSBC said that they 
requested an amendment for the arrangement on Mr As credit file to show in place for full 
six months; from October 2020 to March 2021. But overall, I dont think it makes a difference 
if the arrangement is being reported for the full six months or if missed payments are 
reported instead. An arrangement to pay marker on a credit file is generally recorded when a 
borrower and lender have mutually agreed on a reduced payment plan, where payments are 
still made, but at a lower amount than the contractual amount. I think an arrangement to pay 
marker is likely to have the same impact as missed payments have - both suggest the 
borrower has struggled to pay the contractual repayments due. And an arrangement to pay 
markers also remain on a credit file for six years just like missed payments. 
And lenders are required to provide the credit reference agencies with data that accurately 
reflects how an account has been managed. In this case, after Mr A decided to close his 
current account with HSBC, his arranged overdraft became due, and as he was not able to 
pay back the entire overdrawn amount, and was only able to make token payments, he was 
in arrears. So, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong that would make me think that it should 
remove the adverse information from Mr As credit file; whether that is reported as missed 
payments or an arrangement to pay. It may be helpful for Mr A to know that he can contact 
the credit reference agencies directly and ask them to record a notice of correction  this 
means that he can record his circumstances behind the missed payments.
Mr A has also questioned whether he was treated fairly by HSBC as he said that he was 
impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic at the time, and he said that HSBC told him that he 
would be on a Covid break. So, Ive taken his concerns into consideration. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) first published their Overdrafts and coronavirus: 
temporary guidance for firms in April 2020, and then in the later months updated this 
guidance on a few occasions. This FCA guidance was put in place to assist customers in 
financial difficulties by reducing financial pressures. And in the case of overdrafts, one of 
their objectives was to deal with the interest that was being charged. I know Mr A said that 
he was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, so Ive gone on to consider if this guidance 
would be intended for him. 
The FCA issued guidance on overdrafts and coronavirus applied to individuals primary 
personal current accounts, whereby the FCA defined a primary account as one into which a 
customer would usually receive, or would have received, their main source of income. The 
difficulty here is that Mr A changed his main account from HSBC to another bank, when he 
requested to close his HSBC account. As such, he finds himself in an unusual situation 
because the repayment plan which was setup to pay off the arranged overdraft was from an 
account that was no longer his main account. But Im persuaded that even if the guidance, 
mentioned above, does apply to his situation, he still has not been treated unfairly by HSBC 
 and Ill explain why below. 
It is also important to note that even if the FCA guidance on overdrafts and coronavirus 
doesnt apply to Mr A, then the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular 
CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that firms 
should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include such things as 
considering suspending, reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time.  
 
So, bearing in mind the above mentioned FCA guidance, and CONC, I think HSBC have 
treated Mr A fairly, and with forbearance and due consideration. I say this because when   
Mr A couldnt pay off his arranged overdraft, HSBC took his circumstances into account, and 
agreed to set up a repayment plan for him. As part of this repayment plan, they agreed to 
take token payments of only £30 for six months, and they also suppressed all charges and 
interest during this period. They also explained the implications, including the impact this 
would have on his credit file, for the forbearance repayment plan they agreed with him. So, 
the actions they have taken were in line with what FCA guidance suggest that financial firms 
do when an individual finds themselves in exceptional circumstances, arising out of the 
coronavirus pandemic. It is also the way I wouldve expected HSBC to treat Mr A, taking into 
consideration the CONC rules. So overall I believe that HSBC have done enough when 
helping him out in the difficult circumstances he found himself in.  
Overall, I appreciate the difficulties that Mr A is experiencing, but taking all of the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr A has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman