DRN-4322103
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly transferring their funds in 
EUR and causing a financial loss.   
What happened
In April 2023, Mrs M contacted HSBC to send GBP £1,000,000 to a GBP account in Country 
A. 
Mrs M thought her instruction had been followed but was disappointed to later be informed 
that it was necessary for her to visit an HSBC branch.
Mrs M says that when she visited the branch, she made it clear to the manager that she was 
sending GBP £1,000,000 to a GBP account in Country A and, when she left the branch after 
signing a form, this is what she thought had happened.
Mrs M later discovered that her funds had been sent in EUR which meant the transaction 
was subject to unnecessary foreign exchange rate conversions. 
Mrs M instructed her funds to be returned and discovered she had lost £17,665.48.
When Mrs M complained to HSBC, they said they had followed her request to send her 
funds in EUR.
Mrs M complained to our service and our investigator thought it more likely than not that 
HSBC had made a mistake and he said HSBC should pay Mrs M and Mr M:  
£17,665.48 foreign exchange rate loss 
8% simple interest on this loss from the date of transfer to the date of settlement 
£200 compensation 
However, as HSBC are dissatisfied this complaint has been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
There are two different versions of the events that took place at the HSBC branch and in 
cases where information is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I must reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have 
happened in light of the available information.
In her submission Mrs M:
Says she told the manager it was a GBP to GBP transaction 
Explains that she was placed in a room with a representative and instructed the payment 
in GBP. And, having spoken to the manager she was surprised when the representative 
said, I dont have the authority to make this payment
Describes another employee coming into the room to input the payment and questions 
multiple employees being involved in the transaction 
Questions why the manager didnt assist, check or supervise the transaction
In the HSBC submission the representative managing the pod in the banking hall:
Says Mrs M didnt mention the currency (GBP) to myself at any point, she merely 
requested to make a large payment of one million and I wasnt aware it was an 
International payment, which was why she was initially put with a colleague would had 
the access to make EFT payments
Explains that the representative who input the payment onto the system is adamant she 
explained the conversion rate to the customer from GBP to EUR whilst she was in 
branch, at no point did the customer advise my colleague it was to be input in GBP 
specifically, prior to confirming the FX deal on the system, she also went through the 
instruction form in detail to check all details, and exchange rate, were correct with the 
customer, prior to the customer signing she agreed with everything which had been 
discussed
Says Mrs M had not queried anything at any point throughout the entire transaction so 
there was no reason for any additional questioning, querying or further payment 
warnings to be discussed
Describes a very experienced and thorough inputter
Explains his/her role is to audit and release payments on occasion, therefore we could 
not do inputting
From reviewing the file, Im satisfied that Mrs M intended to transfer her funds in GBP. This 
is because the account she was crediting in Country A was in GBP. In addition, in the 
following HSBC dont disagree that she tried to complete a GBP to GBP transaction days 
earlier:
The call recordings do suggest the transfer was to be made in GBP
HSBC say they wouldnt expect branch staff to know either the details of the recipient bank 
account or Mrs Ms recent unsuccessful telephone banking attempt. However, I wouldve 
expected HSBC to have both established the transaction currency before commencing the 
transaction and looked at their system notes to understand Mrs Ms recent issue. I say this 
for the following reasons: 
When making payment on behalf of a customer HSBC have a duty to exercise both 
reasonable skill and care
HSBC staff were aware that Mrs M had attempted to make the payment over the phone. 
Also, they knew Mrs M was stressed and had submitted a complaint.
HSBC guidance states that they:
Encourage the customer to send the payment in the local currency of the beneficiary 
bank. This means: 
oThe beneficiary bank will receive the full amount sent
oTherell be no fluctuating exchange rates
There is a risk an error could occur, as HSBCs system defaults to the recipient local 
currency regardless of whether the funds are both coming from and going to a GBP 
account.
So, although Mrs M signed HSBCs instruction form, and I will shortly come onto that, I dont 
think HSBC were diligent either before or during their inputting stage. Although there are different recollections of the conversation between the pod manager and 
Mrs M, even if Mrs M didnt say it was GBP to GBP its clear there was a conversation and 
that the pod manager didnt establish information about the transaction or recent events, so 
there was a missed opportunity to initially clarify requirements. 
This meant there was a reliance on the inputter checking all the details and explaining the 
conversion to EUR and the exchange rate. However, considering the account being credited 
was in GBP, had the inputter done so, I think it more likely than not that Mrs M wouldve 
immediately pointed out the transaction was to be in GBP and there was no requirement for 
an exchange rate. 
The pod manager says he / she would audit and release payments on occasion. So, there 
was another opportunity, prior to the signing of the form, where the risk of processing a 
transaction in the wrong currency couldve been mitigated. And, I would consider a 
£1,000,000 transaction on a pre-populated form, with a customer who had just experienced 
issues and submitted a complaint, to have risk factors and to be a suitable occasion. 
So, I asked HSBC about the approval checks undertaken prior to releasing funds and they 
said:
The second stage involves the releaser, who is responsible for sense checking the 
payment, ensuring the signed transaction form matches the details recorded on the BIFPIN 
for the payment and checks the payment has been authorised by the customer prior to being 
released, checking the signature matches our records. They also check to make sure there 
are no errors with the instruction in question.
Although there was no additional information on what the releaser should check, I think this 
shouldve involved interaction with the customer to check the process had been completed 
efficiently, to the customers satisfaction, and that the funds were going to the right place and 
in the right currency. 
I think it more likely than not that this process didnt happen. I say this because Mrs M 
consistently describes a manager who didnt have any involvement and delegated to 
stressed staff. Also, there is a lack of information on what happened at the release stage, the 
pod manager states having high confidence in the inputter and says:
Mrs M had not queried anything at any point throughout the entire transaction 
And there was no reason for any additional questioning, querying or further payment 
warnings to be discussed.
I found the pod manager statement surprising and considering his / her comments, together 
with the above-mentioned risk factors, I think it adds weight to Mrs Ms testimony that there 
was a lack of involvement from the pod manager and the HSBC staff processing the 
transaction were flustered and made assumptions which impacted upon their actions.   
Although I found HSBC had preventative measures in place, I think it more likely than not 
that, prior to the last stage of the process, which is the customer checking and signing the 
form, HSBC made errors establishing the transaction and then at the inputting and release 
stages.
Regarding the instruction form, there is no doubt that this was signed by Mrs M and this was 
a further opportunity to avoid an error. However, although I agree Mrs M shouldve checked 
this form, when considering her persuasive testimony about her verbal instructions, I can see 
that she placed a lot of reliance on her verbal instruction being followed. I considered HSBCs point that, if Mrs M had reservations about the competence of their 
staff, she wouldve scrutinised the form. However, from reading the file, I think Mrs Ms 
observations were made in hindsight when reflecting upon a transaction that went wrong.
I agree this is a finely balanced case. However, when considering the above, based on 
balance of probabilities, I think it more likely than not that, on a transaction which there was 
a risk and warning signs, HSBC made errors at several stages and Mrs M shouldve 
received a better level of service. 
So, although Mrs M shouldve checked HSBCs instruction form before signing it, she 
shouldve been able to rely on HSBC exercising more skill, care and attention prior to that 
final stage. I therefore think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for HSBC to cover the 
£17,665.48 foreign exchange rate loss and pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from the 
date of transfer to the date of settlement.
Finally, regarding compensation, the £200 proposed by the investigator appears low, 
however I consider it to be fair. I say this because I think there were errors on both sides, our 
awards for compensation tend to be modest and the main cause of upset, stress and 
frustration here, is the concern about the exchange rate and interest losses which I have 
addressed.
So, considering all the above Im upholding this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mrs M and Mr M:
£17,665.48 for the foreign exchange rate loss 
8% simple interest on £17,665.48, from the date of transfer to the date of settlement
£200 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Mrs M and Mr M:
£17,665.48 for the foreign exchange rate loss 
8% simple interest on £17,665.48, from the date of transfer to the date of settlement
£200 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman