DRN-3341347
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Santander Consumer (UK) Plc dealt with his request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr N was supplied with a car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. He paid an advance payment of £3,900, and the agreement was for £35,100 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £519.59 and a final payment of £16,258.95.
Mr Ns income was affected by Covid-19 and, on 1 April 2020, he cancelled his direct debit. 
Santander unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr N about this, and the payment thatd been 
missed. However, Mr N applied for a three-month payment deferral, also known as a 
payment holiday, on 12 May 2020. Santander approved this application and the payments 
for May to July 2020 were deferred.
After the payment deferral period had ended, Santander contacted Mr N about reinstating 
his direct debit, and about the payments hed missed. But, because they couldnt speak to 
him about this, and because he didnt start making payments, Santander defaulted Mr Ns 
account in October 2020. And they appointed a third-party company to start recovery action.
Santander received a direct debit mandate from Mr N in November 2020, but they didnt set 
this up; saying that they required the arrears to be paid in full, and the direct debit only 
allowed them to take monthly payments.
Mr N complained to Santander that theyd failed to reinstate his direct debit at the end of the 
payment deferral period. He said that, because of this, they didnt collect the payments they 
shouldve, and they recorded adverse information on his credit file as a result. And this had a 
severe impact on his mental health and ruined his credit rating.
Santander said they shouldve set up the direct debit they received in November 2020, but 
they wouldnt have been able to collect monthly payments through this, as the account had 
already been defaulted. They also said they couldnt remove the adverse information from 
Mr Ns credit file, as it accurately reflected how his account had been conducted (although 
they did remove the missed payment markers relating to the payment deferral). Mr N wasnt 
happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Santander tried to contact Mr N to discuss the situation, both after the 
direct debit had been cancelled, and when the payment deferral period ended. But he didnt 
respond to their phone calls, letters, or SMS messages. And, because Mr N didnt start 
making payments, or request a further payment deferral, the investigator thought Santander 
had acted reasonably by defaulting Mr Ns account.
With regards to the direct debit, the investigator said Santander had already advised Mr N 
that he either needed to call them to pay his arrears or make a payment through their 
website. So, he didnt think Santander not setting up the direct debit had stopped the arrears 
being collected  the direct debit would only collect the monthly payment and, at the time 
Santander received the mandate, Mr N was required to clear the arrears in full. And a normal 
monthly payment wasnt sufficient to do this. As such, the investigator didnt think Santander 
needed to do anything more.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. He said he didnt cancel the direct debit, Santander 
did. And they made no attempts to contact him about either the cancelled direct debit or the 
missed payments. Nor did they restart the direct debit once the payment deferral period had 
ended, which they shouldve done.
Mr N also said that I have suffered a major Heart Attack which has almost certainly been 
brought on by [Santanders] actions with the stress and worry that this has caused myself 
and this is clearly medically documented.
Finally, Mr N commented on how Santander dealt with his complaints and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr N was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Before I address the issues thatve been raised, I think its beneficial for me to explain the 
scope of my decision. While Im able to consider regulated activities, such as how Santander 
dealt with Mr Ns account, Im unable to consider unregulated activities. And complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity. As such, and while I appreciate how strongly Mr N feels 
about how his complaint was handled, I wont be addressing this within my decision.
Santander have provided their contact handling notes for Mr Ns account. And, in an entry 
dated 1 April 2020, Santander have noted DDM2 ADDACS INSTR CANCELLED BY 
PAYER. Im satisfied this entry records that the direct debit mandate (DDM) was cancelled 
at Mr Ns bank, and not by any action taken by Santander.
The payment due on 24 April 2020 wasnt paid and, as a result, Santander sent Mr N a 
reminder letter dated 4 May 2020, followed by a reminder SMS message two days later. As 
a result of this, Mr N asked for, and was granted, a three-month payment deferral.
The contact handling notes show that, between 3 July and 21 August 2020, Santander 
unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr N 28 times by phone, leaving 27 messages asking him to 
call back. However, Santander successfully contacted Mr N twice during this period - on 17 
July 2020 where Mr N terminated the call after Santander had introduced themselves, and 
on 28 July 2020 when the call cut off as Mr N answered it.Santander sent an arrears letter to Mr N on 24 August 2020 and, in response, they received 
a letter from Mr N (dated 29 August) asking for a new DDM to be sent to him. Santander 
unsuccessfully tried to call him about this on 10 September. But Ive not seen anything to 
show me whether a DDM was sent to Mr N at this point.
Santander sent Mr N another arrears letter on 3 October 2020, asking him to please pay or 
telephone us immediately. This was followed by a default notice on 6 October. The default 
notice explained that Mr N needed to pay the £1,628.77 arrears in full by 26 October 2020, 
otherwise Santander would terminate the agreement and repossess the car.
As Mr N didnt clear the arrears, on 28 October 2020 Santander advised him the agreement 
had been defaulted, and that theyd instructed a third-party company to recover the arrears.
Mr N emailed Santander on 2 November 2020, asking for a DDM. The third-party company 
emailed Mr N on 4 November 2020, asking for him to contact them as a matter of urgency to 
make payment. In response to this email, Mr N said that he would be sending Santander a 
direct debit mandate on 7 November 2020. And he also said no further communications will 
be entered into directly.
Santander received a completed DDM from Mr N on 13 November 2020. This wasnt set up 
and, on 4 December 2020, the agreement was terminated, and Santander advised Mr N of 
their intention to repossess the car.
Based on the evidence Ive seen; Im satisfied Santander didnt cancel the direct debit in 
April 2020. Im also satisfied they made reasonable attempts to contact Mr N to discuss the 
situation before the account was defaulted. 
I appreciate that Mr N has said that he didnt receive any contact from Santander and that 
Santander ignored his attempts to contact them. However, while the occasional contact may 
not have reached Mr N for a number of reasons; on the balance of probabilities I think its 
more likely than not that he received the majority of the 27 phone messages they left him, 
and the majority of the letters they sent. Whats more, I havent seen any evidence of Mr N 
trying to contact Santander to discuss the situation.
However, regardless of any attempted contact, Mr N knew he needed to restart payments in 
August 2020, after the payment deferral period had ended. And, by asking Santander on 29 
August to supply him with a new DDM, Im satisfied he would also have known the payments 
werent being collected. And Ive not seen anything to show me that he tried to make these 
payments through any alternate method i.e. through Santanders website, or asking his bank 
to set up a standing order. And the fact that a direct debit wasnt set up after the 29 August 
2020 request doesnt alter this.
Mr N made his second request for a DDM after hed received both the default notice, and the 
time specified to clear the arrears in this notice had expired. As a result, I dont think 
Santander did anything wrong at this stage by not setting up the DDM they received. And Im 
satisfied with their explanation that they wouldnt be able to reasonably collect the lump sum 
arrears as a single payment under a new direct debit, when Mr N was setting it up with the 
express purpose of making the normal monthly payments.Santander did write to Mr N in January 2021, telling him that normal monthly payments 
would recommence on 24 February. And Im satisfied this letter was generated because of 
the direct debit being set up following Mr Ns complaint. But Mr N had already received a 
default notice, been told his agreement had been terminated, been told that the car needed 
to be returned, and been told that he was required to pay the full amount owing under the 
agreement. So, given the lack of any other documentation indicating this was no longer the 
case, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr N to rely on this letter to show that his agreement 
had been reinstated and normal monthly payments were to restart.
Given all the above, Im satisfied that Santander have acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances, and I wont be asking then to take any further action.
Mr N has also provided medical evidence of heart attack in January 2022. While Im sorry to 
hear that hes been ill, the medical evidence hes supplied doesnt to show or indicate the 
cause of the heart attack. Im aware that he blames Santander for this but, as I dont think 
Santander have acted unreasonably, I wont be asking them to consider any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman