DRN-3589142
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
The complaint is brought on Ms behalf by its director, Mr S.
What happened
M wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with HSBC, but it didnt hold an account
with the bank. It applied for a business current account and BBL in May 2020. After a month,
Mr S hadnt heard anything, so he complained to the bank. HSBC said the account
application had lapsed, so the BBL application couldnt be progressed as M needed to hold
an account with HSBC first. M applied for the account again in June, however this
application also lapsed. M applied again in mid-July and in early October, HSBC contacted
Mr S to say that Ms application had expired, and the bank was no longer accepting new
customers.
HSBC said that Ms application had been submitted incorrectly and it should have applied as
a switcher request rather than a start-up as it already held a business account elsewhere.
However, as M had applied before HSBC had stopped accepting new customers, the bank
allowed the business to reapply in early October. In November, HSBC declined Ms final
account application as it didnt meet the banks eligibility criteria.
Mr S made a complaint on Ms behalf. He said that HSBC had accepted an application for
another of his businesses which had been submitted after Ms application. So he believed
HSBC should accept Ms account request.
HSBC agreed that its service hadnt been as good as it would have expected. The bank said
it was experiencing a high volume of applications which meant it wasnt meeting its usual
timescales. HSBC apologised for the delays, but said it reviewed each application on an
individual basis to ensure they met the banks legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr S didnt think M had been treated fairly and asked this service to look into the businesss
complaint. He also told us he had another business which had its account opened by the
bank  which he was also the director for - so he didnt know why Ms applications had been
declined.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for HSBC to decline Ms application for a
business account as it didnt meet the banks criteria and so, with no account, the company
was ineligible to apply to the bank for a BBL. However, he thought HSBC had taken too long
to process Ms applications - which then lapsed. Therefore he asked the bank to pay £250
compensation for the inconvenience.
HSBC accepted the investigators view, but Mr S didnt. He said in summary:
He didnt feel £250 compensation was enough for the inconvenience caused.
Hed said hed put M as a start-up business rather than a switcher on the 
application form as that is what HSBC had told him to do.
The credit check markers from the repeated applications would have shown on his 
and Ms credit file at the time the company was seeking finance and wouldve had a 
negative impact.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
Although the BBL Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had some 
discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. There were also checks a borrower would be subject to when applying for 
a loan from any lender including, customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know 
Your Customer checks.
The bank has told us that as one of the only lenders offering BBLs to new 
customers, it was extremely busy and wasnt able to process applications as quickly 
as it would have liked. And I think thats a reasonable explanation for the initial delay 
in processing Ms first application. However, Ive seen that this application didnt 
progress due to inactivity, which caused it to lapse - and that the same issue 
occurred with Ms second application which was submitted in June.
HSBC apologised and acknowledged its service could have been better when 
processing Ms first two applications. The bank accepted it made an error when the 
June application lapsed and agreed to rekey the application itself to prevent further 
inconvenience to M. I can see there was a discrepancy with the type of application M 
had submitted. However, the bank didnt identify this before it submitted the third 
application on Ms behalf. HSBC said the reason it didnt identify the issue on the 
earlier applications was because they were being reviewed and information was 
outstanding. But as the first two applications lapsed due to inactivity, I dont think 
thats reasonable.
The bank said that it had a significant amount of applications which again delayed
processing Ms application. But as Ms original application had already lapsed twice 
due to the banks actions, I think the bank should have treated the third application as 
a priority  as it had agreed to do. Instead it took a month for the bank to review Ms 
application. HSBC has said that it is aware some staff said that applications could be 
fast-tracked, but that this wasnt guaranteed. But I dont agree in this case. Ive seen 
the emails between Mr S and HSBC, and I think it was reasonable for him to expect 
Ms application to be progressed quickly by the bank as hed received assurances on 
several occasions.
In mid-August, HSBC finally reviewed Ms third application and completed its checks, 
and the bank identified there was an issue with the identification documents it had 
obtained from Mr S to complete its checks. Whilst HSBC had been internally 
reviewing Ms application, the documents Mr S had repeatedly provided with each 
application since the original one in May 2020, had expired. But despite numerous 
emails and contact from Mr S, HSBC didnt explain what had happened, why the 
application hadnt been successful or ask Mr S for new identification documents so it 
could proceed with Ms application.It took a further three weeks for the bank to ask if it could rekey Ms application again. 
It then told Mr M that hed hear back within 48 hours, which didnt happen. After 
several weeks the bank identified it had submitted the application again as a start-
up and it was cancelled. I think it was reasonable that HSBC didnt progress this 
application, as it couldnt verify Mr Ss identity. But I dont think it was fair that the 
bank didnt explain to Mr S what had happened or ask him for new identification 
documents. This meant he wasnt given the opportunity to address the issue before 
the application was cancelled, or before M submitted a further application.
Mr S submitted Ms final application on 8 October, this time as a switcher which was 
the correct application. But Mr S didnt receive an acknowledgement from HSBC, so 
he repeatedly contacted the bank for an update. HSBC reviewed Ms application in 
mid-November and declined it based on the identification document issue it had 
already noted in August. As with the August application, I think the banks reason for 
not proceeding with the final application was reasonable. However, I think the banks 
actions led to the reason for the decline - as it didnt process Ms original applications 
in a reasonable manner causing the business inconvenience. Im also not satisfied 
with HSBCs explanation for the delay in reviewing the rekeyed applications.
Mr S submitted four applications on Ms behalf in total - in addition to the applications 
reinput by the bank. I recognise HSBC said it wasnt able to process the applications 
which had been submitted as a start-up as the questions which were asked were 
different to what the switcher application  and therefore its staff werent able to use 
the information which had been provided. I think this explanation is reasonable. 
However, Mr S has said he was told by the bank to submit the applications in this 
way. He has provided comprehensive records of his discussions and calls with the 
bank and I have no reason to doubt this was the case. It also doesnt explain why 
HSBC didnt tell Mr S that his identification documents had expired when it reviewed 
Ms application in August or ask for alternative documents which he then could have 
provided with the subsequent application in October.
In addition to this, I havent seen any evidence that Mr S was told Ms applications 
should be submitted as a switcher until October  which he did for the final 
application. Based on what Ive seen, I think if HSBC had processed Ms original 
application in a reasonable timescale, the bank would have declined Ms application 
because it was submitted as a start-up. HSBC would then have told Mr S it was the 
wrong type of application, so he couldve submitted Ms second application correctly - 
and before the issue with his identification arose.
I think HSBC made some errors in processing Ms applications, which meant M had 
to apply several more times directly with the bank - and liaise with staff so the bank 
could submit the rekeyed applications. I recognise Mr S feels the compensation 
suggested by the investigator isnt enough for the inconvenience that M was caused 
and from what Ive seen so far, I think a higher figure would be appropriate. From the 
information hes provided, I can see his time as a director was impacted in the ways 
Ive outlined above. I think this caused M a level of inconvenience for which £500 
would be fair compensation.
Mr S has also told us about the personal impact of HSBCs actions. And whilst I do
understand his position due to the issues M has experienced, I can only award
compensation to the person(s) or entity bringing the complaint to this service  which 
in this case is M. As a limited company cant be caused distress, I can only look at 
the inconvenience caused to M by HSBCs actions.I acknowledge Mr Ss comments about the impact of the banks actions on both his 
and Ms credit file. But according to HSBC the credit checks have already dropped 
from both credit files due to the time thats passed. And Mr S hasnt provided any 
evidence to show there has been a negative impact on himself or M, so Im not able 
to consider this as part of the award for compensation either.
So for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think HSBC processed Ms business 
current account application in a reasonable way. Its clear the banks handling of the 
application caused M inconvenience, so to put things right I think HSBC should pay 
M £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I invited Mr S and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Mr S responded to say that he had nothing further 
to add. HSBC responded to say it accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Mr S responded to say he had nothing further to add and HSBC has 
accepted the provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay M £500 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman