DRN-1579867
 
Complaint
Mrs G says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mrs G paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
I think its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the sale. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to dispose of Mrs Gs data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Mrs G doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think thats 
understandable, given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for HSBC to have misled Mrs G into having PPI. 
But I have no evidence which shows thats what HSBC did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with its sales process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect HSBC to be able to produce documents from the time to defend itself 
now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that HSBC misled Mrs G. I think its 
more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, offered her a choice, and she 
chose PPI at the time  though I can certainly understand if she no longer recalls doing so 
after so many years.
Its not clear whether HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs G, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on HSBC if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs G, Ive assumed it did. That 
means HSBC had to check the policy was right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mrs G was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.While Mrs G got sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and offered 
her more comprehensive cover, especially for when her sick pay reduced to just a fraction of 
her normal pay. And she doesnt seem to have had any other significant cover in case she 
lost her job, which potentially left her at serious risk. Long-term periods of unemployment 
can and do happen, even in industries that feel secure at the time. And ultimately, the 
mortgage was secured against Mrs Gs property  if she fell behind on the payments, she 
couldve lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for her in 
protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information HSBC gave Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, Mrs G wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs G could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman