DRN-3572939
The complaint
Mr K complains that Skrill Limited allowed him to make payments to an online investment 
platform. 
What happened
The particulars of this case are well known to the parties, so I do not intend to detail them 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on the key events and the reasoning behind my decision. This 
is not a discourtesy to Mr K or Skrill, it just reflects the informal nature of our service. 
On 6 August 2020, Mr K made a payment from his Skrill account to an online investment 
platform, which for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as T. Mr K says he encountered 
problems with T and its practices. He also later found out that forex trading is illegal in Sri 
Lanka where he resides. For this reason, Mr K alleges that Skrill should not have permitted 
the payment to go ahead, because it was for forex trading. As such, Mr K believes that Skrill 
should take remedial action. Including, returning the 945 USD he deposited with T. 
Skrill didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint; it cited that it only acted as a payment processor in the 
transaction journey, and the terms of agreement make it clear that its up to Skrill consumers 
to ensure they comply with the laws of their country of residence. 
Upon bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators agreed with this response 
and didnt recommend Skrill take any further action for the complaint. Because Mr K does 
not agree, the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear this case centres around Mr Ks concern that Skrill ought to have 
prevented the payment he instructed it to make to T. Accordingly, Ive focused on if its fair 
and reasonable that Skrill allowed the payment to go ahead. 
The starting point is whether Skrill had grounds to intervene or even stop the payment 
instruction on the basis of suspected fraud. Skrill is an authorised electronic money 
institution (EMI), providing payment solutions for consumers like Mr K. In accordance with 
the various principles of good industry practice it should follow, Skrill should be on the look 
for suspicious activity and endeavour to protect consumers from the risk of financial harm 
posed by fraud. 
Considering the payment to T on this basis, I am not convinced there was sufficient reason 
for Skrill to have stepped in and asked questions of Mr K. The industry intelligence about T 
did not suggest it posed as a real risk of fraud; the watchlists and official organisations that 
Skrill could rely on had not published concerning reports about Ts operation. Indeed, Ts 
regulatory status appeared intact in August 2020 (and continues to be so now). Whats 
more, I do not find it unreasonable for Skrill not to have flagged the payment for further 
checking on account of its value alone. As I see it, the 945 USD did not represent an overly 
concerning payment amount in the circumstances. 
Next, Ive gone on to consider Mr Ks claim that Skrill should have declined the payment to T 
because he lives in Sri Lanka. His argument is that Skrill ought to have recognised where he 
resides and stopped the payment to T because he was engaging in forex trading. 
To support this, Mr K has submitted information regarding the laws of his country, in 
particular a notice from the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL). Amongst other things, this 
sets out that residents in Sri Lanka are not permitted to undertake forex trading or remit 
funds outside of Sri Lanka for such transactions. The same applies to receiving income or 
profits earned from forex trading. 
The notice also points out that licensed commercial banks as authorised dealers are 
permitted to deal in foreign exchange for certain transactions (subject to the relevant 
regulations). But CBSL has not granted any permission for authorised dealers to facilitate 
forex trading or transactions on behalf of a person in, or resident of Sri Lanka. In other 
words, any resident in Sri Lanka engaging in forex risks violating this notice, as does any 
authorised dealer facilitating forex trading on behalf of a person, or resident in Sri Lanka. 
As Ive already mentioned, Skrill is an EMI. Its regulatory status says it has permission to 
issue electronic money and provide payment services  but this does not necessarily mean it 
is regarded as a commercial bank (or retail bank). Rather, according to the UK regulator, the 
regulated activities it can provide do not mention being a bank or an authorised dealer. 
With that in mind, I am not convinced that Skrill ought to be considered as acting in the 
capacity of a commercial bank/authorised dealer for the purposes of this disputed 
transaction. In which case, I cannot safely conclude that it needed permission to carry out 
the processing of Mr Ks payment to T, nor that it contravened the CBSL notice by doing so. 
But regardless, its my judgment that it would not be fair to hold it responsible for this 
payment possibly breaching certain requirements in Sri Lanka. 
First of all, there is a lack of evidence that Skrill was specifically instructed to remit money for 
the undertaking of forex trading (as per the CBSL notice). On the contrary, the instruction   
Mr K gave Skrill was simply to pay an investment platform. I find this significant, as T does 
deal in forex trading  but this is not all that it provides consumers. According to Ts website, 
it also provides services for other investment types. Including, but not limited to, precious 
metals, bonds and stocks. It follows that, Mr K could have used the payment services of 
Skrill to deposit funds with T for trading on activities other than forex. On account of the 
evidence, there appears no inextricable link between the payment instruction Mr K gave 
Skrill and forex trading. 
Secondly, Skrills contract terms also set out the obligations of its consumers. In order to 
make the payment, Mr K would first have had to accept the terms of use which included: 
It is your and not our responsibility to ensure that you only send payments to or 
receive payments from persons or entities for the sale or supply of goods and 
services that you may provide or receive in compliance with any applicable laws and 
regulations. The mere fact that a person or entity accepts payments through us is not 
an indication of the legality of the supply or provision of their goods and services. If 
you are in doubt as to the legality of a supply or purchase, you should not continue 
with your payment. (11.7)
Moreover, the terms explain that Skrill do not take responsibility for the legality of goods or 
services as described in section 15.8: Our obligation under these Terms of Use is limited to providing you with an 
electronic money account and related payment services and we do not make any 
statement in relation to or endorsement of the quality, safety or legality of any goods 
or services provided by a Skrill customer or intermediary.
On these grounds, I find that Skrill made it reasonably clear to Mr K that it was his 
contractual responsibility to ensure that he did not use Skrills services for transactions that 
may be considered illegal within his jurisdiction. 
In light of this and the overall circumstances of the complaint, and whilst I appreciate the 
gravity of the claims Mr K has brought forward, I do not find it fair or reasonable to conclude 
that Skrill made a failing here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman