DRN-3770477
The complaint
Ms F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect her when she was the 
victim of a crypto investment scam. 
Ms F is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Ms F throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
In July 2021, Ms F was contacted by someone (the scammer) about investing in crypto. The 
scammer told Ms F they could invest on her behalf, initially investing their own money with 
no loss to Ms F. The scammer then started communicating with Ms F via WhatsApp - talking 
her through the investment process and providing reassurances of its legitimacy.
The scammer convinced Ms F to set up an account with a well-known crypto exchange - 
who Ill refer to here as G - from where the scammer said theyll conduct the trades. Ms F 
researched G and was satisfied it was a legitimate company. The scammer confirmed this 
and told Mrs F G was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Ms F was told by the scammer to transfer £10 from her Lloyds account to her account with 
G so the account could be activated. She did this on 5 September 2021. Ms F wanted her 
money back  so sent another £10 to her account with G on 9 September 2021  because 
the minimal withdrawal she could make was £20. She received £20 back into her Lloyds 
account on 9 September 2021.
On 11 September 2021 the scammer contacted Ms F to say they would put £3,100 of their 
own money into her account with G. The scammer told Ms F to convert this into bitcoin and 
then back into sterling  at which point the value had increased to £3,122.83. The scammer 
told Ms F to transfer this back into her Lloyds account  which she did on 13 September 
2021.
Now persuaded the investment was making money, and it was easy to withdraw her returns 
from G, Ms F was starting to trust the scammer. And was persuaded to transfer £12,150 (in 
five separate payments ranging from £1,510 to £3,290) to G made up of the £3,122.83 
shed withdrawn from her account with G and £10,000 shed transferred from her savings 
account. So, Ms F had now invested £9,027.17 of her own money. 
The scammer again told Ms F to convert the funds into bitcoin  and to send this to their 
bitcoin wallet to allow them to trade. The scammer told Ms F that shed already made 
£15,000 by re-investing the £3,122.83  but that additional funds were needed to release 
that profit. The scammer continued to reassure Ms F that everything was above board  and 
provided screen shots to show the money had been received in their bitcoin wallet.
Lloyds blocked the last payment of £2,760 and asked Ms F to telephone. She told the 
scammer, who explained that this expected. The scammer reassured Ms F that the 
investment was fine, sending her regular screen shots as evidence. The scammer also told 
Ms F to tell Lloyds the payment was made by her and was being sent to a crypto wallet in 
her name. And that she knew what she was doing, and no one was trading on her behalf. 
The scammer reassured Ms F that once the final payment of £2,760 was received, shed get 
returns of circa £15,000. Ms F spoke to Lloyds and the payment was processed. 
When the scammer asked for more money to release Ms Fs returns and threated her with 
debt collectors, she asked the scammer for her money back. But they said they were trading 
with the money and so it couldnt be sent back. Realising shed been the victim of scam, Ms 
F contacted Lloyds to get her money back, but it said it was unable to do so. 
Ms F complained to Lloyds. It said as Ms F had paid the funds into an account in her own 
name which she had access to, it was unable to help. It said it had stopped the last payment 
but had been assured by Ms F she knew what she was doing despite giving her warnings 
about crypto investment scams.
Ms F remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She 
thought all the payments shouldve flagged as suspicious as they were out of character 
when looking at her previous account activity. And that the questions Lloyds asked her about 
the last payment during the telephone conversation were inadequate. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said the telephone call 
between Lloyds and Ms F had been sufficient  and Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably 
based on the answers Ms F gave. Our Investigator accepted Ms F had been given a cover 
story by the scammer - but said without Lloyds knowing the truth about what was going on, 
there was nothing more it could reasonably do. 
Ms F didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said all five payments 
were out of character, and Lloyds shouldve intervened before the final payment. 
She also said Lloyds shouldve recognised shed been coached by the scammer about what 
to say about the blocked payment. She said Lloyds are the experts, and so should be alive 
to the fact scammers often coach customers to avoid the scam being detected. Ms F thought 
Lloyds shouldve probed further, asking her to attend a branch and invoked the Banking 
Protocol. Ultimately, Ms F didnt think Lloyds went far enough to provide an effective warning 
and intervention to break the spell of the scammer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I want to assure Ms F that Ive thought very carefully about the points shes 
made. But I cant say Lloyds has treated her unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
I should first point out that Lloyds had an obligation to protect Ms F from financial harm, 
irrespective of what happened to the money after if left her Lloyds account. And so, Im 
considering Ms Fs complaint about Lloyds on that basis. 
I accept the transactions Ms F made were authorised payments, even though she was the 
victim of a sophisticated crypto investment scam. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Ms F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds identified the final transaction of £2,760 as suspicious and asked Ms F to telephone 
before the payment could be processed. Where there is interaction between a bank and its 
customer in relation to a payment, wed expect the bank to take this opportunity to find out 
more about the nature of the payment it blocked. 
Ms F thinks all the payments she made were suspicious - and so Lloyds shouldve 
intervened sooner. She also thinks Lloyds shouldve recognised shed been coached by the 
scammer about what to say if a payment was blocked  and that it shouldve asked more 
probing questions to fully understand what was going on. To consider this point further, Ive 
listened to the telephone call between Ms F and Lloyds.
She explained that a payment for £2,760 had been blocked on her mobile banking app and 
shed been asked to telephone the bank to get the payment released. Ms F said it was a 
payment to a trading account. Lloyds asked if it was to trade in crypto which Ms F confirmed 
was the case. She said it was to trade in bitcoin.
Lloyds then transferred Ms F through to its fraud team for further questioning. Lloyds 
confirmed with Ms F that shed started making payments to G at the beginning of 
September 2021. She said shed needed to activate the account with smaller payments  
but confirmed all other payments to G  as well as this blocked one  had been made by 
her. Ms F told Lloyds that this was a trading account.
Lloyds asked Ms F if she had any experience in investing in crypto. She said she had traded 
a long time ago but was currently being mentored by her cousin. She said her cousin has 
lots of crypto investment experience and theyre working together. Ms F assured Lloyds she 
knew what she was doing. 
Lloyds said these are very high-risk investments and they see a lot of fraud and scams. So, 
it needed to run these checks. Ms F said she understood. 
Lloyds asked if Ms F or her cousin were using any external brokers. She said no, there was 
no need to. She said it was her choice to start trading and so she approached her cousin 
whod been trading for a long time. Lloyds asked Ms F if she had shared any of her login details with anyone. She confirmed 
that no one knew her login details for her trading account or her mobile banking  and that 
only she had access to both. 
Lloyds then told Ms F about the FCA warnings around investing in crypto  especially bitcoin 
 and how the industry isnt regulated and the FCA offers no protection. It told Ms F she 
should be prepared to lose all her money. Ms F confirmed she was aware of all that and had 
done the necessary checks when she set up the account with G. 
The payment was then processed whilst Ms F stayed on the telephone. Lloyds asked if there 
was anything else it could help with. Ms F said she was completely aware of what she was 
doing, and it should all be ok. 
My first observation from listening to the telephone call is that Ms F sounded very confident 
and there was no obvious indication the answers she gave had been scripted by the 
scammer. There was no hesitation in her responses, no contradiction in what she was 
saying, and nothing that made her testimony seem obviously implausible. 
Lloyds asked Ms F all the questions Id expect it to ask at the point it became clear Ms F was 
investing in crypto. It asked about her level of experience; if a broker was involved and if 
anyone had access to her accounts. And the responses Ms F gave, scripted or not, satisfied 
Lloyds that the payment should be unblocked. Lloyds also specifically told Ms F about the 
FCA warnings around crypto and the risk she was taking. But Ms F again confirmed she was 
aware of the risks and knew what she was doing. Based on all the responses Ms F gave, I 
cant say Lloyds acted unreasonably here and I dont think it had any further grounds to 
probe Ms F or stop the payment altogether.
I also dont believe any further intervention by Lloyds regarding the blocked payment, or 
intervention during the earlier payments, wouldve made a difference. Ms F was 
unfortunately being coached by a very convincing and persuasive scammer. She was 
completely caught up in the scam and trusted what the scammer was telling her. Because of 
that, she didnt truthfully answer the questions Lloyds asked her, and I cant see how any 
earlier intervention or more questioning by Lloyds wouldve changed that. Lloyds could only 
rely on what Ms F said in response to the questions it asked when trying to protect her, and 
so I cant say Ms Fs loss wouldve been prevented if Lloyds had done anything differently.
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Ms F has been the victim of a 
sophisticated crypto investment scam. But I think Lloyds did enough to try and protect her. 
I also dont think Lloyds couldve recovered Ms Fs payments if it tried. When her payments 
were credited to G, they were exchanged for crypto and loaded onto what she believed was 
her trading wallet  but this was in fact controlled by the scammer. So, its unlikely any funds 
wouldve remained in her account with G if Lloyds tried to recover them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman