DRN-2146013
The complaint
Mr Y complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his complaint about an 
unauthorised debit. He said this meant that he lost the opportunity to pursue a chargeback 
dispute, and he wants a refund of the disputed amount of £8,190.87.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr Y was abroad. He and his fellow driver, who Ill call Mr Z, hired a rental 
vehicle. Mr Zs credit card was used for the initial payment.
They were involved in a single vehicle accident on 2 January 2019. The vehicle turned over 
and the police were called. The rental firm asked Mr Z to ask him to agree towing charges. 
Mr Z agreed, but the rental firm rang back to say there was a problem with Mr Zs card, and 
asked for an alternative card.
Mr Y provided his Barclays card details, and asked what the cost would be. The rental firm 
said it didnt yet know, and Mr Y said he didnt want his card to be charged until hed been 
told the amount.
On 2 January the rental firm debited £8,190.87 from Mr Ys card. Mr Y didnt receive any 
documentation to support either amount.
When Mr Y became aware of the transaction, he contacted Barclays on 7 January, asking to 
raise a dispute about it. But Barclays didnt process the dispute. 
On 12 February, Mr Y contacted Barclays again. This time, Barclays credited Mr Ys account 
with a temporary credit, and notified the merchant about the dispute.
On 8 March, the merchant replied to Barclays defending the claim, and on 9 March Barclays 
sent the documents to Mr Y, asking him to review the documents. Barclays said that if Mr Y 
wanted to add any further information he should do so within 10 days.  
On 19 March, Mr Y told Barclays he now had the documents needed to support his dispute, 
and he sent these by Signed For post. He also took copies into a Barclays branch. Barclays 
signed for the posted documents on 23 March, but the documents werent added to the file.
On 23 April Barclays closed Mr Ys claim against the merchant, on the basis that he hadnt 
replied. It re-debited the disputed amount of £8,190.87 on 7 May, but didnt notify Mr Y.
The next day, Mr Y couldnt use his debit card, and he discovered that this was because of 
the debit of the disputed amount. He complained, both about his documents not having been 
considered, and about not having been told about the re-debit. Barclays credited Mr Ys 
account with £150, but it asked for the evidence again. Mr Y provided this, including 
evidence that Barclays had previously signed for it on 23 March, and he pointed out that 
during phone calls with Barclays, hed repeatedly been told that Barclays had received his 
documents. 
Mr Y made further phone calls in the next few months, and in September he wrote again. 
Barclays replied, and confirmed that Mr Ys documents had never been added to his dispute, 
and that it was then too late as the documents should have been submitted within 10 days. It 
also said it hadnt received his documents the second time hed sent them. 
In this letter, Barclays also said it had looked at Mr Ys dispute with the merchant. It said that 
the terms and conditions Mr Y had signed as joint hirer stated that hed be liable for any 
damage to the vehicle. And it said the rental firm had provided documents to show that what 
theyd charged Mr Y was in line with the repair work. So Barclays said it couldnt support Mr 
Ys claim for a refund  and it was too late to dispute the payment through the card 
chargeback scheme. Barclays apologised for the long delay in discussing Mr Ys complaint, 
and paid him a further £750 to apologise for the issues.
Mr Y wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said that Barclays mistakes in 
processing his dispute had led to him losing the opportunity to pursue the dispute through 
the credit card chargeback scheme. He pointed out that the temporary credit had been 
removed without telling him the outcome of his complaint or that the money would be re-
debited  and as a result this had put his account into debit. Mr Y explained that sometimes 
it had been impossible to reach a representative to help with his case for many months. And 
when he did, Barclays had given him incorrect information. Mr Y said that what he wanted as 
an outcome was a refund for the full amount of £8,190.87, which the merchant had taken out 
of Mr Ys account without his consent.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ys complaint. He agreed that Barclays service wasnt up 
to standard, but he thought the compensation it had paid was enough to make up for the 
mistakes.
Mr Y didnt agree. He said Barclays mishandling of his documents had a direct impact on his 
ability to provide evidence and defend his case against the merchant. He said the merchant 
had obtained his card details under false pretences, and had charged him without any 
invoice or supporting documents  and the merchants documents had been a quote for 
repairs, not evidence that the work had been carried out. 
Mr Y said hed filed the dispute not to challenge the validity of the contracts with the 
merchant or to debate the liability for vehicle repairs, but because the money was charged 
on my account without proper process, documentation or authorisation. He also believed 
that Barclays wasnt in the same position to mediate disputes with an overseas merchant as 
the credit card company would have been, and he thought Barclays could have been biased. 
Mr Y agreed hed been adequately compensated for the trouble and upset in dealing with 
Barclays, but said hed lost the opportunity to defend the merchants charge. So he wanted a 
refund of the £8,190.87.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr Y had poor service from Barclays in a number of ways, including not 
progressing his complaints, not recording his documents on file, and not telling him before 
re-debiting the disputed payment. Mr Y has accepted that Barclays compensation of £150 
plus £750 was adequate. I agree with this. So the aspect of Mr Ys complaint for me to 
consider is the issue of whether or not Barclays should refund Mr Y with the £8,190.87 
disputed transaction, on the grounds that its delays meant Mr Y had lost the opportunity to 
complain through the card scheme.Mr Y believes that the credit card firms chargeback scheme would have been in a stronger 
position to mediate disputes abroad than Barclays. But the chargeback scheme doesnt act 
as mediator, or request further evidence from the parties. It simply looks at the evidence 
presented against the chargeback rules.
Chargeback is a process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme. Its not for me to take the place of the 
chargeback scheme by making a definitive finding on whether or not Mr Ys claim would 
have succeeded. But in order to award the full disputed amount of £8,190.87, Id need to be 
satisfied that it was much more likely than not that the chargeback claim would have 
succeeded.
In practice, many card issuers as defined under the chargeback scheme (here, Barclays) 
often wont take a chargeback further if the merchant files any defence. Here, the rental firm 
did defend the claim. 
But the card issuer can ask the card scheme to decide by its final process of arbitration. The 
card scheme will then look at both sides submissions, and decide who wins based on the 
chargeback rules. 
Looking at the circumstances of Mr Ys complaint, Barclays was willing to ask Mr Y for his 
evidence, rather than just refusing the claim because it was defended by the rental firm 
merchant. But its quite possible that if Barclays had looked at the evidence in time, it would 
have decided not to proceed to the final stage of arbitration by the card scheme. It would 
have been entitled to take that decision.
Here, the merchant had a signed authority from Mr Z but couldnt debit the necessary 
amount from Mr Zs card. Mr Y had signed the hire agreement as joint hirer, and he provided 
his card details to the merchant following the accident. That was in line with the hire 
agreement, where Mr Y and Mr Z both signed to agree that:
The hirer is liable for all damages to the vehicle regardless of who is at fault.
I recognise that Mr Y argues that the rental firm didnt tell him the amount of the debit in 
advance, and hes also said that theres no evidence the quote for repairs was ever carried 
out. Ive looked at the documents and the repair quote was for around the equivalent of 
£15,000, and the hire firms response to the chargeback said that it was written off. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely either that Barclays would 
have decided not to proceed to the final stage of arbitration with Mr Ys complaint, or that the 
chargeback scheme might have decided against him. This service often has to take 
decisions based on whats most likely to have happened. And here, I find that its most likely 
that Mr Y wouldnt have received a refund even if Barclays had considered Mr Ys reply to 
the merchant within the chargeback timescales. So I dont require Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman