DRN-3675924
The complaint
Mrs T is complaining about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a chargeback claim she 
made on her Barclays credit card (Barclaycard).
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs T paid a £300 deposit for a trip for her daughter and daughters 
partner. She paid the deposit on her Barclaycard. The trip was provided by a supplier who I 
shall refer to as M. The trip was to attend a festival that I shall refer to as S. In 
November 2019 Mrs T paid the remaining balance of £1,769 using her Barclaycard again.
Due to the impact of Covid-19 S was cancelled. So M contacted Mrs Ts daughter giving her 
the following options:
1. delay the package to the following year;
2. request a refund of the amount paid; or
3. Move the booking so another S festival in a different country.
Mrs T says her daughter chose to request a refund, but she says M incorrectly recorded that 
shed asked to receive a voucher to use towards the 2021 S festival. And she says shes 
found an online forum which set out that many other people had experienced the same 
issue. Mrs Ts daughter raised this with M at first, but was unhappy with the response. So 
Mrs T raised a dispute with Barclays and asked it to refund the amount she paid.
In June 2020 Barclays processed a chargeback for both payments Mrs T made and 
temporarily credited the amount back onto the card.
In September 2020 Mrs T contacted Barclays to get an update on her claim and she was 
told that the claim had been successful and that both credits would become permanent. 
Following this, Mrs T withdrew the remaining credit on her account. However in November 
2020 she noticed that Barclays had reversed the credit and said she owed £1,769. She 
complained to Barclays who acknowledged it had given incorrect information and offered her 
£100 in compensation. But it said she owed the £1,769, however it said it would give her a 
four month interest free period to pay it back.
Mrs T still didnt think she owed this money as she said Barclays had told her it had made 
the credit permanent. So she didnt think it fair that it subsequently reversed the credit. And 
she asked this service to review her complaint.
Since referring her complaint to us, Mrs T told us that her daughter had now used the 
voucher for a ski trip but had to buy flights at an additional expense. 
I issued a provisional partially upholding this complaint and I said the following:
 There are two issues I need to consider here:
1. Was it fair for Barclays to reclaim the money it initially credited onto the credit card; and
2. The customer service given to Mrs T.
Handling of the transaction dispute
Mrs T disputed two transactions on her credit card which she wanted Barclays to refund. 
Barclays needed to consider whether a refund was payable under two means: 
1. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974; and
2. Chargeback.
I shall consider each point separately.
Section 75
Mrs T paid for festival package on her Barclays credit card. Section 75 sets out that in 
certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Barclays is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  in this case M.
But, as I said above, in order for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be 
satisfied  one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between 
the parties. In essence, the key here is that its the debtor who is entitled to make a claim 
against the creditor, and their claim against the creditor is the same as their claim against 
the supplier. So, if the debtor doesnt have a claim themselves against the supplier, they 
cant hold the creditor liable for any breach of contract with the supplier.
Mrs T paid for the festival package with her Barclaycard, so there is a contractual 
relationship between her and Barclays. But the contract with M was between M and her 
daughter. Mrs T didnt have a contractual relationship with M, so she didnt have a claim 
herself. So Barclays isnt liable under Section 75 for any breach of contract by M.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider look to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the individual card scheme provider. In this case the card provider was 
VISA.
The chargeback process can potentially go through three stages. Its ultimately at the 
discretion of the bank how and if to pursue the chargeback. But it must exercise this 
discretion fairly and reasonably and with a good consideration of the evidence it has 
available  both provided by the consumer and information readily available in the public 
domain:
1. The bank will initially process a chargeback granting the temporary refund and present 
the claim to the merchant. The merchant then has a number of days to defend the claim 
or accept it. If the merchant doesnt defend the claim, the temporary credit becomes 
permanent. However, if the merchant does defend the claim, its for the bank to decide 
whether to continue to pursue the claim to the next stage. In doing so, it may decide to 
request more information from the consumer, or it may decide it has enough information to make an informed decision. The bank will consider the merchants response and 
consider  whether the defence provided was a fair defence under the card scheme rules. 
If it does think as such, it may choose to not continue with the claim, at which point it will 
reverse the temporary credit.
2. However, if the bank decides there is still reasonable prospects of success, it will move 
to the second stage of chargeback  pre-arbitration. It will then represent the claim, 
setting out  why it didnt agree with the merchants defence and it may provide further 
evidence in support of the claim. As before, the merchant has a period of time to defend 
the claim. If the merchant defends the claim again, the bank will consider whether it 
should pursue the claim to the final stage  arbitration  or to close it.
3. Arbitration involves the card scheme provider reviewing the evidence and deciding the 
fair outcome to the claim.
In this case, Mrs Ts claim went to pre-arbitration. Barclays initially raised a chargeback on 
both transactions and the merchant defended both transactions. Barclays then presented the 
claim again, but this time, in August 2020, the merchant only defended the transaction for 
£1,769. And it said that Mrs Ts daughter had received a voucher for the amount paid as 
shed chosen to delay the date to the following year as opposed to receiving a refund. But it 
didnt defend the £300 transaction.
Due to the costs in doing so, a bank can be out of pocket when a claim goes to arbitration 
and is unsuccessful. So, with this in mind, banks are entitled to consider whether a claim has 
reasonable prospects of success in deciding whether to proceed to arbitration or not. 
Barclays has said it wasnt willing to incur the expense of pursuing the claim through 
arbitration because it didnt think there were reasonable prospects of success in this case. It 
was of the opinion that M has reasonably shown that Mrs Ts daughter had accepted a 
resolution to the dispute. It said that M could set out as a valid defence that the service was 
still available and the consumer had accepted the change of date.
I understand Mrs Ts viewpoint on the fairness of this, but I dont think I can say Barclays 
decision in respect to the prospects of success was unreasonable here. I acknowledge 
Mrs T has provided online statements from people whove had similar issues. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Barclays to say this isnt evidence Mrs Ts daughter asked for a 
refund. And I think it was fair for Barclays to take the evidence provided by M into 
consideration which suggested that, on balance, Mrs Ts daughter had accepted to postpone 
to the following year. So, taking everything into consideration, I dont think it was 
unreasonable to not take the claim to arbitration.
However, I acknowledge Barclays didnt tell Mrs T the claim wasnt successful for three 
months after M had defended the claim. Mrs T has queried whats the time limit for a bank to 
inform her it was going to reverse the credit. However, there is no definitive timeframe for 
when a bank must update a consumer. But I would expect a bank to inform its customer of 
the outcome of the claim as soon as reasonably possible. And I dont think three months is 
fair  especially given Mrs T asked for an update in September 2020. However, the fact 
there was a delay doesnt mean Barclays isnt able to reverse the credit. And its entitled to 
ask Mrs T to repay the £1,769.
Customer service
However, while I think Barclays is entitled to, require Mrs T to repay the £1,769, I do think it 
has caused her some avoidable distress and inconvenience. I can see Barclays incorrectly 
told Mrs T on two occasions  firstly on the telephone and then again in writing  that the 
chargeback was successful and the credit had been made permanent. I acknowledge this 
was an error and likely to have arisen because M didnt defend the £300 transaction. But 
Mrs T reasonably relied upon what Barclays told her and credited the money back to her bank account and I understand in turn she refunded her daughter. It then took Barclays 
nearly three months to correct its mistake.
I note Barclays has offered £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused, but I dont think this is sufficient. I think Mrs T has suffered more than minor distress 
and inconvenience in trying to put this right. And I think £300 is a fairer amount of 
compensation.
Barclays responded to accept my provisional decision. Mrs T said Barclays told her it had 
refunded the amount in full and final settlement of the claim, so queried how it could 
subsequently reverse that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Ts additional comment, but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in 
my provisional decision.
Ive re-read the letter Barclays said in September 2020. Barclays didnt say the money was 
paid in full and final settlement, but said the credit will remain on your account because we 
now consider this matter to be closed. As I said in my provisional decision, I can understand 
why Mrs T was unhappy to later learn about Barclays mistake. But it was a mistake and I 
dont think I can reasonably say Barclays is bound by this. And, for the reasons I set out in 
my provisional decision, I dont think I can reasonably require Barclays to cover this loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint 
and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs T a further £200 in compensation  in 
addition to the £100 it previously offered. I dont award anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman