DRN-3086099
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation also explains that goods should be durable. I dont think thats been 
the case here. The independent inspector that Mr C commissioned (who Ill call H) 
explained that engines of this type shouldnt require a rebuild for at least 150,000 miles and 
yet Mr Cs failed at less than 60,000.
Im not persuaded that the car failed because of anything Mr C did wrong. Its clear an oil 
change was due 1,600 miles earlier, but H has explained that the delayed first service, that 
took place 8,000 miles after it should have and before Mr C took receipt of the car, is of more 
importance because metal contamination would be at its highest in a new engine that was 
running in.
It was his opinion that it was more likely this delayed first service had produced most of the 
wear and I think his rationale is well set out and properly justified.
The second independent expert who MotoNovo commissioned, provided his comments 
having reviewed Hs report. He didnt see the car, nor did he see the oil report. It was his 
opinion that it was a coolant breach into the oil that had caused most of the damage and he 
thought that was most likely to have occurred in the last 2,000 miles of driving.
I think the first independent assessment is more persuasive on the cause of the engine 
failure. I say that because I find the rationale to be clearer; because the engineer saw the car 
and the oil analysis and also because Ive read Hs comments about the second inspectors 
concerns. I think hes been able to clarify why his opinion on the cause of the failure is more 
likely. 
I dont think there is sufficient evidence the failure happened because of anything Mr C had 
done. Neither inspector is suggesting the car failed because the oil change, due at 55,000 
miles, was a little late. Both inspectors say its because of contaminated oil. 
H suggests the delayed first service was likely to have been the cause of contamination that 
led to the engine failing and the second inspector says that it was coolant in the oil that 
probably led to the engine failing. Neither have suggested that contamination was of Mr Cs 
making and H has explained that the engine failed prematurely. I dont think the engine can 
fairly be considered to have been durable and I therefore think the car that was provided to 
Mr C was not of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Mr C paid for repairs to the car and I think it would be fair for MotoNovo to refund the £8,926 
those repairs cost. Theyll need to add interest to that refund.
The car broke down on 6 August 2020 and wasnt used again until 10 February 2021. So 
MotoNovo should refund any payments Mr C paid towards his finance agreement between, 
and including those dates, in respect of the loss of use Mr C experienced. 
Mr C has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to use an alternative car 
that wasnt always suitable for his needs during his partners pregnancy. Hes also had to 
take the car to the garage and to organise an independent inspection. And Mr C has also 
had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
In those circumstances MotoNovo should pay him £200 in compensation.
Mr C has explained that hes incurred some costs as a consequence of the car failing. I dont 
think its fair that he should have had to pay tax and insurance on a car he couldnt use and 
when a courtesy car wasnt provided. So, I think MotoNovo should refund the costs hes 
incurred for tax and insurance and I agree with the investigators calculation of that as 
£872.88. 
Mr C also paid £400 towards the first inspection and £164.65 for an early oil change after the 
rebuild. I think these costs were incurred as a consequence of the problems with the car and 
that MotoNovo should therefore provide a refund.
MotoNovo will need to apply interest to all refunds as Mr C has been deprived of that money.   
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
provide a refund of £8,926 in respect of the repairs completed. Add 8% simple 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments paid between 6 August 2020 and 10 February 2021 
(inclusive) and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund consequential costs for tax, insurance, oil change and inspection costs as 
detailed above. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr C £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Cs credit file in relation to 
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman