DRN-3985907
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Chequers Wealth Management Limited 
(Chequers) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr H approached Chequers in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand that Mr H was introduced to Chequers by an Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA) as he wanted to look at transferring some deferred benefits he had in a DB scheme. 
This IFA wasnt authorised to give pension transfer advice. 
Chequers completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances and 
objectives. This was very brief and is undated as far as I can see. It only seems to comprise 
one page and its not clear if Mr H had sight of it. Nevertheless, this showed that Mr H:
Was 43 years old and was recently divorced. 
Had three dependent children.  
Was a full time student, with a part time self-employment income of around £2,500 a 
year. He also received benefit income of around £14,000 a year. 
He lived in rented accommodation and didnt have any other savings, investments, or 
debts
Mr H was declared bankrupt in December 2015, he was discharged from this bankruptcy in 
December 2016. I understand he had problems getting employment after this which is partly 
why he returned to full time study. Chequers does not seem to have been aware of this at 
the time.
Mr H had deferred benefits in a DB scheme. This had a current value of £58,000 which was 
30% of the full value of the benefits. 70% of this pension had been assigned to Mr Hs ex-
wife as part of their divorce proceedings. 
Chequers also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it said was 
balanced. 
Chequers has provided a suitability report but its not clear exactly when this was issued. It 
advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension with a third party 
provider and invest the proceeds in one of its managed funds. This transfer went ahead in 
2016. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr H:
Wanted to look at taking the benefits from his pension arrangements flexibly in 
retirement. He did not want to be limited to taking a fixed amount of income or tax 
free cash.
Wanted to ensure his pension fund went to his children, or other nominated 
beneficiaries, rather than his ex-wife. He felt this was important as his ex-wife had 
received a large part of this pension as part of their divorce
In November 2018 Mr H transferred the personal pension into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) with a third party. This arrangement ultimately invested in a range of higher 
risk investments that are now much reduced in value. 
Mr H complained in 2021 to Chequers about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
that:
He was informed that the transfer would result in higher pension benefits.  
He felt the sale was pressured as it took place over one day and was possibly as 
short as 30 minutes. He was already under duress due to his personal situation and 
his related need for the pension to perform well. 
It was discussed that he should transfer the personal pension to a SIPP to improve 
the potential for growth after a few years. But this has resulted in the almost total loss 
of his funds. 
He says this reduction in his pension fund has caused a great deal of distress. He 
shouldnt have been given advice about a pension transfer when his life was in 
turmoil. 
Chequers didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said:
The advice to move to a personal pension was suitable for Mr H and met his needs 
at the time. 
His personal pension fund value had grown by a reasonably high amount before he 
switched it to a SIPP. This would have continued going forward and he had a good 
chance of improving on the DB scheme benefits.  
It wouldnt have recommended that Mr H move his pension to a SIPP so it shouldnt 
be responsible for any losses he may have suffered due to this. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Chequers pay compensation. He said that whilst there was a possibility 
that the transfer was financially viable, he didnt think Mr H had the capacity to risk his 
pension benefits. He was at a vulnerable point in his life, and this seemed to be his only 
asset. The reasons for the transfer seemed generic and werent persuasive. He thought that 
if Chequers had advised Mr H properly, he wouldnt have transferred. 
Chequers disagreed, saying: 
The initial advice was suitable for Mr H as he did want flexibility and the projected 
income from this pension was inadequate for him to live off on its own. 
The benefits he gave up were outweighed by the benefits he gained due to the 
transfer, and he could have used the fund as a deposit to purchase a property. 
He was on course to be better off in retirement due to the transfer before he moved 
the funds to a SIPP. 
The financial loss is wholly due to the reckless investment decisions taken after 
Chequers gave advice. 
There was some further correspondence, but the investigator wasnt persuaded to change 
their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Chequers' actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Chequers 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
The sales process in general
Mr H has said that the sales process was rushed and very brief. I think the documentation 
from the time of sale does support what he says. There was a very small amount of 
information gathered about his circumstances. And the information Chequers recorded about 
his objectives seems to be generic, that is they were objectives that would appeal to most 
people in most circumstances, rather than being specific to Mr H. 
And this should be contrasted with Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale. He was recently 
divorced, and he was not yet discharged from bankruptcy. Hed had to make significant 
changes, due to these factors. Added to this he was currently finding it difficult to find work 
and he was living in rented accommodation. He didnt have any savings or assets to fall 
back on. Because of this his financial, and personal, situations were precarious, and I agree 
he was vulnerable at the time of sale. It looked like his situation would remain like this for the 
foreseeable future. 
So Chequers should have looked in detail at Mr Hs situation and given thought to whether it 
this was the right time to give him advice on his pension planning. As a starting point, Im not 
persuaded that it was, and I dont think it was treating him fairly when it did give only pension related advice. Rather than, for example, any advice it could have given him to make his 
situation more stable. 
Ive borne this in mind when Ive thought about the advice that Chequers did give.  
Financial viability 
Chequers carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
Mr H was 43 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire between the ages 55 and 60. The 
critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 60 was 3.25% if he took a full pension 
and 3.11% if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Hs benefits at age 55 was 2.79% if he took a full pension and 1.79% if he took tax 
free cash and a reduced pension. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate was 5.3% per year for 16 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr H giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme.
Looking at the discount rates alone I think there was a possibility that Mr H could receive 
better benefits through the transfer.  But there was a risk that he may not. And Chequers 
said about this in the suitability letter:
It is therefore unrealistic to expect the transfer option to provide a secure income equal
to or better than the existing scheme, retaining within the existing scheme remains the
best option to provide a secure retirement Income although this option would not offer
flexibility which is required.
So, I think the most important consideration here was did Mr H have the capacity to take this 
risk and could he withstand receiving benefits of a lower overall value than the occupational 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. If this came to 
pass. 
As Ive outlined above, Mr Hs circumstances were very difficult. He had recently undergone 
some significant changes in his life and was in a precarious financial situation. This pension 
seemed to be his only financial asset. And it doesnt seem likely that this would change 
soon. So, I dont think that Mr H did have this capacity to take on this increased risk. And so, 
I think advising him to do this wasnt right. For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Chequers has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits, Chequers said that Mr H wanted greater 
flexibility with his pension arrangements and improved dependents benefits. Ive considered 
these below.
Flexibility
One of the main reasons that Chequers says that the advice was suitable for Mr H was that 
it could provide flexibility in his retirement. 
It wasnt recorded what Mr H needed in retirement. If he took benefits from the DB scheme 
at 60, he would be entitled to an annual income of just under £2,000, or tax free cash of 
£8,000 and an annual pension of £1,500. And he would receive his state pension in time. 
This may not have met Mr Hs total needs at retirement, but I think the guaranteed income 
from the DB scheme would have been useful to meet his retirement expenditure.  
But, overall, I dont think Mr H required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also 
cant see evidence that Mr H had a strong need for a variable income throughout his 
retirement. Neither of these seemed to have been discussed. 
Chequers has said that Mr H may have wanted to purchase a property with the tax free cash 
in due course. But I cant see a mention of this in the time of sale documents. And given 
what I know about his circumstances, this would have been a remote prospect at the time of 
advice. So, I dont think this would be a good reason for him to make the transfer, if it was 
discussed at the time of sale. 
Furthermore, Mr H was only 43 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr H had around 16 years before he would usually 
think about accessing this pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision 
about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr H to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr H later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. Particularly as Mr H may 
have indicated that he would like the benefits of his pension to go to his children rather than 
his ex-wife.  
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Chequers 
explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Its not 
clear what arrangements Mr H had with his ex-wife as part of their divorce, but Mr H did 
have dependent children. And so, the dependents pensions provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful if Mr H predeceased them. I dont think Chequers made the value of 
this benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. In any event, Chequers should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Chequers shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
I think Mr Hs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr H was not an 
experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr H  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Chequers recommended that Mr H invest in a managed fund. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr 
H should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in this fund 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the potential for different death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But 
Chequers wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. As our investigator said the reasons given for the 
transfer were based on very limited information and were seemingly generic. They dont 
seem to have taken into consideration the reality of Mr Hs circumstances and in particular 
his vulnerabilities at the time. 
So, I think Chequers shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Chequers' 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Chequers advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor with very low capacity for risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Hs retirement provision so far. So, if Chequers had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs need for flexibility was so great, if it existed at all, or that he 
wanted to increase his retirement income to the degree that, he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think 
it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Chequers had explained that Mr H could 
better meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Chequers should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Firm As responsibility for loss
As Ive outlined above Mr H transferred the investments at a later date into what look to be 
investments with a much higher risk. These have fallen significantly in value now and its not 
clear if he can access them. He was given advice by a third party Ill call Firm A to do this
Chequers has said that Firm A has separately caused Mr Hs loss. So, I have considered 
whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the loss to 
Chequers. In the circumstances, though, I think it fair to make an award for the whole loss 
against Chequers.
Chequers should not have recommended Mr H transfer out of his DB scheme. And it was 
only as a result of Chequers involvement that Mr H transferred the funds held in his DB 
scheme to the personal pension. Chequers role was pivotal, since the eventual investments 
were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mr H couldnt 
have invested as he did. So, in my view, the entirety of Mr Hs loss stems from Chequers 
unsuitable advice to transfer away from his DB scheme.
And as I said above, Ive had to bear in mind Mr Hs overall situation. This was a very 
vulnerable time for him and giving him advice to transfer was wrong. Hes said that he made 
the initial transfer, and the transfer to the SIPP, for the same reasons. That is, he wanted to 
ensure the highest returns possible to be able to live off the pension he had at retirement. Its 
not clear if Chequers discussed whether Mr H would transfer to a SIPP in the future, but I 
think the DB transfer advice set him on the path that enabled, and led to, his subsequent 
decision to move the funds again. 
So, for this reason also, I think holding Chequers responsible for the whole of the loss 
represents fair compensation in this case.
Our Investigator recommended that Chequers also pay M £600 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr H has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And from what he has said it seems reasonable to say 
that this is significant. Hes shown that his mental health, and general wellbeing, have been 
affected by this change in pension planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened 
but for the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Chequers unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Chequers may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date Chequers receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Chequers to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of Chequers. 
This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on 
the open market) as their value cant be determined. In this case either the investments have 
a very low value or they cannot be accessed. 
If the investments are illiquid, to calculate the compensation, Chequers should agree an 
amount with the SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP 
plus any costs, and take ownership of the investment. If Chequers is unable to buy the 
investment, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The 
value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include anything Chequers has paid into 
the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Chequers may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. 
Chequers will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Chequers asks Mr H 
to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr H wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Chequers taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr H can discuss 
with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Chequers pay Mr H an upfront lump 
sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). 
This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Chequers to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensationrequires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Chequers Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Chequers 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Chequers Wealth Management Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman