DRN-3301593
The complaint
Mr H complains about Nationwide Building Societys actions when he attempted to withdraw 
cash from his local branch.
What happened
Mr H held an account with Nationwide. In May 2020, Mr H phoned Nationwide to inform 
them that he would be withdrawing a large amount of cash from his account. The next day, 
Mr H spoke to his local branch who informed him that hed need to give 48 hours notice of 
coming to branch to ensure they had the cash available  and advised him to bring 
identification. Mr H arranged to withdraw the cash on 22 May 2020.
On 22 May 20202, Mr H went to his local branch. He explained to our service that he had to 
queue for over 35 minutes and then found out he couldnt withdraw the cash as his account 
had been locked. Mr H was upset about this  mainly due to the reason he couldnt 
withdraw the cash as hed wanted to, but also because hed been unnecessarily exposed to 
the Covid-19 virus. Mr H complained and said he had been made to feel like a criminal.
Nationwide responded to Mr Hs complaint. They said that their fraud team blocked Mr Hs 
account as it raised concerns due to the large withdrawal amount. Nationwide also explained 
that they wouldnt be comfortable with their customer walking around with this amount of 
cash. Nationwide confirmed that due to the increased in fraudulent activities, they made the 
decision to not allow the transaction to be made. Nationwide suggested that Mr H transfer 
his money to another account provider if he didnt want to leave the money in the Nationwide 
account. They apologised for the inconvenience and confirmed that they couldnt inform Mr 
H not to make the trip to his branch as at the time of the phone call to arrange the withdrawal 
of funds  the account hadnt been blocked. They offered £25 due to the inconvenience 
caused.
On 25 May 2020, Mr H was able to withdraw £500 in cash and transfer the remaining money 
in the account to a third-party account.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought Nationwide reviewing the account was in line 
with their legal and regulatory obligations. He was satisfied Nationwides review was linked 
to safeguarding  and didnt find there to have been any delays. While our investigator 
recognised the inconvenience of this happening during the pandemic, he explained that 
Nationwide still had a duty to protect their customers money  so he thought the £25 
compensation was enough.
Mr H responded to our investigators view and remained unhappy. He wanted to know how 
Nationwide minimised their risks and fulfilled their duty of care by protecting customers 
during the pandemic. We passed Mr Hs queries on to Nationwide. In the meantime, the 
complaint was also referred to me for a final decision as an agreement couldnt be reached.
Nationwide responded and confirmed that they carried out risk assessments for each 
branch. Some of the physical implementations included hand sanitisers being available, 
social distancing, the use of face masks and screens being installed by cash registers.
I reached out to Mr H in February 2022 and informed him of Nationwides response. In an 
attempt to resolve things informally, I also let Mr H know my initial thoughts. In summary, I 
explained that Nationwide have obligations which they must adhere to  and Im satisfied 
they reviewed Mr Hs account to meet these obligations. I also recognised that it would have 
been inconvenient to be without his money and had to wait three days to receive it, but I was 
satisfied that Nationwides actions were appropriate. I confirmed to Mr H that its not in our 
remit to comment on the policies or processes of Nationwide  and therefore cant comment 
on whether their protocols linked to the pandemic were enough or not.
Mr H responded and remained unhappy. He said he had pre-arranged the meeting with 
Nationwide and feels they could have cancelled it if their departments had communicated 
with each other. Mr H asked me to proceed with a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise this will come as a great disappointment to Mr H, Im not 
going to ask Nationwide to do anything differently. Ive explained further below.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman