DRN-2767759
The complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms M. The car here was about four 
years old and had already completed 52,321 miles. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
The engine failed on this car after Ms M had been in receipt of it for about four months. So, 
the onus is on MotoNovo to demonstrate the fault was not developing when the car was 
supplied.
I dont think MotoNovo have provided enough evidence that was the case. I say that 
because:
The independent report MotoNovo commissioned wasnt as comprehensive as the 
report Ms M commissioned. The engineer suggested that further strip down would be 
required to identify the cause of the problem and the inspector Ms M commissioned 
did carry out a more detailed inspection. I think, on balance, there is enough 
information to suggest the sludge, that was identified by Ms Ms inspector, was the 
cause of the engine failure and that the sludge was caused by the oil not being 
changed.
Whilst I understand MotoNovos inspectors comments that sludge can be caused by 
other issues and that the problem would have been apparent earlier, I still think its 
most likely the fault was caused by a failure to service the car correctly prior to 
supply. I think there is evidence that the fault was developing when Ms M took receipt 
of the car and that historic services had not been carried out: Ill explain.
Ms M emailed the dealership a couple of weeks after she took receipt of the car. She 
reported that the engine was tugging, and Ive not seen evidence that the dealership 
did anything about that. The dealership say that Ms M didnt allow them to inspect the 
car, but theyve not provided evidence of that and Ms M disputes it. I think its unlikely 
she would have reported a problem but subsequently refused to have it attended to. I 
think a report of the engine tugging is consistent with a subsequent engine failure 
and Im persuaded this was most likely a sign there was something wrong with the 
car when supplied.
I think theres evidence that this car wasnt serviced properly before it was supplied to 
Ms M. The inspector noted that the service display counter was set incorrectly and 
was asking for a service every 24 months or 80,000 miles when it should have been 
set for 12 months and 20,000 miles. I think its highly unlikely that Ms M would have 
been able to change the service display counter and I think its likely the wrong 
setting means that services hadnt been completed to the appropriate schedule 
before the car was supplied to Ms M. 
That supports the view of the engineer Ms M commissioned. He said It appears the 
car has not been serviced or maintained correctly since manufacture which
has led to catastrophic engine failure. I agree that seems the most likely cause of 
the problem Ms M has experienced with the car.
Im therefore persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied and that 
MotoNovo should take some action.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation says that if a fault is present on a car at the point of supply the 
business should be given one opportunity to repair it and Im persuaded MotoNovo should 
be given that opportunity. If that proves financially unviable, however; they may wish to allow 
Ms M to reject the car.
Ms M hasnt been able to drive the car since it broke down on 22 September 2020 so 
MotoNovo should refund any finance instalments shes paid since that date and until the car 
is repaired. They should add 8% interest to that refund as Ms M has been deprived of the 
money.
Its also clear that Ms M has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to use 
alternative transport and to arrange her own inspection of the car and shes had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances I think MotoNovo should provide £200 compensation in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
They should also refund the cost Ms M incurred to have the inspection completed if Ms M 
can supply a copy of the receipt to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited to:
collect, repair and return the car at no cost to Ms M;
refund any monthly instalments that Ms M has paid since 22 September 2020 and 
until the car is repaired and returned to her. Add 8% simple interest per year to this 
refund from the date of payment to the date the car is returned;
pay Ms M £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
refund the cost of Ms Ms independent inspection on provision of the receipt and add 
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman