DRN-1840419
 
complaint
Mrs D says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs D bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs D said that she cant recall much about the sale. Egg says the policy was sold over the 
internet. The application data that Egg has provided suggests to me that the policy was 
applied for over the internet. So Ive assessed the case on this basis.
I think Egg made Mrs D aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI and she chose to 
take it. I say this because Egg has given me screenshots to show what it says Mrs D would 
have seen when she took out her credit card. And this shows there was an option to select 
yes or no to the PPI. Based on what we know about Eggs sales processes at this time, 
Mrs D wouldve had to select the yes option for the PPI to be added. There was no 
automatic default option to include PPI. So I think Mrs D wouldve been aware that she had 
to make a decision about PPI at the time - even if shes forgotten this now. And I think shed 
have known at the time that she couldve declined PPI if she didnt want it.
Ive also noted that the statements that Mrs D would have seen show that she was paying 
for Credit Card repayment Protector. So, if Mrs D hadnt agreed to the cover at the time of 
the sale, I think these statements would have put Mrs D on notice that she was paying for 
something she suggests now she hadnt agreed to. And, in that circumstance, Id have 
expected Mrs D to have raised this with Egg many years before she eventually did. 
I dont think Egg recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. I say this because the sale of the PPI was over the internet and Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest Mrs D would have spoken to anyone at Egg or was given any 
recommendation. So, it was up to Mrs D to decide whether the PPI was right for her, taking 
into account her personal circumstances. So, I think Egg made Mrs D aware that she had a 
choice about buying the PPI and she chose to take it.  Egg had to provide sufficient information to Mrs D so that she could make an informed 
choice about the PPI. Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But 
based on what I know about Mrs Ds circumstances, I dont think better information would 
have stopped her from buying it.
I say this because Mrs D was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been 
affected by the main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think she could have found the policy useful. I say this because whilst Mrs Ds initial 
sick pay was good, it dropped significantly after six months, such that she might have had to 
use her modest savings if she was too ill to work. The PPI policy would have paid 10% of 
any outstanding credit card balance each month for up to 12 months if she was too ill to 
work, or if she lost her job. So as this would have been in addition to her sick pay, and would 
have paid out for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Mrs D. 
So I dont think that Mrs D lost out as a result of anything Egg might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman