DRN-4408618
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M approached Grove in December 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Grove completed a fact-find over the telephone to gather information about Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives. This showed that he was 47, married and with one dependent 
child. Both he and his wife were employed. They owned their own home which was subject 
to a mortgage, and they had some savings. It was noted that Mr M wanted to retire at the 
age of 60. Grove also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it said was 
cautious. 
In respect of Mr Ms pension arrangements, he had received a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) from the BSPS in July 2017 (I understand this would have been updated in 
September 2017). This showed that he had around 29 years service. He was entitled to an 
annual pension of about £16,000 at the date of leaving the scheme. The CETV was about 
£394,700. Mr M had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He 
was contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%.
In January 2018, Grove advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in line with his attitude to risk. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that he wanted to retire early and wanted some 
flexibility in his pension arrangements to do this. He wanted control of his pension and he did 
not want it to go into the PPF. 
Mr M complained in September 2022 to Grove about the suitability of the transfer advice. As 
far as I can see Grove didnt initially consider Mr Ms complaint and it didnt provide a final 
response. Following this Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Grove then reviewed Mr Ms complaint and decided to uphold it. It calculated compensation 
based on the regulators current compensation method at the time, FG 17/9. It said that Mr 
M should receive a compensation payment of £12,215.41, or a payment into his personal 
pension of £14,371.07. It also offered to pay Mr M £300 for the distress the poor advice 
caused him. 
However after this time Grove contacted Mr M, and his representative, to say that as the 
case was now with the Financial Ombudsman Service then it would like it to be reviewed 
and it withdrew its offer. Grove also indicated that the loss calculation hadnt been performed 
correctly, but it didnt provide any detail about why this was. 
An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Grove pay compensation. He 
was satisfied that the advice wasnt suitable for Mr M. He thought that if Mr M had been 
given correct advice, then he would have opted to join the BSPS2 and compensation should 
be based on this. And that an up to date and correct loss assessment should now be 
performed. And any compensation this showed should paid to Mr M, alongside £300 for the 
distress the poor advice has caused him. 
Grove responded saying that it agreed with what the Investigator said, and it would now 
provide an updated calculation. 
And not long after this the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator, began 
to provide access to a BSPS-specific redress calculator that it had developed. Both parties 
to the complaint have been informed that Im likely to award compensation based on this.
Grove completed a calculation using the new BSPS-specific redress calculator and it 
provided the details to both the Financial Ombudsman Service and Mr M and his 
representatives. It was noted that the calculation did not use the correct fund value for 
Mr Ms personal pension, the fund value used was higher, albeit by a small amount, than it 
should have been. This calculation showed that Mr M hadnt suffered a loss due to the 
advice. Grove paid Mr M the £300 our investigator recommended for the distress and 
inconvenience the advice had caused Mr M (by cheque). 
Our Investigator then recommended that Grove complete a new calculation, as at the current 
quarterly assumption dates, using a correct personal pension value. Grove didnt agree with 
this, it said that using the correct personal pension value would likely lead to a no loss 
outcome because the correct value was lower by around £1,000 but the calculation showed 
that the value of Mr Ms DB scheme was over £6,000 less than the personal pension. 
Grove ran a loss calculation at the current time, October 2023, as at April 2023, with the 
April 2023 personal pension value. This also showed that Mr M hadnt suffered a loss. 
However, this also isnt correct as the FCAs guidance is clear that a loss assessment should 
be performed using the most recent assumptions and data. In this case, this would have 
been a calculation as at the 1 October 2023, and using a fund value of the same date.   
So our Investigator still thought that it was reasonable that Grove provide a correct 
calculation to show whether or not Mr M had suffered a loss due to the unsuitable advice 
Grove had provided. 
Mr Ms representative has also said that it has faced problems in communicating with Grove 
and so it would like the certainty of outcome that a final decision would provide. Because of the factors above Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Grove has informed us that it accepted the Investigators view. And its agreed that the 
advice wasnt suitable for Mr M. And for the avoidance of doubt, I agree with all parties to the 
complaint that it wasnt in Mr Ms best interest to give up his DB benefits and transfer them to 
a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr M wouldve 
insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. As the suitability of the 
advice is not in dispute any longer, I will focus in this decision on the redress.
The aim is to put Mr M back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. Grove has carried out a calculation using a BSPS-specific 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
But this calculation wasnt entirely accurate, this is because it didnt use the correct fund 
value for Mr Ms personal pension. And whilst I accept what Grove has said in that a correct 
calculation may not show that Mr M has suffered a loss, I dont agree that this is a certainty. 
So, the complaint has come to me unresolved, and I need to say in my decision what Grove 
should do to put things right. 
I cant issue a final decision on the basis that it has been confirmed that Mr M hasnt suffered 
a loss when there isnt a correct calculation to support this. So, my decision is essentially 
that Grove should perform a loss assessment correctly and pay any compensation this 
shows that Mr M should receive.  
And I would urge all the parties to the complaint to co-operate, so this is done as soon as 
possible to give Mr M a resolution to this issue. Looking at the loss assessments already 
done I think Grove has all of the information it needs to complete this other than the value of 
Mr Ms personal pension as at the quarter date when the loss assessment is done. At this 
present time this is 1 October 2023. I would ask that Mr Ms representative obtains this as 
soon as possible and provides it either to Grove, or to the Financial Ombudsman, to pass on 
to Grove. 
Our Investigator recommended that Grove also pay Mr M £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Mr M said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
caused him stress and anxiety. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused concern in relation 
to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for employees of the company 
he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. 
And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair. I 
understand this has already been paid to Mr M by cheque. But it would be useful if Mr M 
could confirm he has cashed this.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given. 
Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Grove should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Grove 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Grove should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Groves offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Grove may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Grove should pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice caused 
him. If Mr M has already received this (by encashing the cheque) then it doesnt need to 
make a second payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr M the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman