DRN-2755566
The complaint
Mr H has raised several concerns about Zurich Assurance Ltd and his pension with it. In 
summary they are:
Hes unhappy with the responses received from Zurich in relation to information he 
had asked from it.
Hes unhappy that Zurich requires customers to contact it using a contact form. 
Hes unhappy with the investment performance of his pension.
What happened
In 1992 Mr H took out a free standing additional voluntary contribution scheme (FSAVC). He 
stopped making contributions into this plan in 1998. 
In 2002 the suitability of the FSAVC sold to Mr H was reviewed by Zurich. It concluded the 
FSAVC had been mis-sold and compensation was paid to Mr H.
In 2019 Mr H asked Zurich to provide him with information about his FSAVC. In October 
2019 Zurich wrote to Mr H. It enclosed details of the plan, a current value statement, charges 
information and a form to enable him to switch funds. 
In December 2019 Zurich wrote to Mr H in relation to his concerns about restrictions he had 
encountered when using its contact form. 
In January 2020 Mr H contacted Zurich He asked about taking some benefits from his 
FSAVC in the form of a cash lump sum. 
On 7 February 2020 Zurich wrote to Mr H to confirm that his request to take some pension 
benefits had been settled, and a lump sum payment had been transferred to his bank 
account. And it provided a breakdown of how the payment had been made. 
Mr H contacted Zurich to express dissatisfaction with several issues arising out of his 
pension claim. It responded to his concerns on 21 February 2020. Its response addressed 
three main issues. The first was in relation to he wasnt told where his claim form should be 
sent, and instructions being sent to him by e-mail. The second was in relation to him ceasing 
payments due to poor investment returns. He wanted compensation in relation to losses he 
thought he had suffered. The third issue related to the provision of a P45 document by 
Zurich to Mr H. Zurich explained why it wasnt upholding any of Mr Hs three complaints.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Zurichs response and asked our service to look into his concerns. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She explained why she wasnt 
upholding the complaint. Mr H wasnt happy with the response provided by the investigator. 
And he complained about the investigation that had been carried out. In particular he didnt 
think the complaint about the poor investment performance had been properly addressed. 
The investigator then carried some further investigations and wrote to Mr H again. She 
explained that Zurich had provided copies of the information it provided to Mr H in October 
2019 and the letter it wrote to him in response to a complaint in December 2019. As a result, 
she was satisfied Zurich had answered questions posed by Mr H. She didnt think the 
evidence suggested there were any issues with Zurichs IT systems. 
Mr H remained dissatisfied with the investigators assessment, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mr H has also made a complaint about not being provided with a P45/P60 
when he took a lump sum from his pension. And he has also complained that Zurich caused 
delays when he tried to take benefits from his pension and about whether Zurich had 
breached security protocols in the way it communicated with him. Hes also raised concerns 
about the way Zurich communicated with him on the telephone. Those complaints have 
been assessed as separate complaints. Im aware that ombudsman colleagues have issued 
final decisions in relation to those concerns.
Mr H has explained that he was paid compensation for the mis-selling of the FSAVC in 2002. 
Zurich has also told us that the sale of Mr Hs FSAVC policy was included in a regulatory 
review. Compensation was paid into the plan. So, the suitability of that recommendation has 
already been addressed. 
Its clear to me that Mr H is unhappy with how Zurich has interacted with him. And hes 
raised a number of concerns that Ive summarised above. But in reaching my decision, I 
havent commented on every point of concern Mr H has raised. I dont intend to offend him 
by doing so or mean any disrespect to him in taking this approach. Instead Ive focussed on 
the key issues I think I need to consider in deciding on whether or not Zurich has done 
anything wrong regarding the concerns Mr H has raised. 
Mr Hs concerns about the investment performance of his policy
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr H and Zurich have provided. First of all, I do 
understand Mr Hs frustration and disappointment at the value of his pension, particularly 
taking into account the length of time of his money has been invested. But the fact that Mr 
Hs fund hasnt grown as he would have hoped and expected, doesnt in itself mean the fund 
has been inappropriately managed by Zurich.
The value of Mr Hs policy is a function not only of the performance of any funds he is 
invested in, but also the effect on the value of his investments, of charges that are applied to 
the individual funds and to the policy itself. And in my experience, fund and policy charges 
can have a significant impact over time on the value of investments.
Mr Hs money has been invested in Zurichs Managed AP fund. This type of fund invests in 
a broad range of assets, including equities, property and fixed interest securities. And having 
reviewed the fund information sheet provided by Zurich, Im satisfied Mr Hs pension has 
been invested in a similar way. Ive also considered the performance information provided by 
Zurich. This indicates that the performance of the managed fund Mr H is invested in, has 
been significantly more than the annualised investment growth he has calculated. So, its 
understandable he is concerned about the investment performance of his FSAVC. 
Investment performance cant for the most part be guaranteed, unless as in some types of 
investment, a fund has some form of guarantee. And the value of investments can fluctuate quite significantly overtime, particularly if the investments are predominantly equity based, 
such as with Mr Hs managed fund. And as a result, investment performance for similar 
funds can vary between providers for a variety of different reasons. And it is for this reason 
this service doesnt generally comment on investment performance. 
Mr Hs FSAVC was taken out approximately 30 years ago. And the charging structure of 
pension arrangements has changed significantly over that time frame. As Ive already said, 
fund and policy charges can have a significant impact on a policy value over time. 
Zurich has explained the charging structure that applies to Mr Hs FSAVC. Its also provided 
information to Mr H about the charges that apply to his policy. Its referred to the different 
types of units that compromise Mr Hs pension plan. And its explained how the capital and 
accumulation units work within the plan. 
This type of arrangement isnt unusual in my experience for pension policies taken out in the 
early 1990s, which is when Mr Hs pension policy started. And the way these policies were 
designed, meant the impact of charges could be significant for plans such as these, when 
contributions stopped being made into the plan at an earlier point than was anticipated when 
the plan started. They are in my experience higher charging products than those generally 
available to investors today.
And in this case, Im satisfied that the charging structure of Mr Hs FSAVC has significantly 
impacted the value of the policy for the reasons Zurich has given. I say this because no 
contributions have been made into the pension since 1998. When Mr Hs FSAVC was taken 
out, it was assumed that contributions would be made into it over a long period of time. This 
has meant the policy was until 2015 made up of a significant proportion of high charging 
capital units. And Im satisfied that as a result of this, these unit charges will have had a 
significant impact on the value of Mr Hs policy.  
I do understand that Mr H is frustrated and disappointed by the value of his policy. But when 
his policy was taken out, Zurich were allowed to apply charges in this way, which were in line 
with the policy contract. And I have seen similar complaints where comparable charging 
structures to those found in Mr Hs policy, have had a similarly significant impact on policy 
values. And as a result, I dont think in Mr Hs case, Zurich has done anything wrong or is 
responsible for what he considers to be poor investment performance.
Mr Hs concerns that Zurich requires customers to contact it using a contact form
Mr H isnt satisfied with the information Zurich gave him when he submitted a claim to take 
benefits from his pension. And hes particularly unhappy with the way he was asked to 
communicate with Zurich. 
Mr H has expressed concern with how Zurich set out how he should contact it. And in 
particular hes unhappy it didnt provide a correspondence postal address and was frustrated 
by the limitations of the contact form on its website. Mr Hs concerns about not being 
provided with a postal address in respect of his pension claim, have been addressed by one 
of my ombudsman colleagues under our case reference ending -D9D3. And a final decision 
has been issued on that point. 
But in the context of this complaint, Mr Hs concerns relate to the lack of a postal contact 
address on the contact form. So, Ill address that specific issue. 
In considering this issue I want to make it clear that it isnt my role to tell Zurich how it should 
operate its business and the processes that it applies. But I can look at individual complaints. And it is in that context that Ive considered Mr Hs concerns regarding the contact form 
Zurich asked him to use to contact it.
First of all, I can understand Mr H found the problems he encountered using the form Zurich 
asked him to use to contact it, to be very frustrating. One of his concerns is that there was a 
limitation on the number of characters he could use to type out his message. I do understand 
that this must have been annoying for Mr H, but Ive not seen sufficient evidence that this 
limitation would have stopped him from explaining his enquiry to Zurich. I accept though that 
his question may have been shorter than he wanted it to be. 
Ive also thought about Mr Hs concerns that alternative ways of communicating werent set 
out on the contact form. I understand Mr H may not have wanted to telephone Zurich. But 
that facility was available to him to contact it. And I think if he had, he could have asked for 
details of alternative ways to communicate with it. 
Mr H is also concerned that postal contact details werent specifically set out on the contact 
form. Looking at the screenshot of the form Mr H has provided; I would agree with him that 
there isnt a specific postal contact address set out on the form. But the form does set out 
the head office address at the bottom of the form. So, I think Mr H could have written to 
Zurich at that address if he had wanted to. 
In summary from what Ive seen on the contact form provided, I think Zurich could have 
made alternative ways of contacting with it a little clearer. But in the particular circumstances 
of this case, Im satisfied that Mr H had enough information to enable him to contact Zurich 
using alternative methods of communication if that is what he wanted to do. 
Responses received from Zurich in relation to information Mr H had asked from it
Its not entirely clear what information Mr H asked Zurich to provide. In his e-mail to Zurich of 
23 December 2019, he said that his previously supplied questions remained unanswered 
and he had been provided with leaflets. Hes said that Zurich has provided him with generic 
information when hes made information requests to it. 
I can see from the information provided to me that Mr H wrote to Zurich on 22 October 2019. 
He said he had been in touch with Pensionwise. He asked for a written response in respect 
of a number of questions that he asked regarding his FSAVC. He wanted to know how the 
money was currently invested, what the charging structure was, the investment profile, any 
terminal bonus and other special features applicable to the plan. He also asked about any 
market value reduction (MVR) applicable to the plan and whether there were any 
safeguarded benefits. 
On 23 October 2019 Zurich wrote to Mr H following his request from for information. The 
letter provided information about the charges applied to the plan and a fund fact sheet. The 
fund value, plan summary and the fund details were also provided. It also confirmed that 
there werent any:
Special features
MVA
Guarantees of any kind
Guaranteed minimum pension
Guaranteed annuity rates
No safeguarding benefitsThe questions Mr H asked Zurich to answer were in my opinion, all sensible questions for 
someone who was thinking about taking pension benefits to ask. And I think the information 
Zurich provided answered the questions Mr H had posed to it. I understand that Mr H is 
dissatisfied with the responses he received from Zurich. But based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that it provided him with sufficient information to make an informed choice when 
taking benefits from his FSAVC. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Zurich Assurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman