DRN-3828457
The complaint
Ms K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited are refusing to provide her with a refund on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021, Ms K received policy renewal documentation through the post, relating to 
an annual, multi trip travel insurance policy. This was insured with Aviva. When she checked 
with Aviva, she found that the policy had been set up in 2019 and had automatically renewed 
in 2020. 
Ms K said she didnt set up this policy and thinks this is an error. And she has never received 
anything in the post to show she had the cover, until November 2021. Ms K says if she had 
received documentation, she would have cancelled the cover earlier. She therefore 
complained to Aviva about this issue and requested a refund of the premiums shed paid.
Aviva didnt agree it had done anything wrong. So, it refused to refund the premiums for the 
2019 and 2020 annual cover. It said that an insurance quote had been requested online and 
the policy accepted. Aviva also said that when the policy was set up, the option was chosen 
for online documentation only and so all information regarding the policy had been sent by 
email or to her Aviva account, rather than by post. But it did agree to refund the premium 
that had been taken for the 2021 policy year.
Unhappy with this, Ms K brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Aviva had shown that the policy 
was set up online and there was no evidence to show it had been fraudulently created. Ms K 
had access to her online account and so she could have found the details of the policy. And 
as Ms K had received emails regarding the policy, although they had been directed to a 
spam folder, she said Aviva had done what was required to inform Ms K of the automatic 
policy renewals.
Ms K disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms K. Rather it reflects the informal nature of 
our service, its remit and my role in it.
Ms K has said that she didnt ask for a travel insurance policy in 2019 and believes that 
Aviva has made a mistake. Ive therefore looked at the information provided by Aviva in 
relation to the sale of the policy.
 
Aviva has shown that a quote was created online and accepted a few minutes later. Im 
aware that there were several quotes, which Ms K has questioned. However, it isnt unusual 
for individuals to create a number of quotes when looking at insurance options, so Im not 
persuaded this is a reason to think there was an issue. 
Aviva has said that the print preference, which refers to how documentation or paperwork 
should be sent, was set to online only  meaning that postal information wasnt to be issued. 
However, Aviva has also confirmed that the information was available on Ms Ks online 
account, which it says was accessed less than an hour after the policy was purchased.
I appreciate that Ms K is insistent that she didnt request any quotes or set up this policy. 
However, I havent seen any evidence which leads me to believe that there has been any 
error when creating this policy. In any event, the information about this cover would have 
been available on Ms Ks Aviva account, which she appears to have accessed during this 
time period, and in addition the payment for the policy would have shown on her bank 
statements. If Ms K didnt take out this policy, I think she would have seen this either on the 
online account or queried this new direct debit with her bank at the time. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Ms K did set up this policy, although I fully understand that, due to the 
passage of time, she may not remember this now. 
Ms K says she always requests postal documentation and if paperwork had been sent to her 
earlier, she would have cancelled the cover. I do appreciate Ms Ks frustration, but as Aviva 
has explained, the preference for all documentation was selected as online only  so it didnt 
send her the paperwork by post. I understand Avivas system is designed to recognise if an 
email bounces back or isnt accessed within a certain timeframe and then send out a postal 
version  this is what happened in 2021. I dont think it would have been right for Aviva to 
just ignore the preference selected when the policy was taken out, so I think Aviva acted 
correctly by sending information using online methods in the first instance. 
Aviva sent reminders of the automatic renewal by email, in line with this preference, and I 
understand Ms K has been able to locate those emails. Unfortunately, the emails were 
directed to a separate folder via the spam filters on her email account, which is why she 
didnt see this correspondence until more recently - but this isnt anything that Aviva would 
have had control over. Im satisfied Aviva has fulfilled its requirements to send written 
information regarding the renewals.
So, on balance, when taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Aviva has acted 
unreasonably. Ive not seen evidence to suggest that the policy was set up by Aviva in error. 
Aviva has provided Ms K with the appropriate information about the policy and automatic 
renewals, using the preferences selected at the time of the policy set up. Im not of the 
opinion that there are reasonable grounds for me to instruct Aviva to refund the premiums for 
the first two years of cover. So, I dont require Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 Jenny Giles
Ombudsman