DRN-4238597
The complaint
Mr O complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) settled a claim brought against his 
motor insurance policy by a third party.
What happened
Mr O had motor insurance underwritten by Tesco. Another driver said that Mr Os car had 
collided with their car in a car park. Mr O said that he had not. Tesco decided that Mr O 
wouldnt be able to prove in court that he wasnt responsible for the damage to the other car. 
So Tesco settled the claim. 
Mr O wasnt happy about this and complained to Tesco. Tesco said that having fully 
considered the information available from all parties involved it regretted that it had no 
alternative but to deal with the matter on the basis that Mr O was responsible as it had been 
presented with an image showing his vehicle in contact with the other driver's. Tesco said it 
must consider what decision would be made if the case was contested and went to court.
Mr O wasnt happy with what Tesco said and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He said based on the information Tesco provided, it had fully 
considered the circumstances of the claim, and decided it would be unable to defend the 
case in court. The investigator didnt believe that Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
reaching this decision. 
Mr O wasnt happy with the investigators response and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr O says he has lost his no claims discount and has had to pay more for his insurance. 
Mr O says the whole claim was a fabrication and he wants it removed from his records.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Os motor insurance policy with Tesco said:
In dealing with any claim under the terms of this policy we may:
carry out the defence or settlement of any claim
This is a common clause in motor insurance policies and it means that an insurer can decide 
how to deal with a claim made against a consumers policy by a third party. And the insurer 
can decide to contest the claim or accept liability. In this case I can see that Tesco obtained 
information from Mr O and from the third party insurers to try to establish what happened, 
including a photo from the other driver appearing to show the two cars in contact. Tesco also 
obtained engineers reports about both cars which showed some damage to both. 
Our investigator has explained to Mr O that it is not our role at this service to decide who is 
at fault in an accident. Rather we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably 
and in accordance with the terms of the policy. I think that Tesco did act reasonably in 
obtaining information about what happened, and when Mr O complained it reviewed all the 
information again. However the third party insurers had instructed solicitors and intended to 
pursue the matter in court. Tesco decided that Mr O wouldnt be able to show that the 
accident wasnt his fault and the likelihood was that he would lose.
I think in the circumstances this was a fair and reasonable decision and in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. So I wont be asking Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman