DRN-4002021
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd declined their claim and 
avoided their home insurance policy following a claim for an escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had home insurance that was underwritten by Accredited. They took the policy 
out in July 2020 and it renewed the following year. 
In November 2021 they made a claim after an escape of water from their loft caused 
damage to the rooms below. Accredited initially accepted the claim however in the course of 
investigating it, it raised some concerns. 
In March 2022 Accredited wrote to Mr and Mrs C to say it was declining their claim and 
avoiding their policy (cancelling it as if it never existed) up to the 2021 renewal. It said that 
Mr and Mrs C had made misrepresentations when they took out the policy. It said they had 
understated the value of their contents significantly and hadnt declared a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) that had been registered against Mrs C. It said if they had given the 
correct information at inception and renewal then it wouldnt have offered a policy, so it was 
entitled to avoid their policy and not cover the claim. 
It also said it had concerns about the claim being exaggerated and a conversation Mrs C 
had with one of its contractors where it was alleged that she asked him to commit fraud. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this and made a complaint. They said that the value of 
their clothes and textiles had been significantly overestimated by the company that reviewed 
them as part of the claim. And this is why it appeared they hadnt bought sufficient cover for 
their contents. And Mr C said he wasnt asked about CCJs when he took out the policy, just 
about bankruptcy. They were also unhappy with Accrediteds allegations about the claim 
being exaggerated and the conversation with the contractor. Mr C said he was there when 
the conversation took place and the contractor had misunderstood what Mrs C was saying. 
And he said there was no evidence the claim had been exaggerated. 
Accredited didnt uphold their complaint so they brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that Accredited had 
done enough to show that the value declared for the contents was significantly less than the 
true value, and that it wouldnt have offered the policy if Mr and Mrs C had provided a 
reasonable estimate at inception and renewal. He therefore thought it fair that it avoided their 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said there wasnt enough evidence from the textile 
company to show that its valuation of their items was accurate. And they thought the value 
was significantly lower than what it had stated. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accredited has said it avoided Mr and Mrs Cs policy for two reasons  because of an 
undisclosed CCJ and because the value of their contents was much higher than they had 
declared. I need to consider whether its acted fairly and reasonably by avoiding the policy. 
While Accredited had provided two reasons why they avoided the policy, if I think one of 
these is enough for it to fairly avoid the policy then thats enough for me to say it acted fairly 
and reasonably overall. 
Ive started by considering the value of Mr and Mrs Cs contents. I first need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs C provided a reasonable answer to the question they were asked when 
they took out and renewed the policy, based on the information they had available. 
Accredited has provided me with a screen shot of the question and additional information 
provided at the point the policy was taken out. The question asked was as follows:
How much would it cost to replace the entire contents of your home as NEW (including all 
valuable and high risk items)?
The website also provides the following additional information:
This should be sufficient to cover the cost of replacing as NEW all of the furniture, 
furnishings and personal possessions covered by the policy e.g. carpets, curtains, clothes, 
furniture, electrical appliances etc.
It goes on to say:
Important! If you do not insure for the full amount, you may find that in the event of any loss 
your claim will not be settled in full.
In answer to this question, Mr and Mrs C entered £50,000. 
As part of the claim, Mr ad Mrs C claimed for a large number of textiles and items of clothing. 
These were sent to a textiles expert to review and assess whether they could be repaired or 
would need replacing. The company listed 1,881 items and valued these at over £140,000 if 
replaced. 
This service undertsands it is very difficult to accurately estimate the value of contents in 
your home, and therefore we wouldnt expect a policyholder to be able to know exactly how 
much everything would add up to. And we recognise that due to variations in cost and value, 
theres likely to be a range of reasonable answers to the question. So I have to consider 
whether the answer given was within a range of reasonable answers.
Here, the textiles and clothing only form a part of the total contents of Mr and Mrs Cs home. 
The figure entered was to cover all contents, including textiles and clothing, and the value of 
the textiles and clothing alone significantly exceeds the amount entered. Ive considered this 
and its enough to persuade me that the value of £50,000 wasnt a reasonable estimate for 
the value of Mr and Mrs Cs contents. Im therefore not persuaded they provided a 
reasonable estimate. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs C have said about the accuracy of the textile experts 
valuation. Theyve said that they bought a lot of the items in multipacks and from inexpensive retailers, which meant the items were much cheaper overall, and the company 
hasnt taken this into account. Theyve also provided screen shots and photos as examples 
of the price of some of the items. 
While I appreciate there will be some variance in the cost of items, dependent on where and 
how theyre bought. This isnt enough to persuade me that the £50,000 set as the sum 
insured for contents was reasonable. The company that did the valuation are experts in 
textiles and examined the items by hand, including assessing the quality and material. So 
Im persuaded its valuation is likely to be reliable. Further, while Mr and Mrs C have provided 
some prices and screenshots, this is for a few items out of nearly 2,000. And I dont find 
these to be more persuasive than the valuation of a professional expert. 
And even when taking into account possible variances in cost, the valuation from the textile 
expert is significantly higher than the total value of contents given by Mr and Mrs C. So I 
dont think this alone would reasonably account for the difference.
Based on this, I dont think the estimate Mr and Mrs C provided for the value of their 
contents was within a range of reasonable estimates, based on the value of their clothes and 
textiles alone. And based on the volume of items, and the fact a number are made of more 
expensive materials, I think they ought to have known the value of these items alone would 
have beeen higher than £50,000.
Accredited has provided an extract from its underwriting criteria that shows that if Mr and 
Mrs C had provided a reasonable estimate of the value of their contents, then it wouldnt 
have offered them a policy. Because of this, Im satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably by 
avoiding their policy and declining the claim. 
While Accredited has referred to other reasons why it avoided the policy and could have 
declined the claim, as Im satisfied it acted fairly based on the value of the contents, Ive not 
considered these other points.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman