DRN-2439024
The complaint
Mr Z has presented a complaint about Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) and about a Third-Party 
Company (the TPC) into which he says he invested through Plus500. This decision 
addresses his complaint about Plus500. He says Plus500 deleted a trade he placed on 28 
April 2020; that it unfairly closed his account (in May 2020, effective June 2020), with 
detriment to his trading opportunities and to his investment in the TPC, even though he 
broke none of its platforms rules; and that it has unfairly withheld funds in his account.
What happened
Plus500 disputes the complaint. It found that four Oil based trades were opened in Mr Zs 
account as of 09:30 on 28 April  not five such trades as he alleges. It says its system 
records all trades placed, executed, rejected, cancelled and/or edited; its system does not 
delete trades and its staff do not have access to alter trades; account activity evidence 
supports its findings; and Mr Z has not been able to show evidence to the contrary. 
With regards to the closure of Mr Zs account, Plus500 says it received a substantial amount 
of emails from him  in succession and going far beyond his complaint  which it considered 
to be erratic and concerning. For these reasons it decided to apply section 22.6 of the terms 
agreed for his account which permits it to close an account with or without reason. By notice 
dated 27 May it closed his account and gave him the requisite 14 days notice (which expired 
on 10 June). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she said:
The majority of Mr Zs complaint submissions is about the TPC. However, only the 
part of the complaint relevant to Plus500 can be addressed  because Plus500 is 
not, and is not connected to, the TPC; and because this service can only address 
complaints about regulated firms and the TPC is not a regulated firm.
Mr Zs claim for loss in the TPC is unrelated to Plus500 because the latter does not 
share a relationship with the former. In addition, the claim is mistaken in its 
references to an investment and a shareholding in the TPC because Mr Z traded 
Contracts for Differences (CFDs) based on the TPCs shares, so no investment in 
those shares actually happened.
Account activity evidence from Plus500 does not show the missing trade that Mr Z 
says Plus500 deleted.
Plus500 closed Mr Zs account in line with the agreed terms for such closure and it 
gave him the notice required by those terms. Mr Z sought more time for his trades 
(related to the TPC) but Plus500 was not obliged to delay the account closure for that 
reason.
Mr Zs trading account was based on an execution only service. He opened it in May 
2019 and within the account opening process he confirmed previous experience in 
trading leveraged products and education and work experience in the financial 
services industry during the preceding three years. The terms for the account also 
informed him on how CFDs worked. In light of this, it was reasonable for Plus500 to 
determine that the account was appropriate for him and the terms made it clear to 
him that trading CFDs is not the same as buying shares.
Mr Z did not accept any part of this outcome and he maintained his claims about Plus500 
and about the TPC. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The TPC
I have read and understood Mr Zs claims about the TPC. As noted by the investigator, he 
has presented those claims as being based on investments in the TPCs shares. He does 
not appear to have accepted the investigators view that such basis is incorrect, given that 
he traded CFDs based on those shares and given that those CFDs did not amount to actual 
investments in the shares. 
Mr Zs submissions about the TPC, about alleged misconduct by the TPC and about loss he 
incurred investing in the TPC are extensive. They are indeed the majority of the submissions 
he has made to this service. They also feature in his correspondence rejecting the 
investigators view. He has drawn a connection between Plus500s closure of his account 
and loss he says he incurred from his investment in the TPC and he also appears to suggest 
that there is a wider connection which makes Plus500 partly complicit in his wider claims 
against the TPC.
With regards to Mr Zs direct claims against the TPC, I consider them wholly outside the 
present complaint. I acknowledge that his complaint form refers to both Plus500 and the 
TPC, but Plus500 is of course limited to being the respondent to the part of the complaint 
that is relevant to it. Plus500 cannot reasonably be expected to answer any claims he might 
have or he might consider that he has against the TPC  and I do not consider that it should. 
In terms of the part of the complaint relevant to the TPC I echo the investigators findings  
the TPC is not in the regulators register as a regulated firm and this services remit is limited 
to addressing complaints about regulated firms, so we do not have the power to address a 
complaint about the TPC.
Where Mr Zs allegations suggest or say that Plus500 shares responsibility for the complaint 
he has about the TPC, I do not consider that evidence supports him. In straightforward 
terms, I have not seen evidence of any connection between both firms. Plus500 provided the 
trading platform on which Mr Zs CFD trades in the TPC were executed, but it did not advise 
those trades and nothing has been presented to show it held (or holds) an interest in those 
trades. 
Overall, Mr Zs complaint about the TPC cannot be addressed by this service and any 
allegation that Plus500 is partly responsible for that complaint is without evidence. With 
regards to his claim about closure of his account causing losses in his CFD trades (based on 
the TPC), I address this below. 
The Plus500 account
This service has been given the following: 
A copy of the information submitted by Mr Z in the course of assessing 
appropriateness of the account (for him) in 2019. Within it, he confirms previous CFD/leveraged trading experience in the three years prior to his application for the 
account; he refers to an average leverage size of 1:2  1:25 in that experience; he 
refers to professional education and work experience (relevant to CFDs and 
leveraged trading) in the financial services industry during the previous three years; 
he refers to capacity to put £5,000-£20,000 per year at risk; and he confirms an 
intention to trade daily (intraday) in the account.
A copy of the Risk Disclosure Notice (RDN) given to Mr Z as part of his on-boarding 
and as part of the terms he agreed for the account. This document provides detailed 
information about the nature of and risks inherent in CFD trading.
Given the execution only service in the account, Plus500 was obliged to conduct an 
assessment of whether (or not) the account was appropriate for Mr Z. An appropriateness 
assessment is based on information, from a client to a firm, that a firm uses to determine 
whether (or not) the client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved in the service or product offered by the firm. The firm should obtain information 
about the type of service(s) and investment(s) the client is familiar with and about the nature, 
volume, frequency and length of the clients experience in the familiar service(s) and 
investment(s). 
The regulators Handbook includes a Conduct of Business Sourcebook which, at COBS 
10A.2.6, says  An investment firm shall be entitled to rely on the information provided by its 
clients or potential clients unless it is aware or ought to be aware that the information is 
manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. 
Plus500 appears to have relied upon Mr Zs responses to its assessment questionnaire and I 
have not seen evidence that it was aware  or ought to have been aware  that any of the 
information he gave was unreliable (that is, out of date, inaccurate or incomplete). Those 
responses, as summarised above, presented him as an applicant with personal and 
professional knowledge and experience in trading CFDs within the three years prior to his 
application. Plus500 concluded that the account was appropriate for him and, based on the 
evidence in his responses, I consider that it was reasonable for it to draw that conclusion. It 
is also the case that RDN would have informed him about the nature of and risks within CFD 
trading, so he was made aware of that at the outset.
Closure of Mr Zs Plus500 account
I have considered the contents and frequency of the correspondence from Mr Z to Plus500 
which the latter says it found concerning. I do not consider it necessary to quote the relevant 
contents. It is sufficient to say that they featured Mr Zs views, advice and, sometimes, 
threats about his complaint but also, and seemingly more so, his views, advice and, 
sometimes, threats about matters remote to his account, remote to Plus500 and even 
remote to trading and/or investments. His motives are not clear from the available evidence, 
but, for the reason given directly below, I do not consider it necessary to explore or 
determine such motives. 
Mr Zs communications were enough to prompt Plus500s concern and I am satisfied that, 
based on evidence of the correspondence, its concern was reasonably held. Section 22.6 of 
the agreed terms permitted Plus500 to terminate its service and to close an account with 14 
days notice (with or without cause to do so). In the context of appropriateness, I consider it 
had reasonable cause to close Mr Zs account. It could not have fairly reconciled its concern 
about his correspondence with ongoing operation of his account. 
The 14 days notice period gave Mr Z the opportunity to manage and/or mitigate his open 
trades and to ensure they were closed by the end of the notice period. I can understand if, 
as it appears, he considered that insufficient time. However, this provision was binding upon him and Plus500 was not obliged to extend the notice period. It might also be worth 
considering that outcomes of trades cannot be predicted, so whilst Mr Z considers that his 
open trades would have benefitted from more time, at the time the notice was given no-one 
could guarantee that.
Given the above finding, it follows that Mr Z  alone  was responsible for managing his 
open trades during the notice period and was responsible for those trades in general. I 
appreciate that he views the closure as the cause (wholly or partly) of the loss he claims 
from his trades, but I do not accept that view. Performance of the trades was neither defined 
nor controlled by Plus500 or by its closure notice or by closure of the account. If Mr Zs claim 
is that the closure prevented him from maintaining or managing trades over the period of 
time he would have liked to, that was a risk he undertook in opening the account based on 
terms which included section 22.6  and it should be noted that termination clauses like 
section 22.6 are not uncommon in the sector.
Available evidence does not show that, subsequent to the account closure, Plus500 has 
withheld any funds rightfully belonging to Mr Z.
The Oil Trades
The strength of feeling held by Mr Z about the alleged missing Oil trade is clear, but the 
opposite applies to evidence in support of the allegation. No such evidence, other than his 
recollection, has been presented by him. In contrast, we have been provided with account 
activity evidence of only four  not five (as he claims)  Oil trades placed in the account as of 
21:30 on 28 April, and then a fifth trade opened at 03:19 on 29 April. Mr Zs allegation is 
firmly based on having opened five such trades as of 21:30 on 28 April, so the fifth trade 
opened in the early hours of 29 April becomes irrelevant. Without a balance of evidence to 
support his allegation it cannot reasonably be upheld. On balance, I consider that evidence 
of the trading activities in his account and of the relevant four trades outweighs his memory 
of a fifth trade  so his claim is not upheld. For the sake of completeness, I have not seen 
evidence that Mr Zs trading and/or his trading records have been manipulated in any way 
and I have not seen evidence that a fifth trade was or could have been deleted.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman