DRN-2169245
The complaint
Mr E complains that Fund Ourselves Limited trading as Fund Ourselves lent to him 
irresponsibly. He has also complained about interest charges associated with the loans.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr E was given 3 loans by Fund Ourselves in February 2019. All the loans were instalment 
loans, due to be repaid in four instalments. I understand loans 1 and 2 are closed but loan 3 
is outstanding.
A summary of Mr E's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 13/02/2019 18/02/2019 4 £500
2 18/02/2019 19/02/2019 4 £500
3 19/02/2019 Outstanding 4 £500
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Fund Ourselves needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income 
and expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship. 
I said that Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay 
his loans  not just whether the loan repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. The loan repayments being affordable on this basis might of course be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't 
automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Fund Ourselves carried out some checks before it lent to Mr E which included asking for 
details of his income and normal expenditure and carrying out some credit checks. I thought 
that the checks Fund Ourselves did before agreeing the first two loans were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Mr E had thought that Fund Ourselves should have carried out better checks, in particular 
before he was given the second loan. Mr E repaid his first loan after 5 days and then 
borrowed again. But I didnt think that, when he applied for his second loan, Mr Es 
borrowing and repayment behaviour had established a pattern that would reasonably have 
indicated to Fund Ourselves that he was facing serious problems managing his money. Or 
reasonably suggested to Fund Ourselves that it ought to decline his application for a second 
loan.
Given what Mr E had told Fund Ourselves about his circumstances, the amounts that he 
needed to repay in relation to loans 1 and 2, compared with the disposable income hed 
declared, and the number of loans agreed at this early point in the lending relationship, I 
didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for the lender to ask Mr E for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first two loans. I thought it was reasonable for Fund Ourselves to make its lending 
decision based on the information Mr E had provided and what it found in its checks. I didnt 
think greater checks were appropriate at the time. And I didnt think it had reached the point 
where I thought the lender ought to have been independently verifying the information Mr E 
was providing about his finances by, for example, asking to see copies of his bank 
statements.
I said I appreciated that Mr E says his financial situation was much worse, but he hadnt 
appeared at that point to have shared his financial problems with the lender. And I didnt 
think it was something that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have 
uncovered. So I couldnt fairly conclude that Fund Ourselves was wrong to provide the first 
two loans to Mr E. So I didnt intend to uphold his complaint about these loans.
However, when Mr E applied for his third loan, I thought Fund Ourselves should reasonably 
have been alerted that there were indications that Mr E might be having some difficulties 
managing his finances. And that it was reasonable to carry out more thorough checks before 
agreeing to lend any further.
This is because Mr E had, for the second time, repaid his loan significantly ahead of 
schedule, but then immediately borrowed again  his third loan in the same month. Loan 1 
had a term of 122 days but Mr E repaid it within a few days. Loan 2 had a term of 117 days 
but Mr E repaid it the day after he had taken out the loan  and then applied for loan 3 on the 
same day. I said that I appreciated that Mr E managed to repay his first 2 loans early, but I 
didnt think successfully repaying his loans automatically means that he managed to do so 
sustainably. I thought by the time he applied for his third loan his rapid repayment and 
borrowing behaviour should have caused some concerns for the lender as it could have 
been a signal that he was having financial difficulties - for example, borrowing in order to 
repay other debt.
Taking things as a whole, I thought Fund Ourselves should reasonably have been 
concerned about this consumers financial situation; that he might be having difficulties 
managing his finances and so a decision to lend again should reasonably warrant further 
checks. I thought Fund Ourselves should reasonably have taken steps at that point to further 
investigate and independently verify at least some of the information that Mr E was providing 
about his financial position - to satisfy itself that he could repay his third loan sustainably, 
over the full loan term.
Mr E had provided us with copies of his bank statements so I could determine what Fund Ourselves might have discovered, if it had carried out more thorough checks at the time. Mr 
E was borrowing from a number of other short-term lenders and his account shows other 
signs of financial distress, including regular betting transactions. I thought its likely that with 
better checks Fund Ourselves would have discovered the extent of Mr Es financial 
problems. I thought it ought reasonably to have concluded that he was having serious 
difficulties managing his money and that he was most likely borrowing to gamble and to 
repay other lending - and would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan 
from Fund Ourselves.
I thought the lender ought reasonably to have realised that Mr E was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay his third loan and concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him. So I 
said I was intending to uphold Mr Es complaint about this loan.
Mr E had also complained that the interest charged on his loans was too high. And that 
interest charges should have been frozen or written off when a repayment plan was set up in 
relation to the outstanding loan 3. Fund Ourselves said it did not add any default charges in 
respect of loan 3 or late repayment fees but made Mr E aware that the interest would be 
recalculated based on the new repayment plan which could cost more in the long run. Fund 
Ourselves said that under the repayment plan the total amount of interest charged on the 
loan would increase by around £40.
From what I had seen, I thought its likely that Mr E was aware that he was taking high cost 
short-term loans that carried a high interest rate. I understood why Mr E wanted the interest 
charges to be frozen when he ran into difficulties repaying loan 3, but I hadnt seen anything 
which made me think that Fund Ourselves treated him unfairly or breached industry practice 
regarding interest charges. But in any event, the interest and charges would be removed 
from loan 3 as I didnt think Fund Ourselves should have provided this loan to Mr E.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Mr E has told us he 
accepts my provisional decision. I havent received any further comments or evidence from 
Fund Ourselves, in response to my provisional decision. The deadline for any further 
responses has now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank Mr E for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision:
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about loans 1 or 2 or his complaint that he was 
treated unfairly in relation to interest charges.
But I dont think that Fund Ourselves should have agreed to provide loan 3. So Fund 
Ourselves needs to put things right for Mr E.
Putting things right
I understand loan 3 remains outstanding. Fund Ourselves should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mr E in respect of any outstanding balances - bearing in mind 
the need to treat him with forbearance and due consideration in those discussions.
If Fund Ourselves has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Fund Ourselves isnt able to buy the debt back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Fund Ourselves should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan 3, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr E as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
this loan.
If this results in Mr E having made overpayments then Fund Ourselves should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated above should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Fund Ourselves should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with him - bearing in mind the need to treat Mr E positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
Fund Ourselves should remove any adverse information about loan 3 from Mr Es 
credit file. If Fund Ourselves has sold the outstanding loan 3 it should ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same. Fund Ourselves does not have to remove the outstanding 
loan from Mr Es credit file until it has been repaid, but it should still remove any 
adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HMRC requires Fund Ourselves to take off tax from this interest and provide Mr E with a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he requests one. If Fund Ourselves intends 
to use the refund to reduce the amount Mr E owes, it must do this after tax.My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Fund Ourselves Limited 
trading as Fund Ourselves to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman