DRN-4154004
The complaint
Mr H complained about the advice given by one of Frank Corrigan & Co. Limiteds (Frank 
Corrigan) advisors to transfer the benefits from his ex-employers defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme (DB pension) to a personal pension. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr H is being represented by a claims management company. For ease I will just refer to 
Mr H.
What happened
The advice and transfer took place in 2007. Mr H was contacted about transferring the DB 
pension as his ex-employer was looking to reduce its exposure to future pension liabilities 
and to finalise their liability. The ex-employer was offering to enhance the transfer value of 
the DB pension by approximately £57,000 if Mr H decided to transfer it. Mr H was essentially 
given three choices:
to remain in the DB pension
to transfer the DB pension to another pension  with the enhancement being paid into 
the new pension, or
to transfer the DB pension to another pension  with the enhancement being paid to 
Mr H.
A transfer analysis (TVAS) report was completed which said:
the DB pension would pay Mr H £8,748 per year from age 65
the transfer value of the DB pension with the enhancement was just over £114,000
the critical yield (the amount the new pension needed to grow by in order to match the 
DB pension benefits) on £114,000 being transferred was 6.7% if Mr H took a full pension 
(ie without taking any tax-free cash) from age 65.
Mr H approached Frank Corrigan in May/June 2007 to discuss his pension and retirement 
needs. Frank Corrigans notes at the time refer to the enhancement and a deadline of the 
end of June for Mr H to make his decision. I understand several discussions took place. On 
15 June the advisor wrote to Mr H. He gave information about transferring  in summary, this 
was basic information about the consequences of transferring and the suggestion of a 
particular pension provider. The advisor said the main benefit of transferring would be to 
negate Mr Hs insecurity over the DB pension and to take the incentive being offered.
Frank Corrigan later completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs circumstances 
and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be medium.
On 5 July the advisor wrote to Mr H to confirm the advice and the reasons for the 
recommendations. In summary, he said transferring the DB pension without the incentive 
wouldnt be sensible; but transferring it with the incentive being paid into the new pension 
made the critical yield more achievable. The advisor again said the main benefit of 
transferring was to negate Mr Hs insecurity over the DB pension and to take the incentive 
being offered.
Mr H followed the advice and he transferred the DB pension in August. The incentive was 
paid into the new pension.
In 2022 Mr H complained to Frank Corrigan about the suitability of the transfer advice hed 
received. In summary, he felt the advice was negligent and that he would have been better 
off in retirement if hed remained in the DB pension. Frank Corrigan didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably. It said that prior to contacting it Mr H had already decided to transfer the DB 
pension with the enhancement to a new pension and he was simply looking for a better deal 
than that offered by the financial advisor appointed by his ex-employer. It also said it told 
Mr H about the risks in transferring.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service on 16 June 2022. Frank Corrigan didnt consent to 
us investigating the complaint as it felt Mr H referred it to us too late.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provision decision which explained why I felt Mr Hs complaint fell within our 
jurisdiction and why I felt it should be upheld. Ive repeated the relevant parts from my 
provisional decision below, and they form part of my final decision.
Our jurisdiction
If a financial business doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint if the complainant 
refers it to us:
omore than six years after the event being complained about happened
oor, if that six year period has passed, more than three years from the date on 
which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become 
aware) that they had cause for complaint.
For the six year time limit, as the event Mr H complained about was the advice in 2007 
he needed to have referred a complaint to us by 2013. As we didnt receive the 
complaint until 2022, Mr H referred the matter to us too late in respect of this time limit.
For the three year time limit, Mr Hs complaint would have been referred to us too late if 
he knew or should reasonably have known before June 2019 that he had cause for 
complaint.
Frank Corrigan felt the annual pension statements from 2012 showed that despite the 
value of Mr Hs fund increasing each year his projected pension in retirement was less 
than what hed given up (and in some years was less than the year before). It felt this 
made Mr H aware, or ought to have made him aware, that he had a cause for complaint 
by July 2015, which in turn meant that the three year time limit for him to complain 
expired in 2018. Mr H on the other hand said he didnt realise he might have been better 
off financially if hed kept the DB pension until 2022 when his representative explained it 
to him.
The annual pension statements the pension provider sent Mr H over the years contained 
the following information which I thought was relevant:
Year Value of pension fund 
(rounded to nearest Estimated value of 
pension fund at Projected annual 
pension at retirement £1,000) retirement (round to 
nearest £1,000)(without taking tax-
free cash)
2011 £127,000 - -
2012 £124,000 - £6,820
2013 £141,000 - £7,010
2014 £159,000 £223,000 £6,680
2015 £168,000 £247,000 £6,670
2016 £177,000 - -
2017 £202,000 £289,000 £6,670
2018 £217,000 £291,000 £7,220
2019 £204,000 £264,000 £6,570
The information showed that from 2012 to 2019 Mr Hs projected annual pension at 65 
fluctuated between £6,570 and £7,220. These figures compared to the DB pension of 
£8,748. So Frank Corrigan was correct in its argument that the statements consistently 
showed that Mr Hs projected pension in retirement was less than what he would have 
received from the DB pension.
But, the issue for me to decide was whether that made, or ought to have made, Mr H 
aware that he had a cause for complaint about the advice hed received in 2007. I didnt 
think it did because:
othe disparity between the DB pension and the projected pension wasnt 
particularly large
othe period in question was one where investment growth was generally low  
meaning that Mr H wouldnt have necessarily expected his investment to increase 
significantly
oeven as late as 2019 Mr H was still 11 years away from retirement  meaning 
there was still time for his pension investment to grow (particularly given his 
medium attitude to risk)
oit wasnt necessarily straightforward for a direct comparison to be made between 
the two figures as the projected annual pension was in todays prices  which 
meant it had been adjusted to take inflation into account.
Overall, I didnt think the information in the statements was enough for Mr H to think that 
something was wrong with the advice hed received and/or for him to act. I hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that Mr H was aware, or that he ought to have been aware, of a 
cause for complaint until 2022.
I concluded that Mr H referred his complaint to us within the three year time limit.
The merits of Mr Hs complaint
I took into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I considered to have been good industry 
practice at the time. This included the Principles for Business (PRIN) and Conduct of 
Business(COB) rules, including:
PRIN 2.1.1(6): A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1(9): A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice
COB 5.3.29(A): When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member 
of a defined benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should: (a) start by assuming it will not be suitable; and (b) only then consider it to 
be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time that it is in 
the customer's best interests (known as the presumption of unsuitability).
Given the presumption of unsuitability, Frank Corrigan should have only considered a 
transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that transferring was in Mr Hs best interests. I 
wasnt satisfied that it was.
Financial viability was an important consideration in me determining whether transfer 
advice was suitable. Mr H was 42 at the time of the advice and he wanted to retire at 65. 
The TVAS showed that Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by 6.7% every year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB pension if he took a full pension.
The advice was given during a period when we published 'discount rates' on our website 
for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers; but I thought they provided a useful indication of what growth would 
have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the time of the advice was 6.6%.
I took this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
medium attitude to risk and the term to retirement. The difference between the critical 
yield and the discount rate was only 0.1%. However, the critical yield was the growth 
needed just to match the DB pension and I thought that was important because there 
was little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through the DB pension 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. As the critical 
yield here was 6.7% and the discount rate was 6.6%, I thought Mr H was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB pension at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
For this reason alone, I thought a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best 
interests.
Mr H had concerns over the funding of the DB pension and there were various articles in 
the press at the time. But I didnt think the DB pension was in a position such that Mr H 
should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. This was 
because the ex-employer had said scheme members had no cause to worry about future 
payments, their pension was secure and the company was honouring all the benefits. 
Furthermore, if the pension did end up moving to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), I 
thought Frank Corrigan should have explained to Mr H that this wasnt as concerning as 
he thought. Mr H was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed, the benefits available to 
him through the DB pension. So it was possible the benefit provided by the PPF would 
be similar to the pension provided by the personal pension.
I could understand how the enhanced payment into his pension might have seemed 
attractive to Mr H. However, even with the enhanced payment it was unlikely that Mr H 
would match or exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him through his DB pension 
if he transferred it to a personal pension.
Prior to contacting Frank Corrigan Mr H might have had the idea of transferring his DB 
pension given his concern and the enhancement being offered. But Frank Corrigan 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted  the advisors role 
was to understand what Mr H needed and to recommend what was in his best interests.Similarly, although Frank Corrigan pointed out the potential risks of transferring the 
pension its responsibility went further than this. It had to recommend what was in Mr Hs 
best interests and show that despite the risks transferring the pension was in Mr Hs best 
interests.
Ultimately, I didnt think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing pension income and by transferring he was likely to 
receive lower retirement benefits. In my view, there were no particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh the lower pension. Mr H shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out of the DB pension just because of the enhanced payment being 
offered and his fears. I wasnt persuaded it was worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with the DB pension. And I wasnt persuaded that Frank Corrigan had shown 
that the transfer was in Mr H's best interests  as per the presumption of unsuitability.
I thought Frank Corrigan should have advised Mr H to remain in the DB pension. I 
considered whether Mr H would have gone ahead anyway but I wasnt persuaded that 
he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB pension, against the advice. I said 
that because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and his DB pension accounted for the 
majority of his retirement provision. And I wasnt persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about 
the DB pension were so great that he would have insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional advisor, whose expertise hed sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests.
If Frank Corrigan had provided Mr H with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
pension, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I thought it was most likely that 
Mr H would have followed that advice. So, I didnt think Mr H would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I thought Frank Corrigan should compensate Mr H for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H confirmed that he had nothing further to add. Frank Corrigan made various comments 
in respect of our jurisdiction. In respect of the merits of the complaint and the proposed 
redress it argued that Mr H didnt take steps to mitigate his loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction
In my view, Frank Corrigans response to my provisional decision centred on two main 
strands  the information Mr H received from the annual pension statements; and my 
comment about not seeing anything to suggest that Mr H was aware, or ought to have been 
aware, of a cause for complaint until 2022. It made various points, including:
reference to a decision another ombudsman made in 2014 which said that the projected 
pension benefits shown in the pension statements should have made the consumer in 
that case aware of a cause for complaintMr H had the mental ability to understand mathematics and complex topics, and his 
qualifications and daily work meant he was able to consider the implications of the 
information contained in the pension statements
Mr Hs decision to not retain its services for ongoing advice implied that he was confident 
in his ability to monitor his investments and make investment decisions
Mr H was warned in 2007 that transferring meant hed lose the guaranteed income 
provided by the DB pension and that the pension income hed receive would instead be 
dependent on other factors eg growth
Mr H appointed another financial advisor, which led to a further transfer of his pension in 
May 2019.
I dont think what the ombudsman said in the previous case adds any value to Frank 
Corrigans argument. Like my colleague, in deciding when Mr H ought to have realised there 
was a cause for complaint I looked at the annual pension statements. But there are various 
factors that need consideration  including:
what information is contained in the statements and how clear it is
how easy it was for the consumer to compare the information to their DB pension and/or 
to previous years
whether the figures were increasing or decreasing and by how much
how far away the consumer was from retirement.
As each case is assessed on its own merits, different conclusions might be reached on two 
seemingly similar complaints. If the circumstances in this case were different  eg if Mr H 
was much closer to retirement  I might have reached a different conclusion.
In deciding this complaint Im required to consider what a reasonable person of Mr Hs 
background and experience would have concluded from the information available to him. 
Mr H may well have a degree of intelligence and mathematical ability. However, I dont think 
that automatically means he had experience in making financial investments or in 
understanding pensions. I note that the Fact Find recorded that apart from his DB pension 
Mr H didnt have any investments other than savings. So, despite what Frank Corrigan 
argues, I dont think its fair to assume that Mr H was an experienced investor or had a 
significantly higher level of knowledge on these matters than an average consumer.
I dont think Frank Corrigan telling Mr H about the potential risks of transferring the DB 
pension is sufficient to say that he ought to have known that he had a cause for complaint 
about the advice. Thats because if hed known or suspected that the advice was unsuitable I 
think its very unlikely that he would have followed it. And knowing that the pension income is 
no longer guaranteed isnt the same as knowing or suspecting that the advice to transfer 
was unsuitable and is actually going to cause a financial loss.
Frank Corrigan has raised the fact that Mr H might have received further advice in/around 
2019. In order to establish precisely when he was told that he might have grounds to make a 
complaint, it said its trying to get information from the new pension provider. It also 
suggested that I get Mr H to provide copies of correspondence between him and the new 
financial advisor.
This complaint has been with us for around 12 months so I think Frank Corrigan has had 
enough time to get any information from other parties to support its case. Im therefore going 
to decide the complaint based on whats currently available. Im not going to get copies of 
any correspondence between Mr H and his new advisor. Thats because, in my experience, 
where a consumer receives further advice in respect of a later pension transfer the advice 
concentrates on the later transfer. Ive never seen a case where the new advisor has commented on the suitability of a previous transfer from a DB pension. So I think its unlikely 
Mr Hs new advisor would have done so in 2019.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think the information in the statements was 
enough to put Mr H on notice that he had a cause for complaint about the advice hed 
received. I also said I hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mr H was aware, or ought to have 
been aware, of a cause for complaint until 2022. The comments Frank Corrigan has made in 
response dont persuade me to change my conclusion.
I therefore conclude that Mr H referred his complaint to us within the three year time limit.
The merits of Mr Hs complaint
The only argument Frank Corrigan made in response to my provisional decision in this 
respect concerns Mr H not mitigating his loss. It said Mr H didnt retain its services as his 
financial advisor and had he done so it would have drawn his attention to the shortfall every 
year. It feels that Mr Hs actions mean his losses are greater now than they would have been 
if theyd been addressed 15 years ago so its inequitable for it to be held liable for all the 
financial losses.
I dont think its possible for someone to mitigate a loss they didnt know they were suffering 
or would suffer. I make that point as Ive concluded above that it wasnt until 2022 that Mr H 
was aware of, or ought to have been aware of, a problem/cause for complaint in respect of 
the advice he received. So I think its difficult to conclude that he should/could have taken 
any mitigating action before 2022.
In any event, Mr Hs decision to not retain Frank Corrigan for ongoing advice wasnt unusual 
or unreasonable. Many consumers only seek advice for the initial pension transfer and many 
wont seek further advice until they want to transfer the pension again or take their pension 
benefits. Im not therefore persuaded that Mr H failed to take reasonable action to mitigate 
any loss, or that he took any unreasonable action which increased the loss.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that:
Mr Hs complaint falls within our jurisdiction, and
Frank Corrigans advice to transfer the pension was unsuitable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Frank Corrigan to put Mr H, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
have most likely remained in the DB pension if suitable advice had been given.
Frank Corrigan must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of this decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Frank Corrigan should:
always calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
oredress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr H accepts Frank Corrigans offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the calculation, 
even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Frank Corrigan may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Frank Corrigan & 
Co. Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Frank Corrigan & Co. Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Frank Corrigan & 
Co. Limited. My recommendation wont be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H could 
accept my final decision and then go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Paul DanielOmbudsman