DRN-4034427
The complaint
Ms T complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc irresponsibly allowed her to take out a loan which 
was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms T says she took out the loan in 2017 but at the time was in financial difficulties. She says 
her bank account was overdrawn and her monthly income was under a £1,000 a month. Ms 
T says she later took out other loans to help her repay the Sainsburys loan. She says she 
shouldnt have been lent to and the loan was unaffordable. Ms T would like interest and 
charges refunded as well as interest added to that refund.
Sainsburys says it carried out appropriate checks on the application. It says Ms T was in 
employment with limited outgoings and had no adverse information on her credit file. 
Sainsburys says Ms T told it she wanted the loan to consolidate her existing loan and 
overdraft. It says Ms T made required payments until the loan was repaid early and that she 
didnt tell it about any financial difficulties at the time. It also says, having looked at Ms Ts 
bank statements, that it overestimated her outgoings in its calculations and that her income 
was slightly higher than declared.
Ms T brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Sainsburys carried out appropriate checks on the loan application for 
just over £8,000 and that it wouldnt have seen any information that ought to have led to 
further checks. The investigator thought it likely the loan interest rate would have been lower 
than an overdraft rate.
Ms T doesnt accept that view and says this was a very large loan with a high interest rate of 
14%. She maintains Sainsburys should have looked at the application in more detail.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms T will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any lending application. 
Those checks will of course vary from lender to lender and vary due to the type or amount of 
any lending. Such checks must consider affordability and an ability to repay the borrowing. 
I can see that Ms T applied for the loan in 2017 and that at the time she was in employment. 
I can also see that Sainsburys checked Ms Ts income and carried out checks on her 
existing debt as well as her expenditure. Those checks didnt raise any concerns and there 
were also checks made of Ms Ts credit file which didnt show any adverse information such 
as defaults or poor account management of other accounts. So, Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms Ts loan application 
and there doesnt appear to be any information it ought to have considered that would have 
led it to conclude the lending was unaffordable. I cant see any evidence that Ms T had 
adverse information on her credit file for example.
I can see that Ms T made all required payments to Sainsburys and repaid the loan early. I 
can also see from Sainsburys records that Ms T didnt speak to it about any repayment 
problems other than a change in circumstances. So, I think that provides additional evidence 
that the loan was affordable.
I appreciate Ms T says Sainsburys ought to have carried out further checks on her 
application. But I cant see why it ought to have done so or what any further checks would 
have shown. There is no issue that Ms Ts bank account was overdrawn as she told 
Sainsburys she wished to use the loan in part to consolidate debt. And I have made clear 
that Sainsburys did check Ms Ts credit file and carry out affordability calculations which 
made higher assumptions about Ms Ts outgoings that she actually had.
Overall, Im satisfied Sainsburys did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms 
Ts loan application and that any further checks wouldnt have affected that decision to lend. 
It follows that I cant fairly order Sainsburys to refund any interest and make clear its not our 
role to comment on the interest rate itself.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman