DRN-3425699
The complaint
Ms S complains that she was unfairly denied service by National Westminster Bank Plc and 
that branch staff were rude. 
What happened
Last year, Ms S visited her local NatWest branch. Ms S has told us she wanted to withdraw 
a substantial sum of cash and deposit a cheque. Whilst waiting to see counter staff, Ms S 
has told us she spoke with another customer who appeared to have been having difficulties 
while being served. 
Ms S explains that the first member of staff she spoke with refused to serve her. And they 
told the other counter staff not to serve Ms S as well. Ms S says the members of staff were 
rude, aggressive and bullying. The branch staff say it was Ms S behaviour that was rude 
and aggressive and that she used insulting language which is why she was denied service. 
Ultimately, Ms S left the branch without being able to complete her banking for the day. 
Ms S complained and NatWest initially offered her £50 plus a gift when discussing her case 
over the phone. But Santander later sent a final response to Ms S and offered her £100. 
Santander said it had given feedback to both members of staff and apologised for the 
service provided. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms S complaint. They thought NatWests offer to 
settle Ms S complaint was fair. Ms S asked to appeal and said the branch staffs comments 
were requested late and are inaccurate. Ms S has explained she feels uncomfortable visiting 
her local branch. As Ms S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. An approach our rules 
allow me to take. Id like to ensure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by this 
approach. 
I can see how strongly Ms S feels in this matter and that she remains upset and frustrated 
with the way her branch visit was handled by NatWest. Its clear something unusual went 
wrong and I understand Ms S was denied service by branch staff. Ms S says it was branch 
staff who were rude and aggressive. But the members of staff involved say it was Ms S that 
caused the difficulties. 
Were an impartial service. That means we dont act for either side when looking at a 
complaint. We give equal weight to the comments of each party to a case and make 
decisions based on the available evidence. I understand Ms S has a clear recollection of 
what happened and quickly went on to raise a complaint. But NatWest also contacted the 
staff involved. They recalled the incident in question. Both parties give very different versions 
of what happened and the comments made. I have to take what both Ms S and NatWest 
have told us when deciding the outcome of this case.
Where information or events are disputed by the parties involved in a complaint, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred 
based on all the available information and evidence. 
Ms S and the branch staff agree about some points. Both parties say Ms S spoke with 
another customer after theyd been at the counter. Ms S says the counter staff were 
unnecessarily rude and refused service when she approached. The counter staff say Ms S 
made insulting comments and was aggressive. As a result, they denied Ms S service. Its 
clear there was an altercation during Ms S visit and I accept that branch staff couldve 
handled the situation better. But, on balance, Im not persuaded the branch staff were 
intentionally rude or unprofessional. I think its more likely than not that there was a genuine 
misunderstanding during Ms S visit that led the situation to unfold and get out of hand.
I agree that Ms S should expect NatWests branch staff to act professionally. But its clear 
tempers were such that it wasnt practical to continue with Ms S visit. NatWest has 
confirmed its since passed feedback to the staff involved and apologised to Ms S for the 
service provided. 
I know my decision is likely to disappoint Ms S as I can see how strongly she feels in this 
matter. But Im satisfied NatWests apology and offer of £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is a fair and reasonable way to resolve her complaint. As Im satisfied 
NatWest dealt with Ms S complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms S complaint because National Westminster Bank Plc 
has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman