DRN-2431322
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy ICICI Bank UK Plc gave him the wrong information about the balance hed 
receive for his HiSave Fixed Rate Account (HRFA) when he closed the account.
 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr P invested £100,000 in a three-year HRFA with ICICI, at an interest rate of 
2.37%. with any interest paid to him on a monthly basis into another account.
In October 2020 Mr P said he contacted ICICI to enquire about the surrender of his account 
as he needed the money to purchase a property. Mr P said he was told he would incur a 
reduction in his balance of around £200. And on this basis Mr P said he agreed to the early 
closure of his account. But Mr P said when he received the balance owed to him the amount 
had been reduced by around £2,000 not the £200 he was expecting. He complained to 
ICICI.
ICICI apologised for the incorrect information given to Mr P. But said the amount they repaid 
on the surrender of his account was correct. They offered to pay Mr P £50 trouble and upset 
in recognition of their error.
Mr P wasnt happy with their response. He said if hed known by surrendering the account 
his balance would reduce by the amount it had, he wouldnt have taken the decision to close 
the account. And that this had caused not only financial loss but stress and inconvenience. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mr P had been paid the correct amount on surrendering his 
account. And as he was taking this action to finance a property purchase, she was of the 
opinion Mr P would have still surrendered the account if hed been given the right 
information. But she said the offer made by ICICI didnt fully reflect the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr P, and asked ICICI to pay an additional £100.
Mr P didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In May 2019, Mr P invested £100,000 into a fixed-rate account. When opening such an 
account the expectation is that it will be maintained for the full term of the account, in this 
case three years. But in October 2020 Mr P looked to close the account before the end of its 
term. 
I can understand Mr Ps frustration as he was told the financial impact on early closure would 
be around £200. But when his closure balance was paid it was £97,878.49, over £2000 less 
than he was expecting. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for an HRFA. They say an account cant be closed 
unless there are specific circumstances. The terms and conditions list the instances where 
this would happen. But also say that the account could be closed in exceptional 
circumstances. And examples of these are given, the purchase of a property is not one of 
the examples. But ICICI did accept the reasons Mr P gave them for needing to close his 
account early.
 
The terms and conditions say:
The premature closure interest rate will be the Bank of England Base Rate as applicable 
while your HiSAVE Fixed Rate Account was open.
At the time Mr P closed his account this was 0.75%. This means that as Mr P wanted to 
close his account early, the money he deposited wouldnt accrue the 2.37% interest but 
would revert to the BoEs base rate of 0.75% for the period the account was open.
Mr P in opening his account had agreed for any interest (product rate 2.37%) to have been 
paid to him on a monthly basis. ICICI has provided the calculations for how they determined 
Mr Ps closure balance. They said during the period from 30th May 2019 to 30th September 
2020, Mr P was paid £3,129.70 at the contracted interest rate of 2.37% that applied to this 
product.
ICICI said they adjusted the amount of interest that had already been paid to Mr P at the 
product rate (2.37%) to the BoE rate of 0.75% due to early closure of the amount.  As Mr P  
had already been paid a higher amount than the BoE interest would have accrued his 
closure balance was adjusted to reflect this.
I know Mr P was told that his balance would only be affected by a much smaller amount than 
it was, but I cant ask ICICI to put right something that is wrong. By doing so Mr P would 
financial benefit from the error. In putting things right Id look to put Mr P in the situation he 
would have been in if hed been given the right information. And ICICI has calculated Mr Ps 
closure balance on this basis. So, Im satisfied Mr P received the correct amount on the 
surrender of his account. 
Mr P has said he wouldnt have closed the account if he had been given the right 
information. But I agree with our investigator, Mr P wanted to surrender the account and use 
the funds towards the purchase of a property. And I think his intentions would have been 
unchanged as Mr Ps reasons for closing were seen to show that there were exceptional 
circumstances. But ICICI in giving Mr P the belief he would receive more than he should 
have has caused Mr P trouble and upset. ICICI offered £50. I think the additional £100 is 
more reflective of the impact this incorrect information had on Mr P.
  My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and I ask ICICI Bank UK Plc to pay Mr P an additional £100 
for trouble and upset  In total £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman