DRN-3604181
The complaint
Mr G and Ms T complain about Wakams handling of a claim they made under their buildings 
insurance policy.  
What happened
In February 2022, Mr G made a claim to Wakam, saying his home had suffered storm 
damage. Mr G says the policy was cancelled by Wakam. Wakam said Mr G and Miss T 
hadnt declared that a County Court Judgement (CCJ) had been recorded against Miss T. 
Wakam considered Mr G and Ms T had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented their 
position and voided the policy. voided the policy in March. 
Mr G complained about Wakams decision. He said Ms T was unaware of the CCJ. They 
were concerned that their house remained damaged. 
Wakam responded to their complaint and said it was satisfied the questions it asked were 
clear. As Ms T was covered by the policy, she was named as a policyholder and therefore 
the CCJ should have been disclosed. Had this been disclosed, Wakam says it wouldnt have 
offered cover to Mr G and Ms T. 
Mr G and Ms T remained unhappy and referred their complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt think Wakam had acted unfairly. As Mr G 
and Ms T didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Wakam thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application that it was true none of the policyholders had been served with any 
County Court Judgements.  
Ive looked at the questions asked as part of the application process. Wakam says under the 
section A final few questions a warning was given which said These questions are very 
important and if answered incorrectly could invalidate your cover. The applicant then 
needed to answer true or false to the following question:
No Bankruptcy or CCJs
Nobody that will be insured on the policy has ever been declared bankrupt, served 
with any County Court Judgements (CCJs), Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVAs 
or arrangements with creditors.
The application went on say:
Special Circumstances
None of the policyholders listed above have been declared bankrupt, served with any 
County Court Judgements (CCJs),
Mr T answered this is true to the above statement. Mr G was listed as the main policy 
holder, with cover extending to Ms T. Wakams position is that in listing Ms T as someone to 
be covered by the policy, Mr G has essentially made her a policyholder in her own right. So, 
on the basis Mr G answered this is true to the above statement, Wakam considers Mr G 
misrepresented the position of a policyholder who was an insured person under the policy. 
Im satisfied the first question made it clear that Mr G was required to answer true or false 
accurately in response to the statement nobody insured on the policy has ever been 
served with any County Court Judgements (CCJs). Im also satisfied the statement and 
question were both clear in setting out that a CCJ served on anyone insured by the policy 
needed to be declared.
The CCJ recorded against Ms T wasnt declared by Mr G. And Mr G answered this question 
by stating none of the policy holders had a CCJ recorded against them, but this isnt the 
case. 
Mr Gs initial complaint to this service was to say Ms T wasnt aware of the CCJ against her. 
But I havent seen any evidence to support this. Mr G also argued the requirement to set this 
out wasnt declared anywhere in his policy documents. But thats not the case, I can see the 
above declaration is set out in the policy documents as above. 
Having considered the information provided, Im satisfied Mr G didnt take reasonable care 
when answering the statement about whether any policyholders had been served with a 
CCJ. And the answer to the statement made a difference as to whether or not Wakam would 
provide cover for the property. 
Wakam has provided evidence to this service to show if had it been aware of the CCJ, it 
wouldnt have offered cover to Mr G. It follows, Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one.
Wakam said Mr Gs misrepresentation was deliberate because the policy terms set out a 
clear requirement for policyholders to provide complete and accurate information. It also 
said, in its view, the statement was clear and unambiguous. For these reasons, it considers 
Mr Gs answer to be either a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
On balance, I agree with Wakams view Mr Gs misrepresentation was reckless. Im satisfied 
for the reasons Ive set out above that Ms T was considered to be a policyholder. 
Additionally, Ive not been provided with any evidence to show Ms T wasnt aware of the 
CCJ as Mr G initially said. I think this would have been something straightforward to provide 
in support of their complaint and could have been evidenced by providing letters to the court or person or business who applied for the CCJ. Id expect this to be provided as part of their 
submissions to either Wakam or this service. I havent seen any evidence to support this. 
As Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the 
actions General Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA. Wakam voided the policy 
and retained the premiums. As Im satisfied this was a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation that was also a qualifying one (in that it made a difference whether or not 
Wakam would have offered cover) Wakam was entitled to void the policy and retain the 
premiums. Its said that it retained the premiums Mr G had paid to cover the administrative 
costs incurred as a result of setting up the policy and beginning to investigate the claim 
before it became aware of the misrepresentation. Under CIDRA, an insurer is entitled to 
retain the premiums if there has been a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
While I understand my decision wont be the one Mr G is hoping for, for the reasons Ive set 
out, Im satisfied Wakam has acted fairly in the circumstances. Im not going to require it to 
reinstate the policy or consider Mr Gs claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman