DRN-3489939
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc didnt give him clear information when he applied for 
additional mortgage borrowing. He incurred costs of £450, which hed like Santander to 
refund. 
What happened
Mr P spoke to Santander in May 2021. He wanted to take out additional borrowing to repay 
his help to buy loan. Santander said Mr P could borrow up to 85% of the value of the 
property. This was on the basis the help to buy loan was fully repaid and he passed 
affordability checks. Mr P told Santander he thought the property was worth about £170,000 
and hed need about £29,000 to repay the help to buy loan. 
Santander told Mr P hed need consent from the help to buy administrator and a redemption 
statement for the help to buy loan before it could start his application for additional 
borrowing. A valuation of the property was needed to calculate the cost of repaying the help 
to buy loan. 
Mr P paid the fees for a valuation of the property and for the administrator of the help to buy 
loan to issue a redemption statement.
Mr Ps property was valued at just under £150,000, and Mr P needed to borrow £30,000 to 
repay the help to buy loan. Mr P didnt meet Santanders affordability checks for that amount 
of additional borrowing. This meant Mr P wasnt in a position to repay the help to buy loan in 
full. 
Santander said it would only lend up to 75% of the property value while the help to buy loan 
was outstanding. This meant Mr P could only take out further borrowing of about £5,000. He 
didnt go ahead.  
Mr P said if Santander had told him at the outset that it could apply a maximum loan to value 
(LTV) of 75% he wouldnt have incurred the costs of the valuation and redemption 
statement.
Our investigator said Santander had been clear about what it needed before it could 
progress the application and assess how much additional borrowing it could offer Mr P. 
Mr P didnt agree, saying Santander should have warned him that the maximum LTV could 
reduce. He said Santander should have provided full information before insisting he incurred 
the costs of getting the redemption statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr P wasnt able to repay his help to buy loan. This must have been 
disappointing, and I can understand that he feels the costs involved in looking into this were 
wasted. I dont think though that Santander was unfair in how it dealt with Mr P. 
Unfortunately, Mr P didnt meet affordability checks to borrow the amount needed to repay 
the help to buy loan. Santander didnt know this in May 2021, before it carried out an 
affordability assessment. It told Mr P in May 2021 (before he paid for the valuation) there 
was a risk that the additional borrowing he wanted wouldnt be affordable. I dont think 
Santander misled him about this.
Santander will only lend up to 75% of the propertys value when there is a help to buy loan 
outstanding. Thats understandable, as theres another loan secured on the property. And 
Santander is entitled to make commercial decisions about its lending policy.
Mr Ps property was valued at less than hed expected, at just under £150,000. The lower 
property value and maximum LTV meant he could only borrow an additional £5,000. I dont 
think Santander could have known that this would be the outcome when it spoke to Mr P in 
May 2021.
If Mr P had asked about taking out borrowing to repay part of the help to buy loan, Id expect 
Santander to give him correct information about the basis on which it would offer this, 
including the maximum LTV. But this wasnt part of the discussion Mr P had with Santander 
in May 2021. 
Having listened to the call recording, I dont think its fair to say that Santander insisted Mr P 
get a redemption statement for the help to buy loan. Mr P contacted Santander about the 
possibility of taking out additional borrowing to repay the help to buy loan. Santander simply 
set out the steps hed need to take to apply for this. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to compensate Mr P 
for the costs of the valuation or redemption statement.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman