DRN-1951749
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) continued to take direct 
debits from her account after a finance agreement she had with them had been terminated. 
Mrs F has been represented in this complaint by Mr F but for ease I will refer to Mrs F 
throughout.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
There is no dispute that Santander made a mistake here. They failed to unwind the finance 
agreement when they had been told to do so in November 2018 when Mrs F didnt take 
receipt of the car the agreement was going to finance.
It must have been distressing for Mrs F to have discovered the funds were still being taken 
from her account. Its clear the agreement wasnt removed from Mrs Fs credit file until 
October 2019. Mrs F has explained that this has had an impact on her health and has been 
very distressing for her.
Whilst Santander failed to terminate the agreement its clear they did act quickly when they 
discovered their mistake. They refunded the money that had been taken in error and they 
offered a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ive considered whether the redress provided by Santander was sufficient, but I think they 
need to do a little more.
  
Putting things right
Mrs F has been deprived of the money she paid towards the agreement and in those 
circumstances it is fair for Santander to pay her some interest on the refund of that money. 
In line with our usual approach they should add 8%.
Whilst the overpayment would have distressing for Mrs F it would only have been distressing 
when she became aware it was being taken from her account in error. Santanders quick 
response to remedy the situation somewhat lessened the impact. But Mrs Fs credit file had 
still been affected and, overall, I would agree with the investigator that £175 isnt enough and 
Santander should increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
confirm in writing to Mrs F that the agreement has been terminated and removed 
from her credit file;
pay 8% simple interest per year on the refund of the monies they collected 
(£1,483.28) from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs F £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman