DRN-4339492
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled the transfer of title when she 
changed a joint mortgage into her sole name. 
What happened
Mrs T held a joint mortgage with her now ex-husband. Mrs T and her husband at the time 
separated around 2005 and divorced. As a result of court action, Mrs Ts ex-husband was 
required to take his name off the joint mortgage and property title deeds. 
In February 2009, Mrs T applied to HSBC to change the mortgage into her sole name, which 
was granted and completed in late 2009. 
Mrs T says she became aware in 2013, when she tried to move house, that her ex-husband 
was still on the title deeds. 
In 2016, Mrs T complained to HSBC. HSBC says it shouldve queried with Mrs Ts solicitors 
in 2009 why the mortgage was in Mrs Ts sole name, but the title was in joint names. It said it 
had made a mistake and because of this, it offered to pay any solicitors fees involved in 
removing Mrs Ts ex-husband from the title deeds. And it paid Mrs T £200 compensation. 
Mrs T was unable to trace her ex-husband at this time, and HSBC wasnt willing to pay to 
have him traced as Mrs T had requested. Mrs T rented out the property soon after this. 
Mrs T raised a new complaint in 2022 regarding the same matter. She said it had been 
difficult to pursue this in 2016 due to the trauma associated with her divorce, caused by her 
ex-husband and her relationship with him. HSBC responded to this complaint maintaining it 
would cover any legal costs when amending the title deeds and offered a further £750 
compensation.
Mrs T didnt accept this and referred the complaint to us. She said shes lost out by not being 
able to sell the property or change the mortgage interest rate because shes renting it out. 
She says shes incurred additional costs due to having to rent out the property and maintain 
it. And the property has fallen in value.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary, that the 
role of transferring the ownership of the property fell to Mrs Ts solicitors, not HSBC. She 
thought HSBCs offer was fair and didnt recommend it take any further action. 
Mrs T didnt accept this and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. So, its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator. And for the same reasons.
First, I want to reassure Mrs T that Ive read everything shes sent us, and thought about 
each point shes made. I may not respond to, or address, each and every point. Thats not 
because I havent thought about it. It simply reflects the informal nature of this service. And I 
hope Mrs T realises I mean no disrespect by this. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of this complaint  the failure to remove Mrs Ts ex-husband from the title deeds 
and the impact this has had. 
Theres no doubt that Mrs T has been through a very tough time over the years. And Im very 
sorry to hear about all that shes been through. But I need to consider whether HSBC has 
made a mistake and, if so, whether that has contributed to Mrs Ts financial loss, or the 
distress and upset shes suffered.
HSBC says that it shouldve noticed that the new mortgage Mrs T took in 2009 was in sole 
names, whilst the property was still in joint names. At this point, it couldve taken action to 
inform Mrs T and her solicitors to make the amendments to the title deeds as required. But it 
didnt. I accept that HSBC possibly missed a chance to make Mrs T aware of this mistake 
here. But I dont think it was HSBC who had made the mistake.
HSBCs role in this situation was to provide a new mortgage in Mrs Ts sole name. Which it 
did. It was for the solicitors who wouldve been carrying out the conveyancing, to transfer the 
property title into Mrs Ts sole name. And the solicitors were acting on behalf of Mrs T. As 
Ive said, HSBC possibly couldve noticed this error, but the error was made by the solicitors. 
I dont think HSBC was responsible for ensuring the solicitors carried out all of the work they 
were supposed to. Because of this, the impact of this error is not, in my mind, the fault of 
HSBC.
It's clear that this has been going on for some time. And it has been made much worse for 
Mrs T by the relationship she has with her ex-husband. But again, I cant say that it was 
HSBCs error that led to this chain of events. The key mistake here for me was in 2009 when 
Mrs Ts solicitors failed to amend the title deeds into her sole name. And all events since 
stem from that. I cant hold HSBC responsible for this mistake.
I know Mrs T will be very disappointed by the outcome of this complaint. And its clear she 
feels very strongly about this matter. But, I think HSBCs offer to pay for the legal fees to 
transfer the title into her sole name, plus a further £750 compensation is fair. And Im not 
going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and leave it to Mrs T to decide whether to accept 
HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman