DRN-3518401
The complaint
Mr R, through his professional representative, complains about the advice he received to 
transfer his defined benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He 
says he was advised to transfer by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA)  the respondent 
business in this complaint  and another financial business (which Ill call Firm R). Mr R 
says the advice was unsuitable.
What happened
Mr R approached SKA for advice because he had concerns about the status and stability of 
his DB scheme and was worried it could end up transferring to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF).
SKA completed a fact find in May 2017, recording Mr Rs circumstances as well as an 
assessment of his attitude to risk. As SKA didnt have the requisite permissions from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on transferring Mr Rs DB scheme benefits it 
referred the matter to Firm R, so that it could provide advice. This included sharing the 
information recorded as part of the fact find.
Firm R sent Mr R letters confirming it would be providing advice, which he signed confirming 
he agreed to. It also wrote to the trustees of the DB scheme confirming it was responsible for 
the advice given to Mr R in respect of transferring. 
Firm R recommended that Mr R transfer his pension benefits from his DB scheme to a new 
personal pension and sent Mr R a suitability report confirming its advice. I understand the 
transfer went ahead in line with this advice.
Mr R was referred back to SKA for ongoing advice and servicing of his newly arranged 
pension, which was still continuing at the point a complaint was raised.
In 2021 Mr R complained to both SKA and Firm R about the advice hed received. SKA said 
it hadnt provided Mr R with advice as it didnt have the required permissions to do so and 
had had referred him to Firm R. 
Mr Rs representative asked our service to consider both of Mr Rs complaints. Firm R is no 
longer authorised by the FCA and was declared in default  so unable to meet its liabilities 
 by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 2021. So, Mr Rs complaint 
about Firm R has been referred to the FSCS.
In respect of the complaint about SKA in summary the representative said the advice to 
transfer was clearly unsuitable. They said Mr R had no direct contact with Firm R and they 
felt SKA had clearly provided advice as part of a joint venture between it and Firm R, so they 
felt it was reasonable that SKA be held responsible for the advice. The representative 
referenced legal cases and decisions made by our service in other complaints that it felt 
supported this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think, based on the information 
available, that SKA advised Mr R and was satisfied that Firm R had provided advice. He also 
questioned, because SKA was not permitted to provide transfer advice, whether our service 
had jurisdiction to consider a complaint about this. 
Mr Rs representative asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. As a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed arguments and a significant amount of documentation to 
consider. And Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence 
provided. If I dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or that either party have 
said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is 
because my decision will address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr Rs representatives have made reference to the wider relationship between Firm R and 
SKA as well as legal cases and previous decisions by our service in support of its argument. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider and have regard for the relevant law, 
regulation, and best industry practice. But the decision I come to on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, may be different to what a court would 
decide. And, in deciding this complaint, Im only considering the individual facts and merits 
relating to Mr Rs dealings with SKA. I wont be considering SKAs alleged acts or omissions 
in other cases where it introduced individuals to Firm R. And I wont be considering the acts 
or omissions of Firm R in its dealing with Mr R because this complaint is about SKA. Our 
service also decides each case on its own particular facts and merits. So, while Ive taken on 
board what the representatives have said about findings our service has made in other 
cases, I have reached my decision based on the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint alone - 
as the right outcome in one case may not be the right outcome in another as individual 
circumstances can vary. 
My understanding of the representatives position is that Mr R had no real contact with 
Firm R. They say SKA verbally advised him to transfer his pension, and he relied upon that 
advice. They also argue there was a joint venture between SKA and Firm R. So, they 
consider SKA should be held liable for the unsuitable advice because of this and because 
SKA didnt do as it was required to in terms of treating Mr R fairly and having regard for his 
best interests. 
Can we look at Mr Rs complaint about the actions of SKA before the transfer?
Our Investigator suggested we may not be able to look into this complaint. Although they did 
go on to make a finding on its merits. For the avoidance of doubt, Ive considered this and 
am satisfied we can consider the matter. Ill explain why.
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints is set out in the FCAs Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
rules. There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a 
complaint, ranging from whether the complainant is eligible to whether the activity 
complained about is something we can investigate.
It isnt in dispute that Mr R is a consumer as per DISP 2.7.3(1). But in order for him to be an 
eligible complainant, he must also have a complaint which arises from matters relevant to a 
specific relationship with the respondent  SKA. DISP 2.7.6 lists the relevant relationships; DISP 2.7.6(2) says that if Mr R is (or was) a potential customer of SKA, then he would meet 
that requirement. And Im satisfied Mr R was a potential customer of SKA as he approached 
it for advice and had meetings with SKA before he transferred his DB scheme benefits.
DISP 2.3.1 says we can only consider complaints relating to certain specified activities, 
including regulated activities, and ancillary activities. Ancillary activity is defined in the FCA 
Handbook as:
An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is:
a) carried on in connection with a regulated activity; or
b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated activity.
In relation to ancillary activities, the Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows that the
ancillary link may exist both forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on ancillary 
activities in connection with regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as well as 
regulated activities it is in the process of carrying on or has already carried on.
All parties agree that SKA carried out the initial fact-finding and attitude to risk assessment. It 
also introduced Mr R to Firm R and then provided ongoing advice and servicing in relation to 
the new pension, taken out as a result of the advice to transfer. But fact-finding is not a 
regulated activity. Introducing is also not a regulated activity where the introduction is made 
to an authorised firm with a view to advice or the exercise of discretion in relation to 
investments. However, the ongoing advice provided after the transfer was a regulated 
activity. I should though, just make it clear that I understand no fault in that ongoing advice 
and servicing is alleged nor any loss attributed to such a fault  this complaint is entirely 
about the events prior to the transfer advice and that advice itself.
So, SKA carried on a regulated activity when it started giving Mr R ongoing advice and 
servicing of his pension. And I think the fact finding and introduction it made to Firm R is 
ancillary to that ongoing advice.
The provision of ongoing advice was dependent on the advice to transfer and the transfer 
taking place. But its clear from SKAs fact-find that it discussed Mr Rs attitude to risk. And it 
said in its handover notes to Firm R that this was with a view to how funds might be invested 
if a transfer took place. So, it seems likely the parties envisaged the introduction leading to 
SKA providing ongoing advice on these benefits later. And Firm R did ultimately advise Mr R 
to transfer out of his DB scheme and servicing was then transferred to SKA. So, Im satisfied 
there is a clear connection in this case between the introduction, transfer advice, and 
ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain would therefore be ancillary to the third. 
And as a result, Im satisfied we can consider SKAs actions prior to the transfer.
Did SKA advise Mr R to transfer?
SKA has said that it did not have the required permission from the FCA to advise Mr R on 
his pension transfers. So, it referred him to Firm R. Ive seen a copy of a letter from SKA to 
Mr R asking him to confirm it had his permission to pass the details to Firm R which held the 
necessary permissions. This letter also confirmed that Firm R would be responsible for the 
advice. And Mr R signed that letter agreeing to the referral.
Firm R also wrote to Mr R saying, following an introduction from SKA, it would be 
responsible for advice, while SKA would assist with documentation. And again, Mr R signed 
a copy of this letter confirming he understood this.
Firm R provided Mr R with a suitability report. This report confirmed that Mr R had held discussions with SKA. But said that Mr R had given permission for the matter to be referred 
to Firm R as SKA didnt have the required permissions to provide advice. And it went on to 
explain why Firm R was recommending the transfer.
And Firm R also provided written confirmation to both Mr R and the trustees of the DB 
scheme that it had provided, and was responsible for, advice to transfer benefits from the DB 
scheme.
Mr Rs representatives say that, despite all of this, SKA did provide Mr R advice to transfer, 
and did so verbally. But having considered the available evidence, Im not persuaded that 
SKA advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits. 
Its clear that Mr R held discussions with SKAs adviser. SKA completed fact finds prior to 
referring Mr R to Firm R. And the referral it sent to Firm R is clear that SKA understood 
Mr Rs circumstances and motivations for thinking of transferring  in particular concerns 
about the DB scheme. I also accept that SKAs adviser did a lot of the fact-finding with Mr R 
as there were several different fact-finding documents completed. And Im satisfied, again 
based on the information shared when the referral was made, that this involved discussing 
his retirement objectives. And the discussions may even have gone as far as talking about 
advantages and disadvantages. Indeed, the suitability report from Firm R indicated it 
understood there had been some discussion about disadvantages. But that doesnt, in my 
view, demonstrate that SKA gave Mr R advice to transfer his pension.
I think SKA was probably hoping that Firm R would advise Mr R to transfer so it could 
become the ongoing adviser and receive fees for this. And its possible that Mr R believed 
SKA was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
show that SKA gave Mr R a personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my 
view, the evidence shows that Firm R advised Mr R to transfer his pensions, not SKA.
Im also conscious Mr R could not have transferred his DB scheme benefits based on his 
interactions with SKA alone. Prior to his contact with SKA, Mr R requested and received a 
transfer value quotation from the DB scheme. This explained it was a requirement that a 
member transferring take advice from an FCA registered adviser if the transfer value was 
over a certain amount. Mr Rs benefits were valued above this threshold. It also explained 
that written confirmation would be needed by the trustees that this advice had been obtained 
 which Firm R provided. SKA didnt have the necessary permission to advise on pension 
transfers. Firm R, on the other hand, did. So, Mr R couldnt have transferred his DB scheme 
benefits based on the meetings he had with SKA or any verbal advice he feels he was given 
 because he wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm R gave Mr R the advice to transfer his DB scheme benefits. 
And I dont think SKAs earlier involvement or the fact it facilitated the completion of 
documents, should automatically make SKA liable for the suitability of the advice provided by 
Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully responsible for the pension transfer advice it 
gave Mr R to transfer.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr R would have still opted to transfer his benefits if 
Firm R had advised him not to transfer. Mr Rs representative says he was persuaded to 
transfer based upon his interactions with SKA. But on balance I dont think Mr R wouldve 
gone against the advice provided by Firm R. 
From the information available to me I understand Mr R was an inexperienced investor who 
had sought financial advice. SKA made him aware it didnt have the required permissions to 
give that advice and so referred him to someone that did, Firm R. And Mr R signed several 
documents confirming he understood this. With this in mind I think, if Firm R, an appropriately qualified business whose services Mr R understood hed been referred to for 
the specific purpose of transfer advice and whose advice he was paying for, had provided 
Mr R with clear advice in writing against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for 
him, I dont think Mr R wouldve acted against that advice purely based on his earlier 
discussions with SKA.
So, I find it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately enabled Mr R to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits. And if this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm R is responsible for Mr Rs 
losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?
Mr Rs representative says a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R to facilitate Mr R 
transferring his benefits and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial loss 
Mr R has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr R to transfer his pension benefits. Although Mr Rs 
representative states that Mr R was verbally advised to transfer by SKA, Im satisfied Mr R 
transferred his benefits because Firm R advised him to do so, independently of SKAs 
involvement. So, I think Mr Rs losses flow from Firm Rs advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with SKA before that.
SKA did not treat Mr R fairly or have regard for his best interests
Mr Rs representative has suggested that SKA didnt treat Mr R fairly or act in his best 
interests. 
As I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr R 
on the transfer of his pension benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr R against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer DB scheme benefits 
away from the existing scheme. As SKA didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred 
Mr R to Firm R, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont 
think SKA could reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm R, 
particularly as Firm R had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. 
And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr R fairly, act in his best interests 
and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was SKAs actions that ultimately led to 
Mr Rs decision to transfer his pension benefits, without the actions of Firm R. I am also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr R unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require SKA to pay compensation to Mr R or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Ben StokerOmbudsman