DRN-3434111
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in November 2018. He paid the deposit with a 
Santander credit card, and that bank is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr L into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr L, and that fair redress would be for Santander to 
work out what the financial returns of the panels were likely to be over a reasonable period, 
which she thought was ten years from the date they were installed. This calculation was to 
be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and on a number of 
assumptions on future performance, and on the assumption that Mr L would consume 37% 
of the electricity the panels generated. Santander should then pay him the difference 
between the amount so calculated and the cost of the panels, and pay him interest on that 
sum at 8% a year. She also said that Santander should pay Mr L £100 for his trouble.
Santander didnt respond by the deadline, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
In coming to that conclusion, I have taken into account Santanders argument that if Mr L 
had taken more time to read the installers contract thoroughly, he would have seen that it 
stated that the expected benefits from the panels were actually a much lower sum than he 
says the saleswoman had told him verbally during the sales meeting. Santander submitted 
that since buying solar panels is expensive and represents a considerable investment, 
consumers should take care to read all of the paperwork before signing, or at least during 
the 14-day cooling-off period prior to installation. I do not disagree with that view, but I have 
also taken into account the legal principle that where a misrepresentee is unaware that a 
representation is false, the fact that he could have found out it was false by taking 
reasonable care is not a defence in law, and nor is it a reason to reduce his damages.1 
I accept what Mr L has told us about the meeting, and that he did not notice the page with 
the estimated benefits figures on it, and that he was misled by what the saleswoman told 
him.
Before I move on, I will also make two observations about how Santander dealt with Mr Ls 
section 75 claim. Firstly, in a phone call between Santander and Mr L the call handler 
conceded that Mr Ls account of the sales meeting and of what the saleswoman had told him 
was plausible. And secondly, the reason given for rejecting the claim was that the contract 
had said that the benefits expected from the panels were only estimates and were not 
guaranteed. But that was never the point. Mr L was not saying that the written figures were 
not accurate, he was saying that he had been told a completely different figure and the 
saleswoman had deliberately concealed the written figures from him by folding the contract 
over when she handed it to him to sign.
So I think that by rejecting Mr Ls claim for compensation under section 75, Santander didnt 
treat him fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint for Santander to put things right by calculating Mr Ls 
likely benefits from the panels over the period of ten years from the date of installation 
(15 November 2018), taking into account his most recent FIT statement (which is enclosed 
with this decision), and assuming that he has consumed and will continue to consume 37% 
of the electricity generated by the panels. Santander must then pay Mr L the difference 
between the amount so calculated and the price of the panels (£8,350), together with simple 
interest at the rate of 8% a year. Santander should share its working out with him, so that he 
knows how the calculated figure was reached.
Mr L may keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the ten year term has 
ended.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Santander that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Santander 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See Chitty on Contracts (34th edition), paragraphs 9-051 and 9-052, and the authorities cited there.