DRN-1386940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) have 
provided when dealing with their mortgage. Specifically, theyve raised concerns about the 
way Halifax have communicated  as Mr and Mrs C dont feel theyre making reasonable 
adjustments that take account of their circumstances. 
Theyve complained that Halifax wont contact them via email as theyve asked for, and 
theyre still writing directly to Mr C despite requests for this not to happen. Mr and Mrs C 
dont believe Halifax have acted in line with the Equality Act 2010, and they feel harassed. 
They also complain that the mortgage was mis-sold, and that Halifax have reduced their 
arrears without explanation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a mortgage with Halifax, the majority of which is interest-only. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs C have been unable to make the full monthly mortgage payments 
for some time, and as a result  significant arrears have built on the account. Theyve made 
several complaints to Halifax over the years about their mortgage, and they feel strongly that 
the mortgage was mis-sold to them.
Mr C has told us he is seriously disabled and suffers with mental health conditions. Mr and 
Mrs C have made repeated requests for all Halifaxs correspondence to be sent by email, as 
a reasonable adjustment under the Equality Act 2010. Halifax have assigned Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage to be case managed but explained theyre unable to send correspondence to them 
by email as its not secure. 
Halifax have sent letters to Mr and Mrs C about the arrears on their account, and the 
collections activity that theyre taking. Mr and Mrs C have asked Halifax not to send these 
letters as they think they constitute harassment. Theyve also asked for these letters not to 
be sent to Mr C specifically  as he finds them distressing. 
When Mr and Mrs C complained to Halifax in 2019, Halifax didnt uphold their complaint. 
They explained that a lot of the issues theyd raised had already been dealt with by previous 
complaints, so they wouldnt consider them again. Halifax also explained that Mr and Mrs 
Cs arrears balance had reduced following a review they completed on the account after 
guidance issued by the regulator - The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). 
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things, and 
explained that we wouldnt look at their concerns about the sale of the mortgage, as our 
service had considered that complaint already in 2014. But he investigated Mr and Mrs Cs 
other complaint points, and whilst he empathised with their situation  he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. I wrote to both parties to clarify 
which parts of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint I thought I could consider. In summary, I said I 
would consider the following complaint points.Halifax have failed to make reasonable adjustments to the way they communicate 
with Mr and Mrs C;
Halifax have failed to comply with the Equality Act 2010;
Halifax have harassed Mr and Mrs C whilst the mortgage has been in arrears;
Halifax have reduced Mr and Mrs Cs arrears balance without explanation.
 
I explained that I would only be able to consider how Halifax have done the above since 
January 2018, as previous final response letters had dealt with the same issues before then 
 and the complaints hadnt been brought to our service within the time limits. So Ill only be 
considering the way Halifax have communicated with Mr and Mrs C from January 2018 
onwards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifaxs communication with Mr and Mrs C
Ive taken into account the law, as well as regulation, guidance and good practice, to decide 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant law here is 
the Equality Act 2010, and Mr and Mrs C have specifically asked me to take into account the 
duty to make reasonable adjustments for persons with disabilities. The Act says that, in 
summary - where a provision criterion or practice puts a person with a disability at a 
substantial disadvantage in comparison with persons who are not disabled, a service 
provider must take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the disadvantage. 
The Act also says that a person with a protected characteristic  such as disability  
shouldnt be harassed. The Act defines harassment as unwanted conduct in relation to a 
protected characteristic that violates a persons dignity, or creates an intimidating, hostile, 
degrading, humiliating or offensive environment. 
There are, in law, other forms of harassment too  which dont relate specifically to the 
protected characteristics  and which, in summary, involve engaging in a course of conduct 
likely to cause alarm or distress.
Its not my role to make findings on matters of law, including whether or not Halifax is in 
breach of obligations under the Act. But as I say, this is something I take into account in 
deciding whether its acted fairly.
I also bear in mind the regulators principles for businesses, one of which says that a firm 
must ensure its communication with customers is clear, fair and not misleading.
When a borrowers circumstances make communication through normal channels difficult, 
Id expect a lender, acting fairly, to adjust how they communicate - to take account of the 
borrowers needs. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs C have asked Halifax to communicate with them only by email, but 
theyve refused to do so.
Mr and Mrs C have asked Halifax to communicate with them by email so that its easier to 
show the correspondence to people who are advising and supporting them. Theyve told us 
theyre seeking help from a third-party organisation about their mortgage, and emails would 
be easier to share than the letters and phone calls theyre having.Halifax did consider Mr and Mrs Cs request, but have explained that they wont 
communicate with customers by email, as it presents a potential security issue that theyre 
not comfortable with.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C may find it easier to communicate with Halifax by email 
rather than by written letters or phone. I appreciate how Mr Cs disability affects his life, 
making it harder for him to do things that people without his conditions may be able to do. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest that communicating over the phone, or via letter 
rather than email puts him at a substantial disadvantage because of his disability. During the 
course of this complaint, both Mr and Mrs C have written and spoken to our service, as well 
as emailed us. 
In fact, I can see from the contact notes that Mr C has regularly called Halifax to discuss his 
mortgage, and although these conversations have sometimes ended unproductively  it 
doesnt seem that Mr C is unable, or finds it difficult, to speak on the phone. Mr and Mrs C 
have also been writing to the bank about their concerns about the mortgage, and making 
complaints. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont think Mr or Mrs C are unable to communicate with 
the bank other than by email. And I dont think communicating in other ways puts them at a 
disadvantage because of Mr Cs disability. I do understand why they would prefer email, but 
thats because its easier to forward messages on to third parties. Its not because Mr Cs 
disability means thats the only way he can communicate, or do so easily. Similarly, Im not 
persuaded their circumstances mean that they are put at a substantial disadvantage, 
compared to Halifaxs other customers, by having to write letters to the bank if they want to 
put things in writing. 
I also note Halifaxs concerns about the security of standard email. While there are ways of 
sending secure email, thats not without cost or administrative difficulties. If this was the only 
way Mr and Mrs C could reasonably communicate with their lender I might think differently, 
but Im not persuaded in this case that I should ask Halifax to amend its systems to use 
secure email to communicate with them.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage is in significant arrears, so regular constructive contact between 
them and the bank is necessary  so they can work together to get the mortgage back on 
track. Looking at the contact notes I can see several of these conversations have taken 
place over the phone, as well as some letters being sent by Mr and Mrs C as well. Halifax 
have arranged for Mr and Mrs Cs account to be case managed with individual oversight  
which means that Mr and Mrs C dont have to repeat everything about their circumstances 
each time they call. I think thats a fair way of helping them manage their interaction with the 
bank.
I understand Mr and Mrs C are in a difficult situation, and this sometimes leads to phone 
calls becoming frustrated and unproductive. But Im not persuaded this is due to the way that 
Halifax are communicating with them. I also havent seen how Halifaxs refusal to speak to 
Mr and Mrs C by email has affected their ability to manage their mortgage, or contact 
Halifax. So overall, considering everything, Im not persuaded Halifax have acted unfairly by 
refusing to communicate with them by email.
Mr and Mrs C feel Halifax are harassing them
Mr and Mrs C have also complained that Halifax are harassing them, again breaching the 
Equality Act 2010. They find the letters Halifax have sent about their arrears distressing, and 
in particular, would not like these to be addressed to Mr C.I appreciate why these letters Halifax have sent may cause Mr and Mrs C upset. They 
explain that their mortgage remains in arrears, and the steps Halifax will take if theres no 
plan agreed to clear them and bring the mortgage up to date. Halifax are required by the 
regulator to keep all parties up to date with the action theyre taking regarding collections 
activity. So asking Halifax to stop addressing letters to both Mr and Mrs C isnt something 
that would be reasonable for our service to do here. 
Having looked at the letters Halifax have sent Mr and Mrs C, Im persuaded theyre factual 
letters informing them about the status of the mortgage account, and asking them to contact 
the bank about proposals to clear the arrears. So whilst Mr and Mrs C find these letters 
distressing, Im not persuaded its because of any unreasonable language or tone contained 
in the letters. I think its most likely due to the reminder these letters present to Mr and Mrs C 
of their financial situation. Considering everything, Im not persuaded the letters Halifax are 
sending Mr and Mrs C constitute harassment. 
Im pleased to hear Mr and Mrs C are seeking advice about how best to proceed with their 
mortgage, as its clear the current situation isnt sustainable. They havent been making the 
full monthly payment for some time now, and the full interest only balance is due to expire in 
the coming years. Its not clear how Mr and Mrs C are planning to repay this, but its 
important that theyre exploring their options as soon as possible so that the balance can be 
repaid when it falls due. 
In the meantime, its going to be important that Mr and Mrs C and Halifax communicate 
constructively about their plans  both to address the outstanding arrears, and also the end 
of the mortgage term. I want to remind all parties that they each have a responsibility to 
ensure theyre keeping each other informed, and working together to resolve the issues. 
The reduction of Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage arrears
In March 2019, Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs C to explain theyd reviewed their mortgage 
account in line with guidance issued by the regulator. They said theyd found at least one of 
Mr and Mrs Cs monthly payments had included amounts towards the arrears, which means 
their monthly payment was higher than it should have been. Theyd calculated the difference 
this would have made had they not included the arrears when setting the monthly payments, 
and adjusted their arrears balance down to £11,730.04 as a result.
Mr C called Halifax to query how theyd worked this out, and Halifax explained theyd look 
into things and call him back. I can see from the contact notes Halifax did try to contact Mr 
and Mrs C to update them, but were unable to get through. So they explained what had 
happened in their final response letter with the rest of their complaint points.
I understand why this letter would have caused confusion for Mr and Mrs C  as they were 
told seemingly out of the blue that their arrears balance had reduced by over £5,000. But 
once they queried this with Halifax, Im satisfied Halifax tried to clarify things for them. 
Halifax have sent us their calculations to show how theyve re-worked Mr and Mrs Cs 
mortgage account in light of the FCAs guidance. Having carefully considered all the 
information provided by both parties, Im satisfied Halifax have put Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage 
account back into the position it would have been, had they done things right. So I wont be 
asking them to compensate Mr and Mrs C any further.
In summary, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs C feel unfairly treated by the way Halifax are 
managing their mortgage account  Im not persuaded that Halifax have acted unfairly here. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs C face obstacles dealing with everyday life, but Im satisfied Halifax have acted reasonably to help them understand and manage their mortgage 
account, and address the arrears that are continuing to grow over time. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C are already seeking advice from a third party. I would also 
encourage them to work with Halifax to agree a plan that works for all parties to get the 
mortgage back on track. And when presented with a plan or proposals, Id expect Halifax to 
continue to show forbearance and remain flexible given Mr and Mrs Cs specific 
circumstances.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman