DRN-3197774
The complaint
Mrs B says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she was in a poor 
financial position and she couldnt afford the loan repayments. She thinks that Morses 
shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan Mrs B started in August 2019. Mrs B 
borrowed £300 and she was due to make 33 repayments of £15.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that Morses had lent 
irresponsibly when it provided this one loan. 
Mrs Bs representative told the adjudicator that she wasnt happy with this outcome, but they 
didnt say why this was. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs B provided when she completed her loan 
application. Mrs B said she had a monthly income of £136 and she had regular monthly 
outgoings of £10. So, it would have been reasonable for Morses to think that Mrs B could 
afford the loan repayments. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mrs Bs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on 
the information it obtained.
Having looked at the information Morses gathered it does show that Mrs B had some 
financial difficulty in the past. And these problems looked to have been significant. But they 
were a reasonable time before this loan started. And Mrs B hasnt provided any evidence 
that shows she was still in difficulty when she borrowed from Morses. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for this loan were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. Im not upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint about it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman