DRN-4475956
The complaint
Mr H complains that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) harassed him for payment of an 
outstanding debt. 
What happened
On 28 February 2023 CRS was instructed to collect a balance of £238.40 by a buy now pay 
later (BNPL) lender Ill refer to as K. On 1 March 2023 CRS emailed Mr H and asked him to 
make contact to discuss the outstanding balance with K. Mr H responded on the same day 
and gave CRS information about his mental health and circumstances. CRS says it emailed 
Mr H back and asked him for permission to note what hed told it on its systems. CRS also 
says a 35 day collections hold was applied. 
CRS says it contacted Mr H again on 2 April 2023 asking him to address the outstanding 
balance. Mr H responded to say he was off work due to his mental health. CRS says it 
emailed Mr H back on 5 April 2023 again to request consent to record what hed told it about 
his health. CRS says it applied another 35 day collections hold. But on 24 April 2023 CRS 
wrote to Mr H again and asked for an update concerning his circumstances. 
On 25 April 2023 Mr H contacted CRS and said hed paid K the outstanding balance as hed 
felt bullied and pressured by CRS. Mr H went on to raise a complaint. 
CRS issued two final responses. CRS initially offered to refund the payment Mr H had made 
to K. But in a follow up final response, CRS said the offer had been made in error. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Hs complaint. They said CRS had been made 
aware that Mr H was vulnerable and experiencing mental health difficulties. The investigator 
also said that despite agreeing to put collections on hold for 35 days on two occasions, it had 
continued to contact Mr H about the outstanding balance. The investigator also pointed out 
Mr H had been incorrectly advised CRS would arrange for his payment to be refunded when 
responding to his complaint. A payment of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
was recommended but CRS asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Hs complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive looked at the level and nature of contact CRS had with Mr H. I agree with the 
investigator that CRS failed to treat Mr H fairly. On his first contact with CRS, Mr H gave it 
very personal information about his health and circumstances. I understand CRS asked for 
consent to record that information on its systems. But I also note CRS says it agreed to 
place a 35 day collections hold on Mr Hs account. 
Despite the collections hold, CRS contacted Mr H within that 35 day period. A further 
collections hold was agreed on 5 April 2021 but CRS continued to communicate with Mr H 
and asked him for updates about his circumstances and the outstanding balance. Im not 
persuaded the level or nature of contact from CRS was reasonable. 
I also think its fair to say that when CRS initially responded to Mr Hs complaint it said a 
refund of the payment he made to K could be arranged. But that offer was later withdrawn 
and Mr H was advised a mistake had been made and that he could contact K directly. Mr H 
has told us this caused him further upset and I think its fair to award some compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
The investigator asked CRS to pay £150 to Mr H to resolve his complaint. Ive carefully 
considered all the available information and Im satisfied that £150 reasonably reflects the 
level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H and is a fair way to resolve his 
complaint. So Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Credit Resource Solutions Ltd pay 
him £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman