DRN-2771152
The complaint
Mr D has complained to Quigley & Partners Limited (QPL) about losses to his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) and a lack of service, which resulted in unapproved fund switches 
and unplanned disinvestments to cover SIPP fees. 
What happened
Mr D became a client of QPL in 2010. In 2014, when Mr D was aged 63 he began to 
consolidate his existing pension plans into a SIPP in preparation for retirement. He was still 
employed and also made regular pension contributions of £500 per month. The SIPP  with 
a firm Ill refer to as S - was invested in a range of managed funds.
Mr D agreed to the Premium ongoing service with QPL, which included annual and interim 
face to face review meetings and reports, rebalancing of his funds at least twice a year and 
ongoing administration. 
In April 2016, when Mr D was aged 65, he retired and transferred another plan to his SIPP 
and started taking a regular income. In February 2018 the SIPP was worth approximately 
£234,000 and the income payments were £1,300 per month. The following month S sent a 
standard letter to QPL explaining that there was an expected shortfall of around £1,177 in 
the cash balance of the SIPP, which was needed to cover expected fees and income 
payments. It explained that to stop your client having a shortfall over the next few months, 
we suggest you move an amount equal to the total estimated shortfall. This should be 
enough to cover 12 months of estimated charges, 6 months of income.and 6 months of 
any other on-going expenses. During the following fifteen months S sent seven further 
similar standard letters to QPL. In January 2019, to improve potential investment 
performance, QPL switched two existing funds in the SIPP to a potentially better performing 
fund.
In May 2019 Mr D became concerned that his SIPP fund had reduced to approximately 
£183,000 a reduction of about £50,000 since February 2018. He met with QPL, who 
contacted S for an explanation. In the meantime to protect the fund value falling further it 
was agreed that Mr D would stop taking income from the SIPP and QPL would switch the 
SIPP to a new provider - at no cost - to facilitate a lower risk investment strategy. The switch 
to new provider was delayed because S had suspended a property fund that Mr D was 
invested in. During this delay, a further fund (Fund W) that Mr D was invested in was also 
suspended. 
Following complaints from QPL on Mr Ds behalf, S identified and corrected a discrepancy 
that had reduced Mr Ds SIPP fund value by approximately £21,000. They also agreed to 
waive the restrictions on the suspended funds and pay the full backdated transfer value to 
the new SIPP provider. They also made a distress & inconvenience payment of £700 to Mr 
D.
In August 2019 Mr D complained to QPL. They rejected his complaint, arguing that they 
needed to allow the SIPP to disinvest funds automatically to pay fees and income, but this 
meant that less funds were out of market; the fund switch was in Mr Ds best interests and 
agreed with him; they had engaged with Mr D on numerous occasions as per their ongoing 
service agreement; and it was their actions that resulted in the favourable outcome from S. 
Mr D was unhappy with QPLs response to the complaint so he asked this service to look 
into his concerns. 
Our investigators findings
One of our investigators reviewed matters and partially upheld the complaint. Ive set out the 
investigators findings below:
The complaint
1. The loss of value to the plan
2. Action not being taken on receipt of the Keeping Cash Healthy (KCH) letters
3. Stock was sold in January 2019 which Mr D says was without his prior knowledge or       
    authorisation
4. The general service provided by QPL since Mr D noticed the decline        
    in value of his plan
5. Mr D is also unhappy that QPL asked for six months fees in advance   
    in one of their communications with S
As there has been a lot of information provided by both parties I thought it best to set out my
findings in response to each of these points below and send it to both of you to give both
parties the opportunity to review it at the same time as well and getting back to me with any
thoughts you may have.
Point one  the loss of value to the plan
When the complaint was first raised Mr D was concerned that the value of his SIPP
account had decreased by approximately £50,000. It took some time to get to the bottom of
what had happened, and it was later discovered that there was an error made by Standard
Life meaning there were funds missing from the SIPP.
So, after some time of Mr D making his enquires about the drop in value it was confirmed by 
QPL that the loss of £50,000 wasnt a true reflection when all contributing factors and errors 
were considered for the period of January 2018 to June 2019.
QPL quoted the following amounts in relation to the plan and value;
A loss of £21,110.71 due to Ss error
Total monthly income paid out to Mr D during this time of £23,400
Adviser charges of £3,235.38 and fund charges of £1,500.62 were deducted from the 
plan
These amounts total £49,246.71  therefore around the amount mentioned of £50,000. So,
taking this into consideration it would mean a difference of approximately £753 which I said I
didnt think is unreasonable given the value of the plan can go up and down in line with the
nature of investments.
However, when putting this to Mr D he said that the above doesnt take into account any 
growth the plan may have achieved and that had the KCH letters not been ignored, he
wouldve reduced or stopped his income and the plan wouldve continued to grow.Mr D says that had the SIPP remained invested as it was in March/April 2018 he wouldve 
expected it to continue to grow. He says had he been contacted as he shouldve in
April 2018 the balance may have been higher, and he would like to get the fund back to
where it shouldve been at this point.
He also added he hasnt taken any income from the SIPP since May 2019 to try and recoup
the losses already suffered.
However, I believe this point is directly affected by the second complaint point in regard to
the KCH letters, as per the comments above, so at this stage I think it best if I move on to
this point.
Point two  KCH letters sent by S
Mr D is unhappy that he wasnt informed of these letters that S were
sending to QPL. From the information Ive looked at it appears that these
letters were brought to Mr Ds attention in mid-2019 when he was in contact with
S as he asked them for a further explanation and dates of these letters. It was
confirmed these letters had been sent on the following dates;
11 January 2018
15 March 2018
11 May 2018
12 July 2018
13 September 2018
14 December 2018
14 February 2019
11 April 2019
Having looked at one of the examples of the KCH letters it confirms that there is a shortfall in
the SIPP bank account and that QPL should take action to make sure the client had enough 
money in the SIPP bank account and also provides options on how to correct the shortfall. It 
also confirms what will happen if no action is taken (investments sold by S to cover the 
estimated shortfall).
When I asked QPL about this point, they explained that the SIPP had always been set up 
with the provision that there is an automatic disinvestment facility. They said it could be 
topped up by selling down individual funds or proportionately across all funds on a regular 
basis but could mean that a proportion of the clients money was sitting in a cash account 
and therefore actively out of the market.
They went on to say that the KCH letter is automatically generated by Ss
system and S carry out an automatic disinvestment, should cash not be
available.
QPL said they received the letters, but they werent shown to Mr D but that they were 
discussed briefly with him and that on at least one occasion it was explained that automatic 
disinvestment would allow for the funds to be in the market for longer which under normal 
conditions ensures a better return.
They also say that following receipt of an email in November 2018 a member of staff
checked with S about the KCH letters and S informed them because
Mr Ds account was in drawdown, they couldnt set up regular sell to ensure cash was
available and were advised by S to continue as they had been with the auto
disinvestment process and ignore the letters.QPL also say that with regards to Mr D income, this wouldve been discussed during each of 
the reviews held and at no point was a reduction to the income instructed or highlighted.
Mr D states that had he been made aware of these letters and also taking into
consideration the fall in value to his plan, he wouldve reduced or stopped his income from
the SIPP. He confirmed the income was nice to have but the funds werent necessary or
required for day to day living and he was also in receipt of another pension, and that at no
point was it suggested to drop his income. But as already mentioned he stopped the income
in May 2019 to try and recoup his losses.
I also got in touch with S regarding this issue to get their comments on the
process and to clarify the points raised above.
They confirmed that Mr D received a regular income of £1,300 per month up to and
including 1 June 2019  which confirms what Mr D has told me about requesting to
stop his income in May 2019.
I also asked them if they could let me know what kind of impact stopping the income
wouldve had on the plan so I could consider whether it wouldve been a positive or negative
in this situation. They confirmed the following details;
The income was disinvested from the three S Insured funds and SIPP bank
account. The total income paid from 1 February 2018 to 1 June 2019 was £22,100 and was
disinvested as follows;
Fund £ Units
SL SLI UK Real Estate Pension Fund (2R) £2,790.47 2135.155
SL SLI UK Equity Unconstrained Pension Fund 
(RQ)£1,657.36 846.154
SL Aviva Investors Property Pension Fund (RM) £2,347.83 1682.394
SIPP Bank Account £15,304.34
They confirmed that a number of KCH letters were issued and these were to highlight there
wasnt enough in the SIPP bank account to cover charges and income, and to ensure it
didnt go into negative. They said that during the same period as above there were eight
fund switches processed. These were from two of the S Insured funds (SL Aviva
Investors Property Pension Fund was in deferral and therefore couldnt switch out of this
fund). The total number of units switched out to the SIPP bank account was;
Fund £ Units
SL SLI UK Real Estate Pension Fund (2R) £4,508.75 3430.757
SL SLI UK Equity Unconstrained Pension 
Fund (RQ)£2,624.34 1367.542
S explained that on review of the transactions on the run up to the transfer out to
[new pension provider] (June 2019) they switched all units in the SL Aviva Investors Property 
Pension Fund (RM) to the SIPP bank account on 11 June 2019 with a unit price of 
142.813.749. They say that if they had not paid out the income then there wouldve been 
1682.394 additional units to switch at this time. The value of those units wouldve been 
£2,402.69 and this is £54.86 more than what they had disinvested for the income (£2,347.83 
[RM fund quoted in first table] - £2,402.69).They say that the other two funds were switched to SIPP cash on 25 June 2019 (the day
before they processed the transfer) and the units disinvested for the income wouldve been
worth;
Fund Price Units £ Difference
SL SLI UK Real Estate 133.045503 2135.155 £2,840.73 -£50.26 (£2,790.47 -
Pension Fund (2R) £2,840.73)
SL SLI UK Equity 174.122144 846.154 £1,473.34 £184.02 (£1,657.36 -
Unconstrained Pension Fund £1,473.34)
(RQ)
They say if they also take into account the units switched as part of the KCH process then
these would be worth on the day before transfer;
Fund Price Units £ Difference
SL SLI UK Real Estate 133.045503 3430.757 £4,564.47 -£55.72 (£4,508.75 -
Pension Fund (2R) £4,564.47)
SL SLI UK Equity 174.122144 1367.542 £2,381.19 £243.15 (£2,624.34 -
Unconstrained Pension Fund £2,381.19)
(RQ)
In summary S said that the plan had a net gain of £266.33 (-£54.86 + -£50.26 +
£184.02 + -£55.72 + £243.15) as a result of the income continuing and the KCH switches
when they were. But they say if the income had stopped then there would be more benefits
still invested with the pension wrapper.
Having given this point careful consideration I dont think theres enough to say that Quigley
& Partners discussed the KCH letters in detail with Mr D as they shouldve done. And I
think Mr D wouldve acted differently had he been informed of these letters.
I appreciate that this is being reviewed with the benefit of hindsight however, Mr D says
had he known about the KCH issue he wouldve stopped his income to try and help the
situation. And I think this is evidenced by the fact that when he did find out about these
letters in 2019, he did in fact stop the income. He says he requested to stop the income in
May 2019 to try and recoup the losses incurred. And he also confirms the income wasnt
required and was also in receipt of another pension. So, he did taken action by stopping his
income to try and prevent further losses to his plan so I think this is sufficient to say that he
wouldve taken this same action had it been discussed properly on receipt of the KCH
letters.
Its difficult to say now at what point Mr D wouldve taken this action as there were eight
letters sent in total (as listed above). I dont think its fair to say that this action wouldve been
taken immediately on perhaps the first few letters as there were other options outlined by
S on these letters to ensure the SIPP bank account didnt go into negative and I
dont think on the balance of probabilities that the immediate reaction wouldve been to stop
the income. However, I think its fair to say by the fourth letter (12 July 2018) action wouldve
been taken by Mr D in the way of him stopping his income.
So, the next step is to work out what wouldve happened to the plan had the income been
stopped in July 2018 and what position the policy wouldve been in on transfer in June 2019
had this happened.
I have today asked S to calculate the value of the plan on the date of transfer,
had the income been stopped after 12 July 2018. I will then compare this to the actual valueof the plan on the date of the transfer and deduct the income Mr D has actually been in
receipt of (in line with the dates in question). Ive requested all these amounts from Standard
Life.
If Mr D has suffered a loss when comparing these values, then I think it would be fair
for QPL to pay this amount to Mr D as a fair outcome to this particular complaint point.
Point three  stock sold in January 2019
Mr D says that stock was sold by QPL in January 2019 without his prior knowledge or 
consent.
Mr D argues that from this point until April 2019 the value of the fund dropped, and he
doesnt understand why these particular stocks were sold as they rose significantly between
February and May and as such he wouldve been able to recoup some of the losses during
this period had they not been sold.
In response to this point, QPL confirms that he had a telephone review with Mr
D on 11 January 2019 and that discussion covered the value and the individual funds
held in the SIPP portfolio. He says they discussed the underperformance of Aviva and
Ss Absolute Return Funds (Aviva Multi Strategy Targeted Return and Standard
Life GARS) and that he recommended a switch to Royal Londons Sterling Extra Yield Bond,
which would mean investing in a different asset class at a similar risk level but with better
performance.
He says Mr D agreed and as such the switch was carried out. Theyve also provided
evidence which shows their diary print outs of every appointment and phone call theyve had
with Mr D and this records an entry from 11 January 2019 telephone call J D 
fund switch instructed. This confirmation was then sent in an email on 16 January 2019 and
confirmed that switch was in the process of being actioned. It doesnt appear there was any
questions raised by Mr D following this.
Having given this point further consideration I think theres enough evidence to suggest a
discussion was held about the switch before it took place and also following the email being
sent there was no question raised by Mr D as to why this action had taken place, which
I wouldve expected had he not had any knowledge of it and was unhappy with this action.
QPL has also provided evidence of the performance of the funds Mr D was invested in (S 
funds) as well as the performance of the funds he was switched into (Royal London). This 
information shows that at the time the fund switch took place in January 2019 the two funds 
invested in decreased in value, so I dont necessarily think a fund switch at this time was 
unreasonable. This evidence also shows the fund that Mr D was switched into (Royal 
Londons Sterling Extra Yield Bond) was performing above the existing funds and continued 
to do so.
So, whilst I can appreciate Mr Ds comments that he thinks he shouldve remained in the
existing funds because they did pick up again, the decision had to be taken in January 2019
without the knowledge or foresight to know whether those funds would pick back up or not.
QPL had two options; to leave the funds invested as they were in the hope that the
performance improved and the value picked back up (which no one would be able to 
foresee), or to act in that moment and try and prevent further losses. So I dont think it would
be fair to hold the business responsible for this as they made a choice and based on the
evidence provided the existing funds had taken a dip in value at the time whereas the new
fund was outperforming the existing ones, so I dont think it was an unreasonable step to
take.The other option leaves the funds invested and leaves Mr D to ride out those losses in
the hope that the funds pick back up again. And as Mr D had already raised issues with
the losses incurred to his plan, I think its fair to say that QPL was trying to act in his clients 
best interests to try to prevent any further losses to the plan.
Point four  general service provided by QPL
One of the main points raised by Mr D is that he asked numerous times why his fund value 
was declining and that he never got a satisfactory answer. He felt his warnings were
ignored and therefore he continued to lose money. He feels QPL as his adviser shouldve 
picked up on the falling value of his plan himself.
In response to these points QPL said that Mr Ds concerns werent ignored, and he first 
contacted them in May 2019 regarding his concerns about the drop in value and as such a 
face to face review was arranged for the following day. After this review it was decided to 
transfer the full SIPP to Prudentials Retirement Account and the relevant paperwork was 
completed. Unfortunately, there was a delay with the transfer, but this was a result of issues 
at Ss end and some of the funds had been suspended.
However, after QPL raised a complaint with them they actioned the full transfer of all 
suspended funds and also best pricing of the Woodford fund as of the day of the request
and that S also offered compensation to Mr D.
They said they dont offer a discretionary management service, but that each time QPL 
spoke to Mr D he would run a valuation for all investments held and there was 
nothing in previous reports or valuations to cause alarm.
They also provided me with a chart which details the specific dates QPL ran and reviewed 
Mr D SIPP valuation and performance.
Client: Mr J P D 05.04.2017 06.07.2018 16.01.2019
S SIPP
D1192889000£228,669.19 £223.861.17 £202,4994.151
They said that looking at each date, the valuations were reflective of global market
conditions and as there was a regular income the figures didnt highlight anything unusual
and that investing always holds the warning that valuations can go up as well as down.
Having reviewed these values and comments I think the response from QPL is reasonable 
and drops in value to the plan are the nature of investments. However I think the January 
2019 value did show a significant fall in the value but having said that action was taken at 
this point in the way of the fund switch which Ive already covered above. As such I think this 
seems reasonable.
As mentioned, QPL they said that they dont provide a discretionary management service 
and as such they are unable to monitor each clients portfolio on a daily basis. And to an 
extent this is correct.
However, when Mr D took out the plan he could choose between different levels of
service, for a variety of fees, and he selected the top level service available  the Premium
service - which included some of the following;
A review of investments offered every six monthsIn addition to the annual meeting, they will hold an interim review meeting during 
which they will review your circumstances, needs, priorities and investment 
performance against the goals agreed at your main review meeting
They will provide annual, interim and adhoc review reports, rebalancing of your 
investments as and when required, but at least twice a year, telephone/email 
assistance throughout the year, end of year tax service and liaison with third party 
professionals
Mr D says he didnt receive the six-monthly review; no yearly meetings were arranged
and that he didnt receive any reports about his pension from its commencement. So, I put
these comments to QPL and asked them to evidence that theyd provided the
service that Mr D has been paying for.
In response to this QPL said that they try to operate an open door practise and try
to offer each client a bespoke service, as and when they need it. They say that not every
single phone call is recorded, and also calls were carried out on his personal mobile, as well
as the office phone but they were able to provide evidence of the records they do have
which shows their contact with Mr D on the following dates;
6 July 2018
11 January 2019
10 May 2019
12 June 2019
17 June 2019
In addition, to the calls logged above, QPL sent 29 emails to Mr D. They
also highlighted that from the commencement of the professional relationship 14 review
meetings were held over 8 years.
Having looked at the level of contact it would appear that QPL were doing
their best to offer the level of service required to Mr D. And I also think the above
evidences they were meeting the service standards required as set out in the bullet points
above.
I also asked QPL about the rebalancing option of the service package (as
mentioned above). This was because if rebalancing of investments took place as and when
required would this have meant that the drop in value of the funds shouldve been noticed
earlier on?
They said that some clients may have a portfolio management process in which investment
funds that have appreciated are sold in order to take a profit and the profits are re-invested
into sectors that are out of favour.
Some clients who are in risk rated managed portfolios have an automatic re-balancing
facility in place as it allows investors to keep the asset allocation of the portfolio in line with
their stated investment goals.
They explained that in Mr Ds case re-balancing was offered on an ad-hoc basis rather
than an automated one and what was more likely to happen in his case was actual fund
switching as none of the funds had performed as well as expected. They said this scenario
was seen in January 2019 with the fund switch carried out at that time. They said 
rebalancing was considered but the preferred option was to switch to a new appropriately 
risk rated fund with a proven track record.They said that the concept of re-balancing had been discussed in the past with Mr D
but actual fund switching in his case always seemed more appropriate as there was never
excessive growth to an extent that this procedure needed to take place in order to re-risk the
portfolio back to the original risk profile.
Having reviewed the application from when the SIPP was taken out this confirms Mr D
invested in what is referred to as Level 1 Investments  S Investment Policy
Funds, SIPP Bank Account.
There is a further option here under Level 3 Investments to have the managed portfolio
service but it doesnt look like this was selected so as per the above Mr Ds SIPP
wouldnt be considered a managed portfolio and as such it wouldnt apply and I think the
comments from QPL are reasonable in regards to the action taken with fund switches rather 
than re-balancing as it doesnt appear that rebalancing was relevant for Mr D plan or his 
particular investments.
Having considered all of the above points and information I think that QPL
were providing the service that Mr D was paying for. I appreciate that Mr D feels
his adviser shouldve done more and its fair to say there is always more that could be done
but ultimately the adviser did what was expected of them and as such I wont be asking
QPL to do anything more here in regard to this point.
Point five - QPL asked for six months fees in advance
Mr D says that another real concern he has is the phone call that was made to
S by QPL in which they asked for six months fees in advance. He
says when he asked about this, he was told it was normal but Mr D feels the charges
were already exacerbating the disinvestment problem and if S had agreed it
wouldve made the loss even bigger.
I asked QPL for their comments on this to determine exactly what happened.
They clarified that as per the Service and Payment Agreement they will deduct the
fees/charges from the plan and that they receive an Ongoing Adviser Charge (OAC) of 1%
per annum which theyve said was then paid as 1/12th monthly directly by S.
They say that they do not and never have received OAC payments in advance. They
explained that this issue has been raised after Mr D viewed their in-house notes during
a review in June 2019 where it was highlighted that this was usual practise and they were
advised to sell down 6 months of fees.
This issue is linked to the KCH letters and this is why QPL contacted Standard
Life and how the question came about in November 2018. They say the actual note being
referred to by Mr D is;
14.11.2018 spoke to [SM]  re Selling funds down for health cash account for Mthly adviser 
fee and fund charge (Roughly £250 p/m) they will continue to sell down automatically but it 
will generate letters which we can ignore. As because in Drip Drawdown we cant instruct a 
sell down ourselves. ZT
QPL has now provided me with further detail regarding the note and this call.
They explained the agent at QPL ZT had contacted S on 14 November 2018 to discuss the 
KCH letter and as mentioned previously theyd been advised by S the auto disinvestment 
model would automatically do what was needed and
it meant Mr D money remained in the market as opposed to a cash account.They said that on the call ZT highlighted selling down six months worth of fees to keep cash
healthy however the call concluded that as Mr Ds pension was in drip feed drawdown,
they were unable to keep the cash account healthy and it was agreed with the call handler
they would continue to ignore the KCH letter and Mr Ds account would continue to be
managed using the automatic disinvestment as this was the only option available.
QPL also have provided me with literature from S regarding the automatic disinvestment 
model and also sent me the internal SIPP automatic disinvestment
matrix which makes reference to selling down the equivalent of six months total charges. So
this provides some context as to why this option was considered and discussed, although it
was discounted.
In summary QPL explained that its the interpretation of the internal note thats
caused the complaint but as per the above it was an option to consider and they hadnt
asked Mr D to be paid in advance.
Having considered this point further I think it was perhaps confusing to Mr D because
all he was seeing was an internal note, which is brief as it was for internal purposes only.
However, when getting more information and context from QPL it was a valid
point to consider under the KCH guidance they had from S and discussed with
them as well. But, it was discounted and no further action was taken regarding this specific
point so there is no further action to be considered here as the six months fees were never
paid up front..
Mr Ds submissions 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings because she had acknowledged that he didnt 
receive the Premium service he was paying for but had said this was acceptable. And he 
maintains that QPLs negligence contributed to his loss and distress regarding this matter.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to apologise to both parties for the delay in the complaint getting to this stage. 
Our investigator provided a very detailed overview of the complaint in her view which Ive set 
out above. And having now review the file in full, I can confirm that I agree with the 
investigators finding for mostly the same reasons. 
I dont intend to go in to as much detail as the investigator has as I see little point in 
reiterating what has already been set out above. Instead, Ive focused on responding to the 
main concerns that Mr D still remains unhappy with. 
Its important to explain that QPL were not providing Mr D with a discretionary fund 
management service. So it wasnt required to monitor Mr Ws funds regularly and make fund 
switches each time it looked like an investment wasnt performing as hoped. 
It seems from what Mr D has said, he was expecting QPL to closely monitor his fund, 
particularly after he raised concerns about it. But I dont think it was required to do this. 
QPL has provided various submissions to support the service it provided to Mr D. I know Mr 
D disputes some of these reviews taking place but on the whole, I think QPL provided the 
service it was required to do. I appreciate Mr D says that he wasnt invited to any review meetings but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that these review meetings needed to be face to face. Mr D seems to 
acknowledge that he had six meetings but in particular he disputes a review meeting taking 
place in January 2019. 
QPL has provided a print of a diary entry from 11 January 2019, confirming a telephone call 
with Mr D and its noted that a fund switch has been instructed. This is later followed up with 
an email confirming the fund switches, as had been discussed. While Mr D may not have 
considered this a review meeting, I think the fact that Mr Ds plan was discussed and 
changes were made to the investments, suggests to me that a review took place.  
I do appreciate that some of the contact from QPL was as a result of Mr D instigating this. 
But I dont think that means that QPL wasnt negligent and wasnt doing what it should. 
Mr D says that when he contacted QPL in May 2019, it was still unable to tell him why the 
fund value had dropped. But this suggests that QPL should have been monitoring Mr Ds 
fund throughout this time. But as Ive said above, its not a discretionary fund manager so I 
dont think its unreasonable that the plan hadnt been reviewed since the fund switches in 
January. And Im aware that after the meeting in May, QPL did take the drop in value up with 
S. This resulted in Ss errors being identified and corrected.  
In terms of the KCH letters, the investigator concluded that if Mr D has been told about these 
letters, he would have stopped taking income in July 2018. Im conscious that QPL has 
provided a diary entry that suggests that meeting or call took place on 6 July 2018 and the 
noted states Norwegian pension change  SL  Income. So although I appreciate Mr D 
may not recall, I do think this suggests that a meeting or discussion around income took 
place around this time. But in any event the investigator thought that Mr D would have 
stopped taking income around this time and she asked S for confirmation of the impact this 
would have had on Mr Ds plan. 
S has now confirmed that actual value of the plan on transfer was £204,207.53. If the 
income had been stopped from 12 July 2018 then the value on transfer wouldve been 
£218,486.99 (£14,279.46 more). Between 12 July 2018 to June 2019 the total income Mr D 
received was £14,300. So hes not suffered a loss here. 
Overall I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from QPL but I think 
this stems from the errors caused by S and the misunderstanding Mr D had that QPL would 
be monitoring his fund continuously. I know he has concerns that the KCH letters werent 
discussed with him. But Im satisfied that a discussion took place with S around these letters 
and QPL were essentially told to ignore then. 
Putting things right
As its been determined that Mr D hasnt suffered a loss as a result of not stopping his 
income payments in July 2018, I dont think QPL needs to do any more to put matters right. My final decision
As its been determined that Mr D hasnt suffered a loss, Quigley & Partners Limited dont 
need to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman