DRN-1627372
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the settlement valuation SGS Business Process Services (UK) 
Limited (SGS) got for his car after it was deemed a total loss following a road traffic accident.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr A was involved in an accident that wasnt his fault. He didnt make a 
claim on his motor insurance policy, but used the services of SGS, an accident management 
company (AMC).
After an independent engineer inspected Mr As car, it was decided that the car was a total 
loss, this means it was beyond economical repair. Mr A said he was offered a pre accident 
value (PAV) of £1,214.10 that he said was too low. And that to purchase a similar car, hed 
need to pay between £2,800 and £3,000.
He also said SGS had said hed agreed to accept the PAV when he hadnt, as they wanted 
to take back the hire car he was using.
 SGS said the independent engineer had valued Mr As car against the industry guides. And 
that his car also had high mileage use which would factor into the valuation.
Mr A wasnt happy with SGS response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the PAV had been based fairly on the industry guides, so didnt ask 
SGS to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
SGS, as an AMC, aim to provide their customers with a hire vehicle and repair the damage 
caused to the vehicle by the accident  or determine the PAV of the vehicle if it is deemed 
non repairable. And claim this back from the third-party insurer (TPI). As part of the claims 
process SGS has a duty to mitigate costs as the TPI can refuse to pay. 
It isnt our role to consider who was at fault for the accident or to investigate the accident 
claim. And it isnt our role to value Mr As car but to look to see whether SGS have acted 
fairly and reasonably in carrying out accident management activities.
Mr As accident happened in September 2019. I can see that SGS were proactive in trying to 
arrange for Mr As car to be assessed for damage caused by the accident. And this was 
done in November 2019 by an independent engineer. The independent engineer didnt work specifically for any of the parties involved in the claim and so, made their own assessment. 
In this case the independent engineer valued Mr As car at £1,214.10. And the TPI sent a 
payment for this amount to Mr A in early December 2019.
I can understand Mr As frustration as he didnt agree with the valuation that was made. And 
he sent adverts to SGS to challenge this valuation as similar cars were being advertised at a 
higher selling price. 
So, Id have expected SGS in administering his claim and knowing Mr A was still unhappy 
about the valuation, to have asked the independent engineer to consider the valuation 
against Mr As comments. And this they did. I can see they sent the adverts Mr A had given 
to them. And Ive seen that the independent engineer valued Mr As car based on industry 
guidelines, looking across the price guides. 
Our approach, in looking to see if a valuation is fair and reasonable, is to check the 
relevant recognised industry guides. And to consider whether a reasonable offer has been 
made in line with them. Typically, guides will be more persuasive than adverts as theyre 
based on research of nationwide selling prices. By comparison, adverts dont account for 
any negotiations over prices. For Mr A, this might mean the PAV is lower than the price he 
saw for similar cars being advertised. Our investigator considered the industry guides and 
agreed that the valuation made by the independent engineer fell into line with these.
So, I cant say SGS or the independent engineer did anything wrong by not increasing the 
PAV. 
Mr A said that SGS looked to take back the hire car before hed accepted the PAV. As I 
outlined above, SGS has a responsibility to mitigate any costs. And a hire vehicle should be 
returned within 24 hours of repairs being completed, or seven days of the PAV payment 
being received  any hire charges incurred after this date could have become Mr As 
responsibility. 
I can see that Mr A told SGS he hadnt received the PAV payment from the TPI when they 
said it had been sent. The payment of the PAV is the sole responsibility of the TPI, and all 
SGS can do is chase them for this, which they did.
So, Im satisfied that SGS acted fairly and reasonably in carrying out the accident 
management activities for Mr A.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman