DRN-2340763
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Saffron Building Society instructing a surveyor who undervalued her 
property.
 
What happened
Mrs B applied for a mortgage with Saffron who appointed a surveyor to value her property 
for mortgage purposes. 
She thought her property was worth approximately £775,000 but when the valuation was 
completed the surveyor had valued her property at £700,000. Based on this value Saffron 
were unable to offer Mrs B the mortgage she had applied for. 
Mrs B felt her property had been undervalued because a previous chartered surveyor had 
valued the property at £738,000 in July 2018. She requested the valuation be appealed and 
Saffron submitted the request. The surveyor responded supporting the valuation figure of 
£700,000.
Still unhappy with the valuation Mrs B raised a complaint directly with the surveyor. The 
surveyor agreed to have another independent surveyor complete a valuation. The 
independent surveyor initially valued the property at £700,000 but later changed this to 
£730,000.
Mrs B raised a complaint with Saffron about the surveyor and the valuation. Saffron 
responded saying it had appointed an industry recognised firm of valuers who acted in 
accordance with industry standards and regulation. It also explained the valuation was for 
mortgage lending purposes only and the reduced value of the property meant it was unable 
to provide Mrs B with a mortgage. Unhappy, Mrs B raised a complaint with our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained that Saffron 
had employed a suitably qualified surveyor to conduct the valuation and that they couldnt 
hold Saffron responsible for the content of the valuation. This was because the surveyor is 
an independent body who has been employed to provide a service to Saffron.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She explained that the reason for 
her complaint was because she would never have appointed a surveyor with such poor 
reviews. She also said that she was unable to raise a complaint about the surveyor as it 
needed to come directly from Saffron.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Saffron doesnt have the expertise to value a property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, it must ensure it instructs a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
requirement it met by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 
(RICS). 
Saffron are not responsible for the contents of the valuation or the value a surveyor has 
given a property. We can only consider complaints against Saffron for things it did (or didnt 
do)  this doesnt include the value the surveyor gave Mrs Bs property. All I can consider 
against Saffron is whether it instructed a suitably qualified surveyor and whether it is fair for it 
to rely on the valuation provided. Having considered everything, Im satisfied it did instruct a 
suitably qualified surveyor and its fair for it to rely on the valuation provided. 
I appreciate that Mrs B disagrees with the value the surveyor gave her property and that this 
prevented her from obtaining a mortgage with Saffron. But its not unreasonable for Saffron 
to rely upon the information provided by a suitably qualified surveyor when making its 
decision on whether to lend to Mrs B. However, where a customer disputes a valuation as 
Mrs B has, I would expect Saffron to give due consideration to what was being said. I think 
Saffron did this by raising an appeal with the surveyor about the value of the property and 
reviewing the results before making its lending decision. 
Mrs B has said she wants the £960 she paid for the mortgage application and valuation to be 
refunded because she didnt receive the professional service she paid for. I dont agree this 
is the case. Its clear that a valuation on her property was conducted and that a mortgage 
application took place. I appreciate that the value of her property wasnt what she expected 
and that she was unable to obtain a mortgage but that doesnt mean Saffron should refund 
the £960. Ultimately, the valuation was for the benefit of Saffron to help it assess whether 
Mrs Bs property was suitable security for the mortgage she was applying for. 
I understand that Mrs B has also said she is unable to pursue a complaint about the 
surveyor with RICS because it needs to be made by Saffron. I appreciate this must be 
frustrating for her but deciding whether to complain about the valuation is something for 
Saffron to decide for itself. It is not something for me to decide here as I can only consider 
Saffrons treatment of Mrs B. 
Whilst I can appreciate that the process was frustrating for Mrs B, I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude that Saffron have done anything wrong by instructing the surveyor and 
relying on the valuation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021. 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman