DRN-3402517
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about advice they received regarding Mr Ss term assurance cover, 
sold by an independent financial adviser from Financial Management (FM) in 2009. 
Specifically, they say the adviser failed to correctly record accurate health details, which has 
required them to undergo re-underwriting of their cover with their insurer. They also say that 
the adviser told Mr S to reapply for cover in 2012, 2014 and 2016, which was not necessary.
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs S began to have concerns about the advice theyd received. They say 
this was because a family member (who was also a client of the same adviser) had a life 
assurance claim refused due to misrepresentation. This gave them cause to revisit the 
various applications Mr S had completed with the adviser since 2009 and with Mrs S in 
2016. Having done so, they noted that the adviser had failed to properly record their details.  
In 2018, Mr and Mrs S sent FM a subject access request regarding data held about Mr S. 
They then complained to FM in March 2019. 
On 16 July 2019, FM issued a response to the complaint. It provided a complete indexed 
report into each of the occasions Mr and Mrs S had received advice. In summary, FM denied 
any wrongdoing on any of the occasions, noting it had sent some eleven separate 
correspondences relating to the reading, signing, and correcting of the various insurance 
applications. It didnt believe any of the policies had been unsuitable, noting the adviser had 
an unblemished thirty-year record of providing advice. It therefore rejected the complaint.  
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint here in February 2020 but FM did not consent for it to 
be considered further, under the rules applying to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint, specifically noting that he felt that Mr and Mrs Ss 
explanation for the delay in bringing the complaint amounted to exceptional circumstances. 
FM disagreed. It said the complaint was pursued later than six months from its final 
response letter and therefore it was lodged out of time. The complaint was then passed to 
me for a decision on jurisdiction. I concluded that it should be allowed to proceed. 
Our investigator then continued his investigation into the merits of the complaint. Having 
done so, he did not think the complaint should succeed. He said he didnt feel the timing of 
reviews or the fact the adviser would have earned commission rendered the sales unfair. In 
his view, it wasnt an unreasonable prospect to revisit protection needs periodically.  
In respect of the reviews, he did not believe there was any evidence to show the 
recommendations were unreasonable. And he noted that Mr S had been given the 
opportunity to check and review the cover provided by the policies. 
Whilst he noted the 2014 review did have a concern over Mr Ss smoking status, this was 
put right by FM at the time, in a letter of 27 May 2014. 
Mr and Mrs S said they disagreed with the investigator and they wanted their complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said, in summary:
at no time were they given the right to refuse the review of their circumstances;
on each occasion, they were not informed that they could leave the cover as it was;
they feel they were cheated out of paying more and more for policies in order to 
generate commission for the adviser;
it is only now that they understand the insurances could have been left alone;
they reiterate that the adviser told Mr S not to disclose the type of cancer that his 
father and brother suffered from;
however, on contacting the insurer directly in 2017 they realised that this was 
material information to disclose and the insurer could have voided their policy if 
theyd needed to make a claim;
on this basis, they feel the 2014, 2012, and 2009 policies were likely taken out on 
falsehoods and were of no value in the event of any claims;
their view is that FMs adviser lied and cheated in order to generate commission.    
FM did not make any further comments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise that this wont be what Mr and Mrs S have hoped for, I am not going to 
uphold their complaint. Ill set out my reasons for that below.  
I note that there isnt a complete set of documentation from each sale; that is to be expected, 
because of the amount of time that has passed. I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Ss 
recollections, and I can how they have gone into some detail about what happened at the 
time. I must also weigh up what FM says, as it has also likewise supplied a detailed account 
of the circumstances of each sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded 
what I believe is most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
I also note that Mr and Mrs S now feel that the commission paid to the adviser for the sales 
of the policies was unreasonable since the sales were not appropriate. That the adviser 
earned commission (where it was properly highlighted to Mr and Mrs S) doesnt mean the 
advice was necessarily unreasonable. What I must look at is if the adviser obtained the 
relevant information about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances in order to make appropriate 
proposals. 
It is worth noting here that advice to consider protection for the possible events of death or 
critical illness are prudent steps to take as part of financial planning. This is particularly the 
case where an applicant has a debt to protect (Mr S had a documented mortgage liability) 
and/or dependents. At the time of the first advice, Mr S was noted as separated, having 
responsibility for three dependent children. 
I recognise that policies of this nature are often held for the longer term, without amendment. 
But, providing it is viable to reinsure (i.e. cover of the same natured will be accepted by an 
insurer) then consumers may revisit their protection needs periodically with advisers, to 
ensure that their policies best reflect their circumstances.  Looking at the complaint put to FM in March 2019, the concerns Mr and Mrs S held about 
the 2009 application (for Mr S only) for £60,000 of level critical illness cover and £75,000 of 
level life cover were not about the requirement for the cover but the medical information 
disclosed in the application  they say this wasnt properly recorded. 
The recommendation made by FMs adviser offered an increase to the current amount of 
critical illness cover Mr S held, for an increase of £9 per month. It was recorded Mr S could 
commit an extra £10 per month for his protection needs.   
I realise Mr S gives a notably different version of events from what was recorded in the 2009 
documentation. But I have to be mindful that the documentation shows Mr S was sent a 
completed application for the advice to approve and return  and he did so. A further copy of 
the completed application was sent to him by the insurer. If there had been errors on the 
application, Id expect Mr S to have identified them, as he would know his medical 
circumstances more accurately than the adviser. On the information Ive seen, I cannot 
conclude that the proposal in 2009 was unreasonable or inaccurately recorded. It did result 
in an increased premium from the cover Mr S already held, but this paid for a greater amount 
of critical illness benefit.  
In 2012, Mr Ss circumstances had changed somewhat. On this basis, the adviser reviewed 
his protection needs. Mr S no longer had responsibility for all of his children  and some 
worked for him, as Mr S was self-employed. It was established by the adviser that Mr Ss 
needs had altered  his mortgage had decreased. On that basis, the adviser discussed 
seeking cover which had a lower sum assured but a longer term. 
There is evidence available of a letter from FMs adviser dated 7 March 2012. It attached the 
suitability report issued by the adviser, noting Mr S should contact FM if there were any 
inaccuracies. On balance, I dont believe it was likely that the adviser made a 
recommendation contrary to Mr Ss needs and requirements at the time. 
Though the recommendation did see a further £8 increase to the premium, the term of the 
cover changed  and therefore the policy would cost more on that basis. As before, I dont 
believe that the proposal in 2009 was unreasonable or inaccurately recorded.
In 2014, a similar amendment took place with an extension to the term of Mr Ss policies. For 
the same reasons Ive already given, I dont believe that this is an unfair proposal for the 
adviser. If Mr S hadnt wished to proceed with the amendments, he could have refused to do 
so. I say that specifically noting that in the recommendations letter of 26 March 2014, FMs 
adviser noted how Mr S declined the option of adding premium waiver benefit to his cover.  
At that time, a further issue arose with a declaration Mr S made in relation to his smoker 
status. On reviewing his documentation (by this time, the process was for the insurer to send 
the policy answers, not FM) Mr S noticed he had erroneously been recorded as a non-
smoker when he had used tobacco products within the time frame asked in the insurers 
medical questions. He contacted FM two months later on 27 May 2014 to correct the 
answer. As a result, the sum assured on the policy was reduced to account for smokers 
rates.  
I do not believe that because an error in the application occurred, that FM acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances. The checking process with the insurer was in place to 
ensure accurate medical information was captured. Though a mistake was made, we do not 
have evidence from the meeting to determine the circumstances of the mistake. However, 
FM took prompt action upon Mr S returning to it once hed checked the policy  I dont 
believe it ought to have done anything more.  In 2016, Mr Ss circumstances had changed again  and the recommendations given by 
FMs adviser at that time were for both himself and Mrs S, and accordingly joint cover was 
sought. I do not believe it was inappropriate for the adviser to therefore make fresh 
recommendations for cover based on Mr and Mrs Ss stated needs  at which time they both 
had documented financial liabilities in the form of mortgages.  
I realise Mr and Mrs S say that the adviser failed on all of the occasions to properly put 
medical questions to them. But from the information Ive seen, I dont consider that to be the 
likely course of events. That is because at each occasion, documentation was signed by Mr 
S (and in 2016, Mrs S) relating to the applications and advice. And medical information was 
sent to the relevant insurers. I dont think that this took place without the adviser obtaining 
details from Mr and Mrs S. They were sent copies of their answers to check and review. 
I know Mr S has told FM that he felt its adviser omitted information from the application 
regarding his family medical history; he has had to since correct this with the insurer. But FM 
has supplied records to show Mr and Mrs were sent the information given on their 
applications and they signed paperwork on 14 July 2016 confirming as such. I accept that 
there has been an omission on the documentation and I can see how this would naturally be 
of great concern to Mr and Mrs S. But Ive not seen any objective evidence which would lead 
me to conclude that FMs adviser made an error, such that I can find it responsible for the 
amendment Mr S had to make thereafter.   
My final decision
Though I know Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about the matter, I cannot uphold the complaint. I 
am not persuaded on the evidence Ive seen that the adviser failed to correctly record 
accurate health information; nor am I persuaded that he compelled Mr S into taking out new 
policies following his recommendations in 2012, 2014 and 2016. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman