DRN-4112948
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lent him an unsecured loan when it shouldnt 
have.
What happened
Barclays lent Mr G a loan. When Mr G complained to Barclays it didnt uphold his complaint 
and so he referred. By the time we asked Barclays for its file on Mr Gs complaint, it had 
reconsidered its position and decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint, making him an offer to 
remove the interest on his loan and remove information about the loan from his credit file. 
Our adjudicator thought the offer was fair and in line with what this service would 
recommend.
Mr G didnt accept the offer and said Barclays has caused him harm, so as a gesture of 
goodwill, Barclays should write off the outstanding balance on the debt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts it lent when it shouldnt have lent to Mr G and so the only issue still in 
dispute is how Barclays should put things right for Mr G.
When this service finds that a business has lent when it shouldnt have, our approach to 
redress is to tell the business to remove interest, fees and charges  so that the consumer 
only repays the capital amount they borrowed. We also tell the business to amend the 
consumers credit file to remove adverse information about the loan.
In this case, Barclays has offered to remove interest so that Mr G only repays the capital 
which he was lent, it has also offered to remove the loan from Mr Gs credit file. In the 
circumstances, Barclays has offered to put things right for Mr G in line with what this 
services approach.
While I understand Mr G wants the capital written off, I havent anything that persuades me 
to depart from our usual approach here. As I think Barclays has made a fair offer, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything further.
Putting things right
Barclays should make good its offer to remove the interest, fees and charges added to the 
loan and remove information about the loan from Mr Gs credit file. It should also agree a 
suitable repayment plan with Mr C for the outstanding capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman