DRN-3104369
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) did not reduce the 
cost of her FlexPlus bank account when the pandemic struck in 2020.
Ms G says that Nationwide shouldve offered a discount on the monthly fee she was paying 
for her account, on the basis that she was unable to benefit from the products it provided.
Ms G has also complained about how long Nationwide took to deal with her complaint.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly in this matter. Ms G disagreed and so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms G feels that Nationwide shouldve offered to reduce the monthly fee for 
the FlexPlus account on the grounds that she was unable to use the benefits it provided, 
because of the restrictions imposed as a result of the pandemic.
The FlexPlus that Ms G has complained about is sold as a package. Because of this, 
account holders are unable to pick and choose what it comes with. That also means it 
comes at a fixed price too - regardless of how many of the benefits the account holder is 
able to make use of. Therefore, if account holders feel that the combination of benefits no 
longer provides good value for money, it is up to them to cancel it.
In this case, Ms G mayve felt (quite understandably) that the FlexPlus account was poor 
value for money, during the pandemic. And I note that she has referred to other insurance 
products, whereby a discount or refund on the premium has been offered to policy holders. 
But the insurance products provided by the FlexPlus account do not operate like typical 
insurance policies. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months, they provide cover 
(and some non-insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. Therefore, because Ms G was 
not tied into keeping the FlexPlus package on her account - and as she was free to cancel it 
as soon as she felt it was no longer good value for money - I dont think Nationwide was 
being unreasonable by saying that it wont offer her a temporary discount or fee-waiver.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, I can see that Ms G has raised a number of 
points. 
Ms G says that Nationwide didnt consider the inconvenience it would cause her to 
downgrade and then upgrade again. And I do appreciate that attending a Nationwide branch 
at the time may not have been feasible. However, I understand Ms G couldve downgraded 
the account over the phone and online. So I dont think that Nationwide placed any barriers 
in Ms Gs way, if she wanted to downgrade her account, even if it was only temporarily.
Ms G has said that a member of her family had medical conditions and she wasnt sure if 
theyd be covered again, if shed downgraded the account and then upgraded again. 
However, the terms and conditions say that if an existing condition is covered by the insurer, 
it is usually only for 12 months, after which the insured will need to check again with the 
insurer to see if it will still be covered (unless the insurer confirms they will be covered for 
another 12 months upon renewal). There is also an ongoing requirement to tell the insurer 
about any changes to the medical conditions. 
Given the above, the likelihood of those conditions continuing to be covered by the insurer 
were largely the same - whether Ms G kept the FlexPlus running or downgraded it and 
upgraded back to it later and redeclared those conditions to the insurer. 
Ms G also says trips cancelled as a result of the pandemic may benefit from the cover, but 
only because these trips were booked pre pandemic and were paid for by pre pandemic 
fees. But account holders would only be covered for a cancellation claim if they still had the 
FlexPlus account running, when the trip was cancelled. So it did still continue to provide 
some cover for those who still held the FlexPlus account. And, bearing in mind the account 
included more than just travel cover, other account holders mayve wanted to continue to 
receive the benefit of the mobile phone insurance or breakdown cover too. So although Ms 
G may not have needed the cover provided by the account once the pandemic restrictions 
came into effect, others mayve.
Ms G has also said Nationwides refusal to provide her a discount or fee-waiver because of 
the pandemic amounted to age discrimination. Ms G says that if she downgraded the 
FlexPlus account and then reapplied for it later, the insured person will have to pay fees to 
access their medical records. Miss G essentially says this disproportionately affects older 
people as younger people (who present a lower risk) wont have to follow this process, 
unless they have a pre-existing medical condition. 
However, as far as I can see, anyone declaring a pre-existing medical condition to the 
insurer will be subject to the same procedures, regardless of their age. So, I cant say that 
Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms G (or her relatives relying on the 
cover). And whether the insured will actually need to provide a copy of their medical records 
(at their own cost) is a decision for the insurer to make, not Nationwide. So I cant comment 
here on whether the insurers requirement that they do this is fair, or indeed, whether Ms G 
(or her relatives) will have even needed to do this. 
I acknowledge that the FlexPlus travel insurance does require an annual premium to be paid 
to cover anyone who is 70 or older. But, like the cover for existing medical conditions, Ms 
Gs (and any relative relying on the cover) ability to be covered by the FlexPlus travel 
insurance in the future will essentially be the same - whether shed kept the FlexPlus 
account, or chose to downgrade it and then upgrade back to it later. So again I cant say that 
Nationwides refusal to discount the account fees was being unfair to Ms G or her relatives. 
Ms G has also said that downgrading and upgrading again would impact her credit file. 
However I think changing the type of account will have had a minimal impact on Ms Gs 
credit file  after all it wouldve been little more than a change in the name of the account, as 
the other account details stay the same. And if it was the case that Ms G did not want the 
account changes to be reflected on her credit file, she had the option to continue paying the 
monthly account fee to avoid this. But either way, I dont think the change in account type 
showing up on Ms Gs credit file means that Nationwide shouldve offered Ms G a discount 
or to waive the monthly fee. 
Therefore, whilst I understand why Ms G wouldve liked to have been offered a discount or a 
fee-waiver for her FlexPlus account, in the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that 
Nationwide was being unfair or unreasonable in choosing not to offer her one.Finally, I understand that Ms G was unhappy with how long it took for Nationwide to deal 
with her complaint. But from what I can see, Ms G queried her account fee in March 2020 
and Nationwide responded to her on 1 April 2020, saying she could downgrade her account 
to a fee-free account and then switch back to the FlexPlus account when she wanted the 
cover again. Nationwide then issued a final response letter to the complaint on 15 April 
2020. 
I understand that Ms G continued to contact Nationwide about this matter after April 2020, as 
she did not accept Nationwides decision on her complaint. However that was of her 
choosing, and by then Ms G was aware of Nationwides position on the matter. So I think 
that Nationwide dealt with the query and complaint in a reasonable period of time, especially 
considering the unusual and difficult circumstances at the time.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman