DRN-1699194
 
The complaint
Miss P is complaining that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her accounts without letting her 
know why, discontinued her relationship manager service and didnt add her nephew to her 
account when she asked it to.
What happened
Miss P lives abroad and held accounts with Barclays. In February 2019 Barclays wrote to 
her to say it was ring fencing its UK banking operation and as such Miss P would no longer 
have access to a relationship manager and wouldnt be able to add any other parties to her 
accounts.
Miss P says she didnt receive this letter until a month later. In the meantime shed visited 
two branches of Barclays in the UK to add her nephew to one of her accounts. Both 
branches had taken certified copies of her nephews identification but he wasnt added to the 
account.
On 30 April 2019 Barclays sent Miss P a letter saying it would be closing her accounts on 19 
July 2019. 
Miss P brought a complaint to us. Our investigator upheld Miss Ps complaint about adding 
her nephew to her account and asked Barclays to pay her £150. He didnt uphold Miss Ps 
complaint about the account closures or her relationship manager being withdrawn.
Barclays agreed to pay Miss P £150 but Miss P remains unhappy with the outcome of her 
complaint, so its now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer Barclays has made to resolve Miss Ps complaint is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss Ps accounts and Im satisfied that Barclays 
can choose to close a customers accounts as long as it gives two months notice, as it has 
here. 
I do appreciate that Miss P would like a more detailed explanation about why Barclays 
closed her accounts. But banks are entitled to end their business relationships with 
customers, just as their customers are. And theyre not obliged to give their reasons for 
doing so.
As the investigators explained, we wouldnt generally intervene when a bank has made a 
commercial decision. And I think thats whats happened here. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Barclays decision was unfair. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything differently.
Miss Ps unhappy that she was told her relationship manager would be withdrawn as part of 
a change to the banking services Barclays offered. I think this was a commercial decision 
that Barclays was entitled to make as long as it notified Miss P of the change, which it did. 
And I can see this happened around the same time as she was told her accounts would be 
closed. So I agree with the investigator that she wouldnt really have been affected by this, 
as her relationship with Barclays was ending anyway. 
Theres clearly been some confusion around Miss P asking to add her nephew to her 
account. It looks like Miss P was trying to add her nephew at around the same time that 
Barclays withdrew the facility to add any other parties to her account. However, it does seem 
likely that Miss P was given the impression her nephew could be added, because the branch 
staff took pictures of his identification. I think the branch staff should have told Miss P her 
nephew couldnt be added if that was the position at the time. So, I think its reasonable that 
Barclays should pay some compensation for this.
Putting things right
Our investigator has asked Barclays to pay £150 in recognition of the inconvenience Miss P 
experienced when trying to add her nephew to her account, and its agreed to do this. I think 
this is fair and reasonable compensation for Miss Ps inconvenience in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss P £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman