DRN-3109833
The complaint
Mr K complains about BW Legal Services Limiteds actions after it contacted him to collect a 
debt.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said:
In April 2020 BW Legal was instructed by another business to collect an outstanding debt 
relating to an insurance payment. When BW Legal contacted Mr K he explained that he 
wasnt responsible for the debt and that he hadnt lived at the address it gave for many 
years.
BW Legal said Mr K should report the matter to Action Fraud. But Action Fraud doesnt 
operate in Scotland, so Mr K referred the matter to the Police and was given a call 
reference number. Mr K forwarded the call reference and name of the officer hed spoken 
with to BW Legal but it asked for a crime reference number.
The officer Mr K reported the matter to also tried to call BW Legal in May 2020 but wasnt 
able to get through. The officer did speak with BW Legal in August 2020. BW Legal then 
passed the debt back to the owner.
Mr K has explained he wasnt notified by BW Legal that it had ceased pursuing him for the 
debt or referred the matter back to its client.
BW Legal didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint so he referred the matter to this service. Mr K said 
BW Legal had failed to follow the right process after it contacted him about the debt and 
that it shouldve been the party to contact the Police. Mr K also said BW Legal hadnt given 
suitable advice and had caused unnecessary upset by failing to tell him it was no longer 
collecting the debt. Our investigator thought BW Legal had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly 
so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr K asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BW Legal says it contacted Mr K because his details were traced to a debt. And Mr K has 
confirmed that he resided at the same address the debt was registered at, albeit a very 
long time ago. BW Legal says it was acting in line with instructions it received from its 
client and Im satisfied its decision to contact Mr K was reasonable in the circumstances.
That being said, I agree with Mr K that some of the service provided by BW Legal fell 
short. I can see he was engaged throughout the process and was somewhat caught 
between various parties providing different information. But I think BW Legal shouldve 
done more to help Mr K and keep him updated.
BW Legal referred Mr K to Action Fraud but, as hes advised, that organisation doesnt 
operate in Scotland. So Mr K referred the matter to the Police instead, in line with guidance 
it provides. But I can see a degree of confusion was caused by the information provided by 
BW Legal.
The key issue between BW Legal and Mr K appears to be the provision of a Crime 
Reference number. I can see Mr K gave BW Legal a call reference and the name of the 
officer he reported the matter to in May 2020. But BW Legal says it needed the Crime 
Reference number, not the call reference number, to move Mr Ks case forward. Mr K has 
explained he wasnt given the crime reference number.
Ive looked at the information Police Scotlands website gives concerning fraud and identity 
theft. In brief, it says people who think theyve been the victim of identity fraud should take 
various steps. It says: If you think you might be a victim of identity theft report the matter 
to the police and note the crime reference number. I dont know why Mr K wasnt given a 
crime reference number when he reported the matter. But the normal process, as advised 
by Police Scotlands website, appears to be that a crime reference number should be 
provided.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I dont agree it was unreasonable for BW Legal to ask for 
the crime reference number.
I also this its fair to note that Police Scotlands guidance says that if someone thinks 
theyve been a victim of identity theft they should report it to the Police. So I think BW 
Legal was acting reasonably when it asked Mr K to report the matter to the Police if he 
thought someone else had fraudulently taken out insurance in his name.
Its clear this situation did cause Mr K some frustration and that he wanted to draw a line 
under the matter. I agree with Mr K that it wouldve been reasonable for BW Legal to 
update him when it had received contact from the Police officer involved and passed the 
account back to the debt owner. I can see Mr K sent various follow up emails, including 
his complaint, to BW Legal and that it had lots of chances to update him about the status 
of its instruction. It was only when the complaint was passed to this service that the 
investigator notified Mr K that BW Legal was no longer pursuing him for the debt.
As Ive said above, BW Legal initially referred Mr K to the wrong organisation to report the 
matter. And whilst I dont agree it was wrong to request the Crime Reference number, I do 
think it couldve saved Mr K a reasonable level of worry and upset if it had notified him the 
account was passed back to the debt owner. Based on everything Ive seen, I think the 
fairest way to resolve this complaint 150 in recognition of the
distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments they wanted me to take into 
account before I made my final decision. Mr K didnt respond. BW Legal responded and said 
it isnt responsible if Action Fraud has changed the way it operates due to the pandemic. 
BW Legal also didnt agree it had failed to provide reasonable updates to Mr K. BW Legals 
response said that once it had returned Mr Ks account to its client it had no legitimate 
interest in contacting him. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K lives in Scotland and Action Fraud doesnt operate there. Action Frauds publicly 
available guidance confirms it operates in the other parts of the UK. I remain of the view that 
BW Legal referred Mr K to the wrong organisation when he raised concerns over fraud. 
BW Legal says it issued a final response on 3 July 2020 and that Mr K followed this up with 
a further email around 10 days later. BW Legal issued a follow up response on 23 July 2020. 
But BW Legal didnt update Mr K about the decision to return his account to the debt owner 
or that it had received contact from the Police officer acting on his case. I understand Mr K 
had an active complaint but that doesnt place a barrier on businesses providing updates. 
And I also understand BW Legal may have passed Mr Ks account back to its client, but I still 
think that was important information that wouldve saved Mr K a reasonable level of distress. 
I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. As 
a result, Im going to uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct BW Legal to pay him £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BW Legal Services Limited to pay Mr K 
£150.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman