DRN-2609817
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to him.   
What happened
Mr H borrowed three loans from ELL, the details of the loans are as follows;
Loan 
numberStart date Amount Term Repayment End date
1 16/02/2018 1,500 24 months 187.52 01/11/2018
2 01/11/2018 3,100 24 months 297.43 05/12/2019
3 05/12/2019 3,300 24 months 320.06 unknown
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, and as Mr H and his representative dont dispute the 
adjudicators findings on loan 1, I dont believe theres a continuing dispute about this loan, 
so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision on loans 2 and 3.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ELL is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr H 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Having considered all the available information on this case, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Mr H came back to ELL for loan 2 within nine months of taking out loan 1. Mr H 
wasnt half way through repaying loan 1 when he needed to borrow again from ELL. 
Loan 2 was more than double the amount of loan 1. And so, loan 2 was essentially 
increasing Mr Hs overall indebtedness.
In response to the adjudicators view, ELL said that its calculations show that Mr H 
had sufficient disposable income to afford loans 2 and 3. But the loans didnt just 
need to be affordable on a pounds and pence calculation, the lending needed to be 
sustainable for Mr H, throughout the loan term.
Between loan 1 and loan 2, Mr H had two defaults recorded on his credit file which 
ELL was aware of, the most recent default was in October 2018, the month before 
loan 2 was granted. The most recent default had a balance of around £406 and I 
think given what ELL knew about Mr H, it should have questioned why he would have 
over £200 in disposable income and still have this default recorded against him within 
such a short space of time.
By the time of loan 3, Mr H was increasing his borrowing again and the results of the 
credit file show that he had taken out a high cost loan with another lender.
I think the overall picture of Mr Hs finances suggests that he was having wider 
financial problems and even with the pounds and pence calculation on loan 3, I think 
ELL should have been reasonably aware that £112.27 for a consumer with three 
dependent children over a 24-month period was likely to cause Mr H some hardship.
In the circumstanced ELL shouldnt have been lending to Mr H as it was likely that he 
would struggle to repay over the terms of both loans 2 and 3.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Hs complaint and ELL needs to put things 
right.  
Putting things right
To put things right ELL should;
1. Add up the total Mr H paid towards both loans 2 and 3 and deduct it from the capital 
amount borrowed for both loans.
2. If this results in overpayments, these should be returned to Mr H with 8% simple 
interest from the date of the overpayments to the date of settlement*.
3. However, if theres an outstanding balance, then ELL should agree a suitable 
repayment plan with Mr H.
4. Remove any negative information about the loans 2 and 3 from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Everyday Lending must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman