DRN-1593016
The complaint
Mr A isnt happy with how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) dealt with his request for 
a refund from an online retailer. 
What happened
Mr A opened an account with an online advertising platform who Ill call C. Briefly, C markets 
itself as allowing its customers to buy online advertising campaigns from which income is 
generated each time someone clicks on the advert. 
During April 2019 Mr A paid a total of US$11,200 to C for advertising campaigns. He used 
his Halifax debit card to make these payments. C also added a bonus of US$10,000 to 
Mr As his account. But when he tried to make a withdrawal from his account in June 2019, 
Mr A told us he only received US$1,000  much less than the amount he wanted to 
withdraw. 
Mr A contacted Halifax and asked for a refund from C. As hed used his debit card to make 
the payments, Halifax put through a chargeback request. Chargeback is a dispute procedure 
operated by the relevant card scheme. As Mr As card was a Halifax Visa debit card, Visa 
was the card scheme here. 
Halifax told us that the card scheme didnt agree to the refund. The bank wrote to Mr A 
telling him this. Mr A then complained to Halifax. It didnt uphold his complaint. In short, it 
said C had defended Mr As refund request and the card scheme had found in Cs favour.
 
Mr A wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, our investigator 
said Halifax had followed the card schemes rules so she couldnt say it hadnt done its job. 
Mr A didnt accept this. Briefly, he said both Halifax and the card scheme failed to identify he 
was applying for a withdrawal of his profits not a withdrawal of bonuses. 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, I will make it clear that 
my decision deals with Mr As complaint against Halifax. It doesnt deal with how hes been 
treated by C. That doesnt fall within the remit of our service. 
Its also important to point out that the rules around chargebacks arent set out in law. 
Instead, the chargeback scheme is voluntary and is regulated by the various card schemes. 
Each card scheme has its own chargeback rules. In Mr As case, the card scheme is Visa. 
It isnt Halifaxs decision whether a chargeback request is successful. Thats down to the 
card scheme. Halifax cant overturn the card schemes decision. Nor can our service 
challenge how a card scheme runs the chargeback process. But what I can look at is if 
Halifax dealt with Mr As chargeback request fairly and reasonably. Thats what Ive done 
here. 
I can see from Halifaxs records that Mr A told them about this issue at the start of July 2019. 
I can also see that after an exchange of emails with him over several days, the bank 
requested a refund for Mr A from the card scheme. 
But when the card scheme approached C, it said Mr A wasnt entitled to a refund. C said the 
service it delivered to him was as described. It pointed out that Mr A had received two 
withdrawals  one in April 2019 and another two months later. C provided an extract of its 
terms and conditions that dealt with withdrawals. It also provided a copy of its bonus 
agreement, signed by Mr A on 17 April 2019. C said these showed Mr A wasnt eligible for a 
refund as his account hadnt reached the required turnover to allow the withdrawal he 
wanted to make. Based on this, the card scheme rejected Mr As refund request. 
I know Mr A strongly disagrees with this point. He also referred to the withdrawal section of 
Cs terms and conditions and the bonus agreement hed signed. Mr A argues that the 
withdrawal threshold he needed to achieve to be able make a withdrawal only applies to the 
withdrawal of bonuses. He told us both Halifax and the scheme provider failed to identify he 
was applying for a profits withdrawal, not a bonus withdrawal. 
As above, the actions of C dont fall within the remit of this service. Nor is it my role to decide 
whether its terms and conditions are fair  thats a decision for the courts. Also, as Ive 
already said, its up to the card scheme  not Halifax  to accept or reject a chargeback 
request. So, what Ive thought about is if Halifax acted fairly and reasonably when it 
accepted the card schemes rejection of Mr As refund request. 
Halifaxs records indicate the card scheme rejected the chargeback as Cs terms and 
conditions showed a refund wasnt due. Ive looked at Cs terms and conditions together with 
the bonus agreement signed by Mr A. The terms and conditions state all withdrawals are 
subject to the terms and conditions of any agreement signed by Mr A, including but not 
limited to the bonus agreement. 
In very general terms, the bonus agreement only allows withdrawals once a certain threshold 
has been met. Cs argument is Mr A hadnt met this threshold. Notwithstanding Mr As 
argument that he wanted to make a profits withdrawal, not a bonus withdrawal  meaning he 
felt the bonus agreement didnt apply  the card scheme accepted Cs evidence and rejected 
the chargeback. 
When Mr A disputed this outcome, Halifax gave him the opportunity to provide information to 
refute Cs position. But the evidence available to me doesnt show Mr A provided anything to 
do so. The information he seems to be relying on is Cs terms and conditions and the bonus 
agreement, which is also what C relied on. 
I can see Mr A feels these back up his position. But his interpretation of these documents is 
markedly different to Cs  and the card scheme accepted Cs interpretation. Thats a 
decision its entitled to make  and as Ive already said, our service cant challenge how a 
card scheme runs its chargeback process. 
In summary, theres nothing in the available evidence to show Halifax acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not challenging the card schemes acceptance of Cs argument. Halifax put 
through Mr As chargeback request soon after he asked for a refund. It kept him informed of the outcome of the request and allowed Mr A time to provide further information to challenge 
Cs position and the card schemes decision. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied Halifax treated Mr A fairly and reasonably when 
dealing with his chargeback request. It follows theres no basis here for me to tell it to give 
him a refund. 
I know Mr A is likely to be very disappointed by my decision. I can see hes questioned if C is 
a legitimate company. I do understand his point of view and can really appreciate the upset 
this has caused him. But that doesnt mean Halifax has done anything wrong. If Mr A wants 
to pursue his concerns about C, he may wish to seek independent advice from an 
organisation such as Citizens Advice. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020. 
John Miles
Ombudsman