DRN-3977938
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to make her aware 
that contracted-out rebates paid into her personal pension plan (PPP) after 6 April 2001 
wouldnt benefit from a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). 
The PPP at the centre of this complaint was originally provided by Equity & Law which was 
later acquired by Axa and then Aviva. For ease of reading, Ill refer to Aviva throughout this 
final decision.
What happened
A financial advisory business unconnected to Aviva advised Miss B to start a PPP in 1987 
when she was then aged 31. Details of the PPP can be summarised as follows:
It was set up to enable Miss B to contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme so that she could redirect some of her National Insurance contributions as 
rebates into her PPP  the intention was that the rebates would then be invested to 
provide benefits in addition to Miss Bs basic state pension; 
The PPP was set up so that rebates were invested in Avivas managed fund;
Aviva received rebates between November 1989 and July 2012;
Miss B didnt pay any personal contributions into the PPP; and
The PPP included a GAR that promised to pay a certain level of pension per £1,000 
of fund value based on Miss Bs age when she took benefits  the older she was, the 
higher the rate.
In response to new legislation relating to Stakeholder pension schemes, Aviva was required 
to reduce the charges applied to contributions paid into certain PPPs after 6 April 2001 
including Miss Bs PPP. This resulted in it not being able to provide both the GAR and lower 
charges to rebates paid into her PPP after that date  however, these rebates would instead 
benefit from lower charges and a higher investment allocation rate (compared to rebates 
invested before 6 April 2001). In 2001, Aviva wrote to the financial advisory business linked 
to Miss Bs PPP to inform it about the change to her plan with the expectation that it would, 
in turn, tell Miss B. Aviva didnt directly tell Miss B about the change.
During 2021, Aviva recognised that some financial advisory businesses may not have 
updated plan holders about the change to their PPP in 2001. So it set up a project to carry 
out a remediation exercise for potentially affected customers like Miss B who may not have 
previously been informed about the change to their PPP. 
Miss B was contacted as part of that remediation exercise and given a six-month window 
within which to switch all or some of her investment in her PPP from Avivas managed fund 
into its with-profits fund to secure the GAR in respect of pre-6 April 2001 rebates and a 
Guaranteed Growth Rate of 4% per year on the entire PPP fund value from the date of the 
switch until her retirement date. It set out the conditions attached to that offer which Miss B 
accepted by switching the value of her PPP into its with-profits fund on 24 August 2021.
Miss Bs complaint
Following the remediation exercise, Miss B was upset to discover that the GAR only applied 
to rebates paid into her PPP before 6 April 2001. She said that neither the financial advisory 
business that advised her to start the PPP nor Aviva had made her aware about the change 
at the time and she believed she had suffered a financial loss as a result. 
She complained to both the financial advisory business that advised her to start the PPP and 
to Aviva. To put things right, she wanted Aviva to apply the GAR to the entire value of her 
PPP and not just the element attributable to rebates paid into it before 6 April 2001.
Avivas response to this complaint
Aviva didnt uphold this complaint. It confirmed that the GAR still applied to rebates paid into 
Miss Bs PPP before 6 April 2001. But that it couldnt apply the GAR to rebates paid into her 
PPP after that date due to the impact of the legislation relating to Stakeholder pension 
schemes. However, these rebates would instead benefit from lower charges and a higher 
investment allocation rate (compared to rebates invested before 6 April 2001)  it said it took 
these actions to counter the loss of the GAR on future rebates. 
It noted that its records showed it had written to the financial advisory business linked to 
Miss Bs PPP to inform it about the change to her PPP but couldnt locate a copy of the 
actual letter sent  and so it wasnt sure if she had been told about the change. It explained 
this was the reason why it carried out the remediation exercise in 2021, the outcome of 
which meant Miss B hadnt suffered a financial loss. So it didnt think it needed to take any 
further action.
Our investigators assessment of this complaint
Miss B didnt accept Avivas response to this complaint because she wanted the GAR to 
apply to the entire value of her PPP and so referred the matter to this Service. Our 
investigator didnt think Aviva needed to take any further action. He explained to Miss B that 
he was satisfied the action taken by Aviva in 2001 in response to the legislation relating to 
Stakeholder pension schemes was reasonable and that, in any event, she hadnt suffered a 
financial loss because of the remedial action it had taken in 2021.
Miss B didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided additional comments in 
response. She said that she had only recently become aware of the change to her plan in 
2001. And that had she been made aware at the time she couldve taken steps to ensure her 
funds were invested appropriately to secure the best outcome for retirement. But because 
she was only recently informed, she had limited opportunity to make any meaningful 
changes before she takes benefits from the PPP.
She also thought this Service should further investigate the actions of the financial advisory 
business that advised her to start the PPP since she believed it too couldve done more to 
warn her about the change in 2001.
Our investigator considered the additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me, an 
ombudsman, to review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
Miss Bs PPP is still in force and no benefits have been taken. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Miss B and Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
This Service
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this Service. This Service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this Service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, into the position 
they wouldve been in had the problem not occurred.
Scope of this final decision 
In response to our investigators view, Miss B said she thought this Service should further 
investigate the actions of the financial advisory business that advised her to start the PPP in 
1987 since she believed it couldve done more to warn her about the change to her PPP in 
2001. To be clear, this complaint is about Aviva. Therefore, under this financial decision, I 
can only consider the acts and/or omissions of Aviva in its dealings with Miss B. So I wont 
be commenting on the actions of the financial advisory business.
In any event, I understand that Miss B has made a separate complaint about the financial 
advisory business which is currently being investigated by this Service under a different 
reference.
My findings
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Miss B and Aviva. So if I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe it affects what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the 
evidence afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for 
these reasons:
I understand the reasons why Aviva made changes to Miss Bs PPP in 2001. It said 
that at the time it informed the financial advisory business linked to Miss Bs PPP 
about the change with the expectation that it would, in turn, tell Miss B. But it couldnt 
locate a copy of the actual letter it sent to the financial advisory business. Thats 
unfortunate. Aviva acknowledged that it didnt directly tell Miss B in 2001 about the 
change. And so it carried out a remediation exercise in 2021. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think the outcome of that exercise was fair and reasonable. It enabled Miss B 
to secure the GAR in respect of pre-6 April 2001 rebates and a Guaranteed Growth 
Rate of 4% per year on the entire PPP fund value from the date of the switch until her 
retirement date. It set out the conditions attached to that offer which Miss B accepted 
by switching the value of her PPP into its with-profits fund on 24 August 2021. So I 
dont think Aviva needs to take any further action in this regard.I think its completely understandable that Miss B was shocked and upset to only 
recently discover that the GAR wouldnt apply to rebates paid into her PPP after                 
6 April 2001. I can see why she feels let down because Aviva didnt directly tell her 
about the change in 2001. She said that had she been made aware at that time, she 
wouldve taken steps to ensure her funds were invested appropriately to secure the 
best outcome for retirement. Notwithstanding the point Ive made above that I think 
shes received a fair outcome under the remediation exercise, Ive thought about 
what steps Miss B might have taken. The starting point is to accept that Aviva 
couldnt apply the GAR to rebates paid into her PPP after 6 April 2001 for the 
reasons explained. So, had she been informed about the change in 2001, I think she 
couldve taken any of the following options:
1. Keep her PPP as it was and leave it invested in Avivas managed fund; or
2. Keep her PPP but switch all or some of underlying fund from Avivas 
managed fund into different Aviva fund(s); or
3. Keep her PPP with Aviva and do (1) or (2) above but start a new PPP with a 
different provider solely to accept rebates paid after 6 April 2001 so that they 
could be invested differently but accepting that a GAR wouldnt apply to these 
rebates (because no providers were offering GARs on new contracts at that 
time); or
4. Transfer the entire value of her PPP to a different provider while accepting the 
loss of the GAR on pre-6 April 2001 rebates but with the aim of achieving a 
better, overall outcome.
Options 1 to 3 wouldve enabled Miss B to benefit from the GAR in respect of rebates 
paid into her PPP before 6 April 2001 but not after that date. Option 4 wouldve led to 
the total loss of the GAR. I dont think Miss B wouldve chosen Option 4 given her 
strength of feeling about benefitting from the GAR. So that only leaves Options 1 to 3 
which wouldve required her to make a decision about how to invest post-6 April 2001 
rebates. Ive considered which Option I think Miss B would most likely have chosen.
I think its important to highlight that Miss Bs PPP comprised contracted-out rebates 
only. She didnt pay any personal contributions into it. When the PPP started in 1987 
it was set up so that the rebates were invested in Avivas managed fund. Managed 
funds typically comprise a mix of different asset classes including cash, bonds, 
property and equities in different weightings to provide a balanced risk to investment, 
which, in Miss Bs case, was likely to be appropriate given her age and expected 
investment time horizon. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me it was 
inappropriate for Miss B to invest in Avivas managed fund.
The PPP remained invested in that same managed fund until Miss B switched the 
value of it into Avivas with-profits fund on 24 August 2021 as part of the remediation 
exercise. So Miss B had left it invested in the same fund for over 30 years despite 
receiving regular benefit statements from Aviva that showed the ongoing 
performance. The fact she left it invested in the same fund suggests to me that she 
was content with the performance. She only switched funds because of the 
remediation exercise. Its clear that she didnt have a history of switching funds, trying 
to achieve a different investment return. So, overall, I think its fair to say that had she 
been informed in 2001 about the change to her PPP, she wouldve done nothing and left things as they were i.e. Option 1  which is exactly what happened. On balance, 
Im not persuaded Miss B wouldve made any other decision.
In conclusion, I think Miss B is currently in the same financial position she wouldve 
been in had she been told in 2001 about the change to her PPP. Therefore, I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to direct Aviva 
to pay compensation to Miss B  or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman