DRN-1948753
The complaint
Mr M complains about the amount of redress he was paid following The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds (Royal London) admission in 2000, that he was given 
unsuitable advice to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits into a 
personal pension. He says its now clear that the redress he was paid doesnt cover the 
shortfall hes experienced and wants Royal London to carry out a recalculation.
What happened
Mr M joined the Boots OPS in 1976 and left in 1988. In 1990 he met with an adviser from 
United Friendly Assurance, now part of Royal London (who Ill refer to throughout this 
decision) and agreed to transfer the OPS benefits into two personal pensions  for protected 
and non-protected rights benefits.
In 1999 Royal London wrote to Mr M inviting him to have the suitability of the transfer advice 
reviewed, following the earlier industry wide pensions review. Mr M accepted the invitation 
in February 1999. Subsequently in September 2000 Royal London wrote to Mr M again, 
explaining that it had completed its review. It said that he would have been better off 
remaining in the OPS. It confirmed it had carried out a calculation, in line with regulators 
guidelines, and offered to pay £16,550.47 across the two plans to make up for any shortfall 
in benefits.  Mr M signed to accept the offer on 16 September 2000.
One of the pensions was paid to Mr M in 2003 and the other was transferred to another 
provider in 2015.
In September 2019 Mr M, using a representative, complained about the original advice. The 
representative said Mr M shouldnt have been exposed to the risks of giving up valuable 
income guarantees in favour of an investment linked pension plan. It said if he had been 
advised of the risks he wouldnt have agreed to transfer  so the advice was unsuitable.
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out a review of the transfer 
advice in 2000 and determined that it had been unsuitable. It made an offer of redress to 
Mr M, which he accepted in full and final settlement. It thought that, if Mr M was unhappy 
with that outcome, he should have complained within three years  so it concluded that hed 
brought his complaint outside of the time limits allowed. 
But Mr M wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his compliant to us. He said hed 
accepted the offer from Royal London at the time because he believed it put things right. 
But he now realised that wasnt fair and he is now significantly worse off than he would have 
been if he hadnt transferred. He thought he was due more compensation to put him as close 
to the position he ought to be in now without the transfer.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He said that the complaint wasnt out of time 
and could be considered  which Royal London accepted. 
But he said the pensions review had been intended as a one-off exercise to draw a line 
under the pension mis selling that had occurred. And he said that, while it was clear that the 
assumptions that had been used previously hadnt matched up to expectations, he thought 
Royal London had carried out the calculation in line with what was expected of them and 
shouldnt have to redo the calculation. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and made the following points about the original 
calculation:
Royal London had used a zero assumption for the policy fee which wasnt correct as 
it wouldnt have provided the plan for nothing. He thought this overstated the value of 
the personal pension and reduced the redress.
The redress was paid into the plans which were invested into property funds. It didnt 
think it was fair to have invested the money in such a risky asset class.
It was clear Royal London hadnt reviewed the advice in line with the regulatory 
standards that were laid down and it should be required to carry out the calculation 
according to more recent guidance.
As no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive some sympathy for Mr Ms position as he now finds himself with a smaller pension than 
he would have got if he hadnt transferred his deferred OPS benefits. But I agree with the 
investigator that Royal London hasnt done anything wrong here  which I know will come as 
a disappointment to Mr M  so Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Royal London gave Mr M unsuitable advice to transfer his OPS 
benefits into a personal pension. But Mr M thinks the compensation he received wasnt 
enough to make up for the shortfall hes suffered. He says that its only now that hes 
become aware of how much worse off he is, and he says he accepted Royal Londons offer 
in 2000 because he trusted that its actions had put things right for good. 
The aim of the Pensions Review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, which recognised the 
impracticalities of waiting until someone retired  which might not be for 15-20 years or so in 
Mr Ms case, before assessing any loss. The aim of the compensation calculation was to 
work out what would be enough to increase the value of his personal pension plan to provide 
the same level of benefits as his OPS would have provided. 
And the calculations had to be based on a number of assumptions of what might happen 
between then and the retirement date. The regulator set out how the calculation needed to 
be run, and the assumptions that businesses had to use to assess any loss. Unfortunately, 
with investment returns reducing and annuity rates falling, the assumptions that were used 
have meant that the benefits provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably 
have been anticipated. 
So, although the value of Mr Ms personal pension was increased with the aim of matching 
the benefits payable from the occupational scheme, subsequent economic events have 
meant this wont now happen. 
But thats not Royal Londons fault as it did the calculation based on what guidelines it was 
given by the regulator at the time. Any additional shortfall that might have occurred after the 
review took place is with the benefit of hindsight and changing economic factors, which 
werent know at the time of the calculation. Royal London was required to carry out internal quality assurance checks to ensure that the 
calculations were correct and in line with the guidance. It would also have been subject to 
regular inspections from the regulator to ensure that the review had been carried out in line 
with the guidance. From what Ive seen Royal London carried out the exercise correctly and 
paid the appropriate redress amount. Ive looked carefully at calculation and the 
accompanying inputted information and Ive seen no evidence to show it wasnt carried out 
as it should have been. Indeed, I note Royal London did the calculation twice and paid Mr M 
the higher amount of redress from the two calculations.
Mr Ms representative has suggested that Royal London didnt follow the guidance in place 
at the time. He said Royal London had assumed there was no policy fee within its calculation 
 which he didnt think was likely in the circumstances and may have reduced the redress 
payable. He also thought it was wrong for Royal London to have paid the redress into, what 
he said were unsuitable funds, within Mr Ms personal pension. But I havent seen any 
evidence to support his points. Royal London has confirmed that the charges on Mr Ms 
policy were a bid offer spread, a reduced allocation rate and an annual management charge. 
So, it would seem reasonable that no policy fee did exist. And I can see that the other 
charges were input into the calculation. 
Theres also no suggestion in the guidance that Royal London should have advised Mr M 
about what funds he might want the redress paid into. It was only obliged to pay the redress 
into his plan and if Mr M wanted to reconsider the composition of his funds at that time, I 
would have expected him to discuss the matter with Royal London as a general review of his 
plan. Royal Londons offer letter from 2000 gave Mr M the chance to take independent 
advice regarding its offer and gave details of its complaints process if he wasnt happy with 
the outcome. I would have expected Mr M to have taken those opportunities if he wanted to 
review the existing plan at that time.
I do understand why Mr M is unhappy with the Pensions Review methodology and therefore 
feels Royal Londons calculation (and offer of compensation) was perhaps incomplete. But 
this was the then regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And its 
not something this service can now challenge or ignore. I think Royal Londons letter from 
2000 confirmed the one off nature of the exercise when it stated as explained above, this 
additional sum has been calculated using the guidance which has been set out by the PIA 
and this offer conforms with our understanding of their requirements. This requires that we 
offer you redress now rather than waiting until you actually retire to compare the amount of 
benefits from the personal pension and the scheme. When you finally retire the shortfall may 
be higher or lower than that which has been assumed for the purpose of these calculations. 
As Ive already said I have some sympathy with Mr Ms position, but as Ive explained the 
Pensions Review was an industry wide standardised process and I think Royal London 
complied with this. Its offer was accepted by Mr M in 2000 in a letter which said I confirm 
that this settlement shall constitute full and final settlement for any claim whatsoever
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the calculation wasnt carried out according to the 
regulators guidance at the time and I dont think it would be fair to ask Royal London to 
revisit the calculation it undertook. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman