DRN-2843889
The complaint
Ms C complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) have unfairly 
applied late payment markers and charges to her Store Card account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms Cs statement in January 2021 confirmed a closing balance of around £42. A 
payment for the same amount had been made by Ms C the day before the statement 
was issued
Argos confirmed this payment had been received in Ms Cs February statement, but 
in March 2021 wrote to her to inform her the payment had been reversed
Ms C says she contacted her bank and received information confirming the payment 
hadnt been reversed. Ms C has provided copies of her bank statements from March 
2021. I cant see it shows any reversal of the payment in, or around, the time Argos 
said they reversed it
Argos said they received a chargeback request from Ms Cs bank. Although I can see 
from screenshots provided by Argos a chargeback was processed, they havent 
provided anything to show Ms Cs bank requested it. So, Im not persuaded the 
chargeback was requested by the bank 
Having reviewed everything, I think Argos unreasonably applied the charges and late 
payment marker to Ms Cs account
I want to assure Ms C I have thought carefully about whats shes said about how the 
matter impacted her, and I can see she is mindful about maintaining good credit 
rating. Taking everything into consideration, I think Argos should pay Ms C £50 
compensation as this fairly reflects the inconvenience, she has been caused 
Putting things right
To put matters right Argos should:
Refund late payment fees associated with the payments
Remove any associated late payment markers from Ms Cs credit file
Pay Ms C £50 compensation
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint.
To put things right, Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) should do 
as Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman