DRN-4448914
The complaint
Mrs F complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim she made on her
commercial landlord insurance policy for subsidence.
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mrs F, a landlord, had a commercial landlord insurance policy which was
underwritten by UKI. The policy started in September 2019.
In July 2022, she had her house valued by an estate agent  having noticed cracks in
the property, the agent highlighted a potential subsidence issue.
Mrs F made a claim on her policy. UKI agreed the damage had been caused by
subsidence, but said the claim wasnt covered as the damage pre-dated the start of
the policy. It said the significant distortion of the property evidenced the damage
being a long-standing problem.
In declining the claim, UKI said the: the damage has been caused by consolidation
subsidence, given the underlying soil is storm gravel beach deposits overlying lower
greensand, the property lies in flood zone 3, and the fact the general tendency of the
whole property to tilt towards the front is a longstanding issue.
It added that Mrs Fs tenant had confirmed the cracking to the party wall and between
the door and window opening separating the lounge and entrance porch were
present when she moved in three years prior.
Mrs F disagreed. She said the damage wasnt commented on during a mid-term
tenancy review in February 2020 and so, it was reasonable to conclude it had
occurred in the last three years. She added that subsidence hadnt been identified
when shed made a claim in November 2020 for cracks in the propertys front porch 
so questioned how UKI could say the damage commenced before the policy started.
In respect of the 2020 claim, UKI said the type of damage was caused by minor
differential movement between the porch and main house [and] thermal and normal
wear and tear  which wasnt covered by the policy terms.
It explained that claim had been dealt with by video call and so, the extent of the
damage to the property hadnt been recorded. Because UKI didnt cover this claim,
Mrs F arranged for her own contractor to carry out repairs to the porch.
With regards to the current claim - in August 2022 Mrs F appointed her own engineer
to survey the damage. The engineer said: there has been slight settlement of the
porch causing some pulling on the masonry, via the rafters, above the tray, but this is
very slight. The engineer said: it is concluded that [as there is no rainwater
downpipe close to the affected part of the property] that a leaking main water pipe
may be the cause of the clear foundation movement.
A month later, Mrs F appointed a structural engineer who dug boreholes and trial pits
as part of their investigations. The engineer said the composition of the soil at the
front and rear differed, and that the front subsoil was vulnerable to seasonal
shrinking and swelling due to the moisture content variations, which can result in
foundation movement.
The engineer observed in respect of the guttering: The existing failed condition and
current low point will cause the gutters to leak on the party wall line [] therefore
causing moisture to be introduced to the subsoil under. This will lead to softening of
the clay soils and therefore settlement of the front elevation and party wall.
Having considered both reports, UKI said:
oMrs Fs tenants had confirmed the cracks were present when they moved into
the property in September 2019.
oDue to the substantial distortions in the property and its tendency to tilt
towards the front, the subsidence issues had commenced many years ago,
and certainly not since 2019.
oIt agreed the recent cracking to the front porch likely occurred in the last three
years but said the first engineer hadnt looked at the evidence of movement to
the entire property, and so, couldnt reasonably say the subsidence damage
wasnt more than three years old.
Unhappy with UKIs position, Mrs F brought a complaint to this Service. An
Investigator considered it and upheld it as he thought UKI hadnt shown the damage 
to the property occurred before the start of the policy. UKI disagreed and so, the 
complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
Following the view, Mrs F told this Service that shes since sold the property.
Having reviewing things, I issued a provisional decision not upholding the complaint - 
Ive included an extract below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence, subject to a number of terms and
conditions.
UKI has sought to rely on a policy term which says damage which commenced prior
to the From date (as stated in the Schedule) is excluded.
I understand UKI considers the damage to have been caused by consolidation
subsidence  which happens over a long period of time. It says this is supported by 
the composition of the soil at the front of the property  which is formed of stormgravel beach deposits overlying lower greensand  and the significant distortion to
the property.
The parties dont dispute the composition of the soil, nor that it varies under the
footprint of the house. UKIs expert engineer said the type of soil at the front of the
property is commonly associated with consolidation subsidence. And given the
experts extensive experience in their field of work, Im satisfied it was reasonable for
UKI to rely on it to decline the claim. Thats unless theres other persuasive expert
evidence which challenges these findings.
So, Ive considered Mrs Fs engineers findings. Both engineers point to a water leak
being the potential cause of the subsidence. One engineer suggested the omission of
a rainwater pipe meant there may have been a leak in the mains water supply pipe 
with water affecting the subsoils composition. The other has said the construction of
the guttering may have caused water to access the subsoil, change its structure and
make the property vulnerable to movement
So, Ive considered whether the evidence provided by the engineers shows a water
leak was the sole or primary cause of the damage, and if it were, whether the
damage the leak is said to have caused commenced after the policy started. Having
done so, Im not persuaded it does and Ill explain why.
Neither engineer says with certainty that a leak caused Mrs Fs property to move 
both say it is a possibility. If for example, there was evidence to show the water leak
was an intervening act which destabilised a formerly stable property, I might be
inclined to say UKI should accept the claim. But the engineers evidence doesnt
show this. Theres also no commentary as to how long it would take a leak - of the
nature suggested - to penetrate the subsoil, change its composition and ultimately,
destabilise the property.
The engineers focus also appears to be on the front porch  with both saying the
downward movement of the porch caused settlement and for the porch to move away
from the main property  adding this occurred in the last three years. But UKI doesnt
dispute this, though has said that ultimately, the porch also moved because of long
standing, consolidation subsidence which hadnt been addressed.
As it seems the entire property has been affected by movement, Im not persuaded
Mrs Fs engineers findings  namely that settlement affected the front porch area
and that a potential water leak caused subsidence  persuasively challenges UKIs
expert that the composition of the subsoil at the front of the property was the most
likely cause  and that as consolidation subsidence happens over many years, it
commenced before the policy was taken out.
So, whilst its possible there was a water leak, Im not persuaded Mrs F has shown
this was the primary cause of the damage and importantly, that it commenced after
the policy was taken out. And I therefore, consider it was reasonable for UKI to rely
on the exclusion that the damage commenced before the policy started to decline the
claim.
2020 claim
UKI declined this claim on the basis the damage was caused by normal thermal
movement. But even if I accepted UKI had declined this claim on the wrong basis because the property was in fact subsiding  its shown the damage commenced 
before the policy started, and so the outcome of the claim  it being declined - would
have remained the same. And so, it doesnt need to take any action in respect of this
claim.
Because the damage in respect of both claims commenced before the policy was
taken out, Mrs F is entitled to contact her previous insurer about the matter.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided further evidence or commentary for me to consider, and so, for the 
same reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman