DRN-4041447
The complaint
A company, G, has complained that Sage Financial Management Limited moved its funds
out of more volatile assets and into cash in March 2020 without discussing it properly with
the directors first. The directors question the timing of the switch and why, once in cash, the
funds were not reinvested into the market sooner  as they were left out of the market for too
long.
They also compare this situation with what happened to their personal investments such as
pensions, which were not switched by the adviser  and wonder, as an alternative, whether
those should have been switched into cash at any point as well.
After the advisory relationship broke down, the directors say Sage stopped advising the
directors on their company and personal investments, but continued to collect fees. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
What happened
My understanding is that the directors had an existing relationship with their adviser at Sage
for about 20 years. Im providing the following information for background only, as its not 
part of the complaint Im considering (until I later note otherwise):
In May 2017 the adviser had recommended £200,000 of Gs funds (from £500,000 in bank 
accounts) be transferred into a General Investment Account with Aviva, to be invested in 
open-ended investment companies (OEICs). Sages suitability report said that G wished to 
invest for a minimum five year term but wanted the freedom to call upon this money should 
the company require it. One-third of the funds was invested into each of: the Baillie Gifford 
Managed fund (a fund with about 80% shares), Legal & General Property and Legal & 
General Multi Index 4 (a fund rated at 4 on a scale from 1-10).
The companys attitude to risk was stated to be 7 (highest medium) on a scale from 1 to
10. This was defined as You probably concentrate on getting higher returns on your
investments. However, you are still probably concerned about too many rises and falls and,
as a result, the possibility of losing money.
Gs finances were revisited in February 2018. There was now £770,000 in Gs bank 
accounts, so another £500,000 was moved onto the Aviva platform, again with one-third in 
each of: HSBC Global Strategy Dynamic Portfolio (a fund with up to 80% shares), Legal & 
General Property and BMO Universal MAP Balanced Fund (a fund with nearer 50% shares). 
Ive used the current asset allocation of all the funds mentioned above as a guide.
In December 2019 the adviser commented on the possibility of achieving higher returns by
investing in greater risk funds including Witan Trust. In response, the directors asked
we trust you will invest a proportionate amount of funds and monitor these regularly and
act on any adversities to minimise potential losses with the objective of significantly bettering
the returns. Sage subsequently said it would move 30% of the funds equally into the Witan 
& Legal & General Multi Asset 7 funds for a more aggressive approach. It appears that the 
former switch may not have taken place (for Gs funds) but the latter did.
From December 2019 onwards theres evidence of Gs directors asking to reduce the overall
fees they were paying (Sage and Avivas). One of the plans was already on a special deal
with Aviva of a 0.18% annual management charge (AMC). Aviva confirmed in a message,
Based on both clients topping up their ISAs we can reduce all plans down to 0.14% AMC,
and the adviser was then successful in getting a slight further reduction to 0.13%.
However the directors werent happy with this reduction and asked if Sage would reduce its
own 0.5%pa fee. Sage said this was a significant discount from the 1% it normally
charged for ongoing service and was already in view of the directors being close friends. 
However Ive seen evidence that it did then agree to reduce this fee to 0.38%.
In late February 2020, global stock markets begin a sharp decline and prompted the events 
occurring to Gs investments which Im considering in this complaint. The directors note that  
Gs investments were worth £791,000 and held on the same platform as personal 
investments (such as pensions). In a phone call with one of the directors on 9 March 2020 
the adviser appears to have booked a meeting for 13 March. His note of the call reads:
The impact of the covid pandemic was also discussed with the clients and it was mutually agreed 
the ISA and Pensions would remain invested as these are considered long term investments.
The company investment would be switched to cash as a result as this was a medium term 
investments [sic] and it is unclear how the market will react to the ongoing concerns
regarding the covid pandemic.
The sale to cash of Gs investments took place over 9-10 March, and the directors disagree
that they were consulted on or authorised this. They say the adviser announced the switch
had already been made in the 13 March meeting and that it had been done to protect the 
company's money from the falls in the stock market due to the Covid pandemic.
Sage hasnt produced any notes of the 13 March meeting, however it has produced a letter
dated that day during the course of the complaint. Ill return to the directors concerns about
the authenticity of this letter later in my decision. It reads:
With the downturn in the market following the covid pandemic and your concerns about the fall in 
the value of investments it was agreed to switch your company money in cash
You should note that, whilst the transactions are pending or held in cash, there could be
movements within the stock-market; that is to say that the stock-market could rise or fall in value. If 
the market rises in value whilst the funds are held in you could be financially disadvantaged insofar 
[sic]. Conversely, if the market continues to fall amidst the covid pandemic, you could be financially 
advantaged insofar as the cost of holding your money in cash.
It is impossible to forecast the market and know when it is best to reinvest the money held in cash. 
We will monitor the markets to establish a suitable period to gradually drip feed the cash into the 
market.
The letter also explains the different approach being taken for the directors personal
investments in pensions and ISAs: The ISA and pension investments are long term 
investments and to be held until retirement. Whereas the company money is a medium-term 
investments [sic] and with the continued volatility of the stock market this investment has 
been placed in cash.
The directors say they protested verbally at the action Sage had already taken at the 13 
March meeting and continued to do so, but as it had already been taken they went with the
advisers plan of reinvesting. There does appear to be evidence of ongoing discussions,
albeit not quite of the character that the directors suggest (albeit in writing) . Later that month 
Sage reminded them, We discussed then investing the company's parked cash back into 
the market as it recovers and drip feeding this to balance out the risk and getting the moniesworking for us again.
By late March 2020 there had been an upward correction in the markets which (whilst
remaining volatile) continued on a slow upward trend in the following months. By 14 May,
one of the directors had become concerned at why Sage had still not reinvested G's cash
back into the recovering market. Theyve noted that the adviser must have been aware of
this, because the following day he noted one of the directors pension contributions made in
April (and invested into the markets, contrary to what happened with Gs funds) did well.
On 29 May Sage sought the directors agreement to drip feed Gs cash. They responded:
Yes, please start to drip feed company money back in the market and we can talk to you
about anything else thereafter. The amounts Sage switched  for which the directors say
they werent consulted on fund choices  were:
29 May 2020 £250,000 moved back into market
21 June 2020 £100,000  
18 July 2020 £100,000  
The directors met Sage on 16 July. Following this on 29 July it emailed them mentioning a
possible second wave of Covid. The value of Gs investments was noted as £749,810 which
the adviser thought was a positive increase when measured over the last 12 months.
The directors asked for more details of the charges. On 12 August the adviser gave them a 
breakdown of all charges in percentages which he hoped would suffice. The directors 
werent happy and sought a breakdown of all monetary charges from Sage and Aviva. The 
documents produced by Aviva dont distinguish the adviser, product and fund charges in the 
most helpful way for the purpose G needed them. On 12 September 2020 the value of the 
companys investments was noted as £758,000; £275,000 of which remained in cash.
On 14 September the adviser emailed the directors referring back to the 16 July meeting
(this is the earliest comment Ive seen about the July meeting). He summarised: When
making the decision to move some of the money to cash a broad approach was taken
considering your whole investment portfolio as opposed to one plan in isolation.
The adviser reiterated that the directors and G had seen overall growth in their investments
since commencement. He also addressed the dispute about charges, saying that Sage
applied no initial charges and he didnt feel the directors had appreciated the discounted
ongoing fee. He decided the relationship had broken down and decided to break the ongoing 
agreement on 14 September, saying:
Please find attached our formal letter of disengagement. I suggest you seek advice from
another Independent Financial Adviser with immediate effect. (Regional Manager) at Aviva
will assist you in the interim; his email address is 
I will also write to Aviva separately informing them we will no longer be acting as your
advisers and to stop all ongoing adviser charges immediately.
The directors thought this was an overreaction as they were only asking for an explanation,
but Sage was unwilling to act further now that this letter had already been sent. They
subsequently sought to deal with Aviva directly, and then complained to Sage in April 2021.
The complaint Im dealing with here about Gs investments  which Ive summarised above 
highlights that the adviser sold Gs funds to cash after the markets had already fallen by
about 20%, and then delayed beginning the reinvestment until markets had risen again by
about 20%; meaning they lost out both times. They feel the adviser has acted in the manner
of a novice investor. They think his monitoring of the markets was absent, and the extent ofthese falls or rises wasnt communicated to them before action was taken. In addition to
highlighting the contrast with their pensions and ISAs remaining invested, the directors also
question why safer funds (e.g. bonds or gilts) werent chosen in preference to cash.
Sage appointed a compliance expert from another firm to respond to all the issues on
15 June 2021. The points relevant to the complaint Im considering here were:
The directors had previously self-invested before Sage advised them and werent 
novice investors. They had suffered losses and preferred Sage to take on the 
management of their funds.
They clearly had input into the investment funds that were to be used and could have 
overridden Sages advice if they had strongly opposing views.
Sages file notes record that the situation with Gs funds was discussed at a meeting 
on 16 March 2020 [sic], and the directors agreed to put the Gs funds into cash.
This was a different decision to their other investments, because the company may 
need the funds in five years.
Although the Covid pandemic was an unprecedented situation, Sages adviser 
attempted as best he could to drip feed funds back into the market when there looked 
to be an  improvement, and to act in Gs best interests. However, he required their 
consent each time to move funds.
Sage was well within its rights to terminate the ongoing advice arrangement where 
the relationship had broken down, or as here where the directors were seeking more 
intensive support at lower fees, which was a basis Sage couldnt accept.
Sage also gave notice of its intention to terminate in line with the client agreement, 
and was entitled to collect charges and only complete pending transactions.
However, it would refund a sum of £200 for the 16 days Sage held agency on the 
Aviva platform but was not acting for them.
When the complaint reached one of our investigators, Gs directors alleged on 5 August
2022 that the switching into cash amounted to the disposal of company assets, could attract
a Capital Gains tax liability and may not comply with Companies House regulations. They
expected that they were going to incur further costs completing Gs tax returns.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, placing some weight on the 13 March 2020 
letter which had not been produced or referred to in Sages final response. Gs directors 
didnt agree with the investigator and were upset that they hadnt been given an opportunity 
to comment on this letter, which they consider is a fabrication. They added:
- The director who likely took the call does not understand financial information. In 
any event, the directors would have been expected to confer afterwards and refer to 
documents before making such a vital decision, and provide signed consent to Sage.
- The letters reference to drip feeding back into the market was agreed at the time, but 
only because they had no other option.
- They had never decided Gs investments were medium term. The adviser was aware 
that only one director planned to retire in January 2022, making some of his personal 
investments of an even shorter term.
- Other advisers have told them that switching to cash should have been considered 
as a last rather than a first resort.
My Provisional Decision of 2 March 2023
I commented on the nature of the terms of business between Sage and G:Sages standard charges were a 3% initial charge on lump sum investments (which it 
didnt take in this case) and 1%pa for ongoing review services. The latter was 
described as being to review your financial situation annually and broken down into  
providing annual statements, ongoing access to advisers expertise, and an annual 
review of objectives, risk profile, and asset allocation. 
Sage agreed to reduce the ongoing charge to 0.5%pa from outset, but nothing was 
documented to suggest it would provide any greater level of service to include pro-
actively switching Gs funds.
There is an expectation that the client will be able to tolerate the ups and downs of 
the stock market in the funds selected for G  and there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that with a highest medium attitude to risk and a willingness to invest for at 
least five years, G was in a position to accommodate this.
Each time a switch was proposed, Sage was obliged under the regulators rules to 
recommend that switch to G and obtain its agreement  as it didnt have the 
regulators permission to carry out the separate activity of managing investments.
To review a portfolio more regularly than this would typically involve a higher charge 
and is usually delegated to a discretionary fund manager (who can make switches 
without advising on them first and having to give individual reasons).
Within reason annual reviews may take place more or less frequently  such as if 
changes might be needed in reaction to global events. That doesnt mean that funds 
will always be changed if theyre delivering satisfactory performance.
It had been necessary for me to refer to earlier events in order to set the scene for Sages 
actions in March 2020. In particular, I noted the conversation in December 2019 when Sage 
proposed increasing the risk in 30% of the portfolio, because it was at this point that G told 
Sage it had assumed in return that Sage would monitor these regularly and take action to 
reduce losses should they occur. I didnt think Sage could practically agree that, given it 
wasnt acting as a discretionary manager  and this illustrates well the difference in 
expectations between G and Sage. 
Regarding the events of March 2020, I found in my provisional decision there was enough 
evidence to demonstrate that there should be significant doubt about the veracity of Sages 
13 March 2020 letter. I dont say this lightly, but for the compliance expert (and Im using the 
word expert here for a reason) not to refer to the most relevant piece of evidence seems to 
me to be more than just an oversight. She was left to rely on the weaker argument of G not 
noticing the fund switches had taken place on Avivas statements, which I cant see she 
would have chosen to do otherwise.
All of this strongly indicates that Sage didnt provide her with the 13 March letter. And I would
have to question why it didnt do that if its intention was for a third party to carry out an
independent review of the complaint, which Im entitled to accept at face value was its
intention. Im satisfied Sage most likely didnt provide that letter to the compliance expert
because it hadnt kept a record of it. And I would need to be satisfied there were adequate
records of it, to find that it was posted to G.
There is no requirement for a firm to send letters by recorded delivery, but Ive noticed (as G
has) that Sage sent other letters to the directors by attaching them to emails. Why not this 
letter? I said that if Sage can provide evidence of other occasions it has written to G by post I 
would be prepared to consider them. But I suspect that wont change the outcome as this 
isnt the only problem here. There are also points to consider about the timing of the letter.
A different date is given for the meeting in the final response letter, and Sage hasnt
evidenced how the compliance expert obtained this date (16 March) from a file note. 
However, there isnt any dispute that a meeting took place (or that a phone call took
place, at least to arrange that meeting). So Im prepared to accept that the final responsewas likely confused about the date of the meeting itself. But thats not the key point, which is
that the adviser had already made the fund switches (on 9 and 10 March), and the earliest
date given for the meeting is 13 March.
No evidence has been produced that these discussions were triggered by the directors
instructing Sage to make a switch. I take the point that they had some investment
experience, and have seen evidence that they shared their views about investments they or
G should make with Sage at other times. No recording has been provided of the phone call. 
Ive taken into account Gs view (which Sage has not disputed) that the call would most likely 
have been with the director who doesnt have investment experience, and was to schedule 
the meeting. In the absence of G initiating a request to switch in that call, which Im
not satisfied it did, the terms of Sages engagement required it to advise G on that first.
Its harder to accept that the potentially significant financial consequences of switching could
have been adequately addressed in a phone call, when a meeting was shortly due to take
place. All of the options open to the directors should have been discussed and documented
in full - and in my view there is neither a note of that meeting or a letter that does that
adequately enough to protect the adviser in this case. The directors agreement to switch (if
they wanted to) also wasnt sought in writing.
Sages terms of business say, We prefer our clients to give us instructions in writing, to aid
clarification and avoid future misunderstanding. We will, however, accept oral instructions
provided they are confirmed in writing. So, I think it has to count against Sage that it was
prepared to take about £700,000 out of the market without being able to show that it sought
that written confirmation.
Im not considering the pension and ISA aspects in this complaint, but I think it would be
difficult for the directors to argue that these policies should have been switched to cash, for
precisely the reasons that I dont think Sage should have advised G to switch its own funds.
As Sage itself said (but puzzlingly after switching Gs funds to cash), It is impossible to
forecast the market. What happened here was largely inevitable: if a market has already
dropped before an adviser decides to recommend switching out, then some of the initial
rises are also likely to be missed. Ive kept in mind that G wasnt the only client Sage had to 
assist, and it cant have possessed greater skill than fund managers themselves, who take a
longer-term view - knowing the risks of attempting to time the markets in this way.
Preparing to access funds for a known future event (such as retiring or spending) should
ideally happen gradually and not on a single day. In effect this is the reverse situation of
phased switching back into the markets which Sage began to carry out soon afterwards. If it
was thought to be less risky to spread the reinvestment into the markets, then by extension it
should have been considered too risky to sell everything to cash at once. The options that
should have been discussed included staying invested, switching only some of the funds out
to cash, switching to lower-risk funds, or only unwinding any switch into more aggressive
funds that had recently taken place.
All of these came with risks, but in unpredictable market situations  and Covid-19 was no
different  the risk can easily be increased by making a knee-jerk reaction. It wasnt in my
view possible for the adviser to expect lower risk assets such as bonds to be immune from
short-term volatility either, because the economic effects of Covid were expected to be
significant. But the most drastic option of switching everything out to cash carried the
greatest risk of these market timing issues.
The advisers notes of the initial phone call say that it was mutually agreed that the switch
to cash was made  which implies he would recommend it. However the same note states
that Gs money was a medium-term investment, which does not reconcile with advice toswitch to cash. The 13 March meeting (according to what the letter says) indicates more that
the directors concerns about the markets were driving the switch. But this is insufficient in
my view to show that the adviser strongly encouraged them not to exit the market unless
they absolutely had to, which I think was the suitable advice to give.
It is of course possible that the client then overrides the advisers advice, but Sage in this
case hasnt shown that it properly advised and then awaited Gs reaction. It was the
advisers role to give suitable advice in all circumstances as that is what he is paid to do. I
cant fairly say that the particular nature of the pandemic changed any of this. Where
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must consider what is most likely to have
happened in light of the wider circumstances. And here, given that the switch had already
been made before the adviser met the directors, I prefer their evidence that they became
upset and confused at what the adviser had done  and that the agreement to drip feed
funds back into the market was an attempt to mitigate that disagreement.
Ive taken into account that the directors had some investment expertise, and they didnt
formally criticise the switch in writing for some considerable time. However the adviser had
to issue further explanations (in late March and September 2020) for the switch. That
suggests to me that the directors had been questioning the move as early as it had
happened. 
I might have ordinarily expected them to take more steps to mitigate their loss if, as they
say, they fundamentally disagreed with what the adviser had done without their consent. 
However what changes this ordinary expectation is that there was already a strategy to 
make back that loss by trying to time reinvestment into the markets, and the adviser was 
involved in that strategy.
It was only later that the directors began to question whether this had made the problem
worse. The fact that they seem to have been friends with the adviser is an understandable
consideration in how long it took them to formally raise concerns. But I dont think that
detracts from their complaint and this is perhaps best summarised by the compliance
experts own comment: I believe there are learning points for the firm in their dealings with
their clients especially where the client is also a friend/neighbour and one may feel that less
formality is acceptable when clearly it is not as demonstrated here.
Its relevant to note here that Sage remained Gs adviser until 14 September 2020 when it 
disengaged. The final response letter refers to a notice period to end the agreement and as
that is seven days, I consider it fair to say that Sage is actually responsible for the advice it
gave G up to and including 21 September 2020.
In my decision of 2 March 2023, I was provisionally minded to say what should have 
happened is that the adviser recommended the directors remain invested in Gs portfolio on 
9/10 March 2020, if they possibly could. I hadnt been provided with enough evidence to 
demonstrate that the directors wouldnt have agreed to this advice, if it had been given to 
them.
I thought two things mainly caused the breakdown in Gs relationship with Sage. One was 
the advisers actions in taking Gs funds out of the market without a fully advised discussion 
on the options. And the other was that, for some time, the directors had been seeking to 
lower Sages charges. The latter point is not something that Sage was bound to agree to. 
So, I didnt think I could fairly hold Sage responsible for the performance of Gs funds after 
21 September 2020.
Responses to my Provisional DecisionOne of Gs directors (who Ill refer to as Mr H) provided a 16-page response which covered 
many of the previous points he had made about the events from March 2020 onwards. It 
also questioned the advice given on both the directors company and personal investments 
from the outset of the relationship with Sage. As Ive said I wont be considering any wider 
issues as part of this decision, I will provide a shorter summary of the relevant points here. 
In terms of the outcome I reached, Mr H reiterated his position (which I should point out, Ive 
already accepted on the balance of probabilities) that they did criticise the sale to cash from 
the moment the adviser told them hed made it, but from his actions they equally became 
confused at whether they would lose a large value of their investments (including personal 
investments which hadnt been switched to cash). They only relented on asking for it to be 
unwound as the adviser reassured them he would drip feed back into the markets. Mr H also 
made the following comments:
- No terms of business were handed out separately for Gs investments. But even the 
terms Mr H received for his own investment referred to ongoing advice and support 
with no limitations mentioned.
- The adviser should have consulted earlier to consider the many options, rather than 
unilaterally panic and disinvest after the markets had already declined. Other 
advisers say the crash at the beginning of February 2020 was both foreseeable and 
avoidable and made contingency plans with their clients to mitigate its impact.
- He wasnt given the opportunity to research and invest into better performing funds, 
rather than the poorly performing prior funds  which is what they had been asking 
the adviser to do throughout his tenure including emails of March and December 
2019. They had also expected him to do this with the drip-feeding exercise.
-The period after the pandemic crash presented bargain investment fund 
opportunities where good funds had been artificially devalued and could be bought at 
a discount. They were likely to do well as optimism returned. This would have been 
an ideal opportunity to select these funds
- The adviser should have reviewed and increased their attitude to risk (beyond 
highest medium) after the switch to cash in order to reflect their appetite to take 
advantage of low prices.
- The situation created by the adviser required active intervention to rectify, 
irrespective of any terms and conditions  and even if it involved him breaching his 
permissions that prevented him carrying out discretionary management. How else 
could the drip feeding have been achieved?
On the fees G was paying which led to the termination of the relationship, Mr H also said:
- The adviser never told them he objected to reducing his fees until after the complaint. 
They would have respected this otherwise. They had only discussed lowering fees 
before the pandemic  in later requests they were simply asking what the fees were, 
to put what looked to be underperformance of the funds into perspective.
- It does however now seem that as soon as the adviser was required to do more work 
(reinvest into the market), to rectify a problem hed created, it was too burdensome 
for him and that was why he disengaged.
- Paying lower fees should not excuse the adviser from delivering a quality service. In 
fact, as they were friends he should probably have tried even harder to achieve this.
- Sage should have ensured the £275,000 remaining uninvested was put back into the 
market before disengaging.
- The adviser should have known that Aviva wouldnt deal with the directors as 
'orphaned clients', and he should have outlined a comprehensive handover. The 
Aviva contact he gave them didnt respond or engage with them. 
- The adviser should not be allowed to get away with fabricating a letter dated 13 
March 2020. It amounts to an extraordinary effort to deny them justice and any compensation due. 
- There has been 'professional sabotage' by Sage in the arrogant approach taken to its 
management of Gs investments.
Mr H separately had concerns about the proposals Id made to put things right. I wanted to 
put G back in the position it would have been in if no action had taken by Sage in March 
2020. But in his view, the directors objective had been to enhance the performance of all 
their investments throughout its tenure. Further, he said:
- Firstly the starting position for calculating compensation is wrong because (as a 
result of wider concerns he has about Sages dealings throughout) G shouldnt have 
been invested in the funds before the switch in March 2020 in the first place.
- In the 6-7 months after March Gs original funds would have increased in value rather 
than declined further. Compensation is only paid if the original invested funds lose 
value between the two dates. So he wasnt sure this would result in compensation.
- Some of the property funds were suspended/frozen during the pandemic and that 
might adversely affect the compensation payable. 
- I should award compensation for loss of investment potential based on newly chosen 
and potentially better performing funds, rather than the previous funds.
- The advisers emails from August and September 2020 referred to different charges 
than those outlined in the Provisional Decision. 
- The lowered Aviva charge of 0.13% seems not to have been applied at all, and he 
doubts whether Sage lowered its ongoing fee to 0.38%pa or took no initial 3% charge 
on further transactions. Any costs for disinvesting and reinvesting Gs funds also 
needed to be refunded, as well as the impact of £275,000 never being reinvested. 
- Aviva has said the adviser held agency on the platform until 28 September 2020. 
How does this factor into the provisional decision using a date of 21 September?
- The £200 Sage has offered wouldnt begin to reflect the lack of handover and the 
mess Sage left them in, and it didnt in any event give the 7-day notice. 
- I should be taking into account the human impact on he and his wife as directors. 
Sages actions represent the devaluing of a lifetime of hard work and have led to 
Mr H being unable to retire at age 55. I should also make allowance for the time 
taken out of work to make submissions on the complaint.
- A capital gain is unlikely to have occurred. However, G had to incur extra costs 
(£100+VAT) to investigate the impact of the disinvestment on Corporation Tax. 
Sage made the following comments:
During its tenure as Bs (and the directors personal) adviser, they made a profit in 
excess of £150,000 which they havent acknowledged. 
It resigned as their adviser because it was unwilling to do the work required for 
virtually nothing, and the complaint had only arisen because of this.
The directors had been managing the investments with Hargreaves Lansdown 
themselves before the switch to Aviva, and even now invest in Enterprise Investment 
Schemes (EIS) and Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs). So they had a high level of 
knowledge of investment markets.
There was no incentive or motive for Sage to move funds without the clients 
consent. Everything was discussed before any switch took place. In any event, Aviva 
would have sent a confirmation letter out after every switch as well as it appearing on 
quarterly reports sent to the client.
Its significant that the directors didnt raise a query immediately when the switch had 
happened. This isnt the type of client that quietly stands by when not in agreement.
The rationale for differing advice on the pension and ISA was sound. Irrespective of 
Mr Hs aspirations to retire at age 55, his pension had actually been written to age 65 and was considered a long-term investment. Gs funds had been invested for five 
years in 2017 and so could potentially be needed in 2022.
The complainant knew that I was selecting funds and was not a discretionary fund 
managerIt is impossible to predict the market and the decision to move the money 
to cash was to safeguard this against further falls.
Verbal instructions can be accepted to move funds, and those were given in the 
conversation of 9 March 2020 (for which its unable to provide a recording).
Its emails from August and September 2020 referring to its management fee being 
lowered to 0.35% look to be a typo, as only the 0.38% fee was ever agreed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where this complaint sits in relation to other complaints
I want to reiterate that Im not investigating all of the products and funds Sage ever sold to G 
within this decision. For one thing, that wasnt what the investigator has already looked at: 
his investigation was focused on the well-defined issue of what prompted the switch in 
March 2020. And it simply isnt achievable for one complaint to span everything Sage has 
ever done or allegedly failed to do: particularly as the directors complaints cover personal 
investments as well as Gs. But I will also refer to Mr Hs concerns about the fee reductions 
in this decision, as they will impact how redress is calculated for the switch to cash.
As Ive said previously, this service can separately consider any other complaints G or the 
directors personally may have, but only providing Sage has had an opportunity to comment 
on them beforehand. So, Im attaching a list of the issues Mr H has mentioned in his 
response to the Provisional Decision, which I wont be commenting on further here. A brief 
summary is that the whole Aviva platform was too expensive for their investments and they 
were inappropriately diversified; or alternatively  as the adviser could never proactively 
review those investments in real time (but never told them this)  he should have appointed 
a discretionary manager instead. 
I think Mr Hs emphasis on these other issues might have been prompted by a 
misunderstanding of how the loss calculation I set out in my Provisional Decision works. He 
says that Gs original funds would (ultimately) have recovered their value rather than 
declined further. If correct, that would mean theyll have outperformed cash  so the formula 
Ive set out would produce a loss for which G should be compensated. 
Im satisfied that I can continue looking at the complaint in front of me because the allegation 
that Sage took the wrong knee-jerk reaction to the market movements in March 2020 is a 
well-defined issue both in subject matter and time. Gs investments were in particular funds 
on the Aviva platform and that is the starting point for what Im considering here; 
notwithstanding that Mr H may now be wondering whether another provider or funds might 
have been better. In the event that G has another complaint about how it was invested up to 
March 2020, and that complaint is upheld, it would obviously be fair and reasonable for any 
compensation Sage pays as a result of this decision to be taken into account.
So, this may not necessarily mean further compensation is payable to G. I cannot second-
guess the outcome of other complaints, but I should make Gs directors aware that this 
service wont be able to put a complainant in a financial position as if they (or, say, a 
discretionary manager) had been able to successfully time the markets in such a way that 
they benefited from falling and rising fund prices. Thats because when we award 
compensation where we dont know where the complainant would have invested, we use a benchmark for investment growth  such as the FTSE Private Investors index I used for the 
period after September 2020 in my Provisional Decision.
The benchmarks we use are based on money being continually invested and not taken into 
and out of the markets in the way Mr H would like. It is only from a position of hindsight that it 
can be seen when would have been the most opportune point to time the markets in this 
way. So, taking all of this into account, and in the event Gs wider concerns are prompted by 
a misunderstanding that it wont receive any compensation from this decision, I think it 
should wait to see what redress it obtains before proceeding blindly with other complaints 
about the companys investments.
The outcome of the fund switch complaint
In reply to my Provisional Decision, I would have expected Sage to comment on the 13 
March 2020 letter, which G believes was fabricated and I too have said I have concerns 
about. But it has said nothing in response. I can only stand by what I said in the Provisional 
Decision on this point. I make my decisions on the balance of probabilities. If the veracity of 
a major piece of evidence is called into doubt, that has significant consequences for whether 
I can reasonably be expected to accept Sages version of events over Gs. 
I understand Sages comment that there was no incentive or motive for it to move funds 
without the clients consent, but this is complicated by the overfamiliar nature of the 
relationship between the adviser and the client in this particular case. I think its plausible 
that the adviser acted on impulse without going through the proper advice process because 
he thought it would produce a better outcome in the long run for G. In my view that was a 
mistake. It has exposed Sage to this complaint, and means Sage doesnt have the expected 
and corroborated level of contemporaneous level of evidence to defend itself from the 
complaint.
Verbal instructions can indeed be accepted to move funds, but in this day and age it would 
not be too difficult to keep a recording of such instructions or (as the terms of business 
specifically say) ask for immediate confirmation in writing. That wasnt done in this case, so 
again Sage has left itself in an exposed position of its own making.
Ive already said that Gs directors have provided a plausible explanation for why their initial 
concern at what had happened was overtaken by a commitment from Sage to reinvest them 
into the market in a way that they would continue to benefit. My opinion on this hasnt been 
changed by the responses to the Provisional Decision  in fact Mr H has reiterated much the 
same explanation, which I find more persuasive than Sages account of events. 
I think the fact that G was not the type of client that (in Sages words) quietly stands by has 
been borne out in this complaint  but I dont think that precludes that G was at first (and 
perhaps reluctantly) persuaded to see out Sages drip-feeding strategy before doing so. I 
can however see that this was quickly unravelled by later events, which include Sage 
investing one directors pension contributions fully into the market in April 2020  when it had 
not begun drip feeding any of Gs funds.
So, I continue to prefer Gs explanation that the switch to cash was carried out with 
inadequate explanation in the first instance, and indeed contrary to Sages terms of business 
and regulatory permissions which required it to advise and gain Gs agreement to the switch. 
Ive already agreed with G that Sage should have considered all the options  and the 
regulator would expect its advice to be suitable for Gs circumstances and objectives. I think 
Sage is relying too heavily on what the originally intended term for the company investment 
was (five years), when thats unlikely to have been set in stone, and before updating its fact-
finding on the companys objectives for this money.It's evident from the way its argued the complaint (even suggesting an increase in risk) that 
G didnt need all this money to be in cash for an immediate purpose. Had Sage asked it at 
the time, I think that would have been the answer. Sage is also arguing that Mr Hs pension 
was written to age 65  more than ten years later  so it doesnt seem it expected Mr H to 
retire from the business soon either. If funds needed to be made available from the 
business, then it should have established over what timeframe and made sensible proposals 
to phase funds out of the market. Doing it all at once at a point where the funds had already 
dropped by about 20% wasnt in my view sensible advice. 
As Sage has again said in response to the Provisional Decision, It is impossible to predict 
the market and the decision to move the money to cash was to safeguard this against further 
falls. That statement contains an inherent contradiction, as whilst switching to cash might 
stem the immediate problem of a market that was likely to fall further, there was no way 
Sage could guarantee to get the timing right for when Gs funds should go back into the 
market. Moving them all out at once just created a bigger problem of when to reinvest into a 
market that was impossible to predict. 
As Ive already said, Sage was less likely to be criticised for advising G to remain invested 
due to this inherent unpredictability of how the markets would react to Covid. It is of course 
possible that G might still have complained that the funds had gone down, but that would be 
a complaint Sage could more easily have defended.
The reason I think Sage could have more easily defended that alternative complaint is that G 
had a misunderstanding that Sages role was, in effect, a discretionary manager. I dont 
doubt what G says about only one copy of Sages terms of business being handed out. But I 
cant see it had any basis for believing Sages advice to B was governed by any other terms, 
as this was a standard document. The emphasis on reviews being carried out annually (or 
thereabouts) is in my view clear. 
I agree that Sage may have allowed a different impression to develop as a result of what its 
compliance expert referred to as less formality in the advice process (as the adviser was 
friends with the directors). In addition Ive already said that Sage should have explained to 
Gs directors in December 2019 that their expectation that it would monitor funds regularly 
and take action to reduce losses should they occur, couldnt be met. 
However, even though some market turbulence was expected due to Covid, I also dont 
agree with Mr Hs comment that a financial adviser could reasonably have exited all their 
clients portfolios precisely when they were at the top of the market and then reinvested them 
precisely at the bottom. This is fraught with danger, and particularly when an adviser has 
multiple clients portfolios to go through an advice process on, significant periods of positive 
performance are likely to be missed. 
So, when it came to the events of March 2020, Sage shouldnt have put itself in the position 
of attempting to time the markets on Gs portfolio. But the remedy of that mistake isnt to 
place G in the position where Sage did successfully manage to time the markets  
something which Ive already said wouldnt have been feasible. 
Sage wasnt prevented from drip feeding funds into the markets if it advised and obtained 
the directors agreement for each tranche invested (or even for a whole schedule of 
reinvestments, reflecting the fact that it was very difficult to predict the best timing). Ive seen 
insufficient evidence that this is what it did. However, thats secondary to the point that I think 
the most suitable advice  given it was difficult to avoid a 20% fall in the markets in the first 
place  was that G was better off remaining invested without an immediate short-term need 
for the funds. To address another point Mr H has made, I also think G would have been ill advised to 
increase its attitude to risk above the medium-high level already assessed, in an attempt to 
make back that 20% fall, precisely when the markets were likely to be more volatile. That 
increased the risk of losses being suffered beyond its capacity to accept. 
Im persuaded on balance that if Sage had given this suitable advice, the directors would 
have accepted it. Ive considered Mr Hs point that he might have wanted to time the markets 
himself, but it seems to me that was why he had decided to move away from Hargreaves 
Lansdown originally. He may believe with hindsight he could have done so, but I find that 
even less likely whilst also continuing to work through a pandemic. 
The impact of agreements to lower fees on the redress Im proposing 
I agree that an agreed level of lower fees should not excuse the adviser from delivering the 
same service that was already set out in the terms of business. What I dont agree with is 
that G should have received a different service to other clients, simply because its directors 
were friends with the adviser. I would expect all Sages clients to be treated fairly. 
Sage had never agreed to, did not have regulatory permission for, and wasnt making a 
commensurate charge for, carrying out discretionary management on Gs funds. Ive set out 
above the service, including advice, that I think Sage should have provided to G in March 
2020 for the fees it was taking, and I explain in the next section how Sage should establish 
whether this has caused G to suffer a loss.
Mr H highlighted that Sage referred to a different figure of 0.35% in its emails of August and 
September 2020. Sage thinks that was a typo, and Ive only seen an email in January 2020 
when it referred to 0.38%. Going back through all the submissions G has made, I havent 
found reference to an expectation, in January 2020, that it would be paying 0.35%. So, Im 
satisfied 0.38% is the correct figure. 
I find it hard to accept that G wasnt aware of Sages reluctance to reduce fees to 0.38%. 
Before doing so, Sage had re-justified why the 50% discount was enough, even considering 
they were already friends. If Sages agreement to go lower in part led to a later regret and its 
termination of the relationship, its not possible for me to completely unwind this. 
Clearly, both parties have now moved on so its unrealistic to expect G to be put back into 
the position as if this had never happened. In my view Mr Hs expectations (and indeed 
demands) for Sage to perform the role of a discretionary manager at the amount it was 
charging were unrealistic, so notwithstanding the errors it made I think Sage was entitled to 
come to the same realisation and take the view that it wouldnt be able to work productively 
with G moving forwards. 
I also cant reasonably say that Sage could have achieved a reinvestment of the remaining 
cash in Gs portfolio when the relationship had already broken down, as it would need to 
advise where it should be reinvested, and obtain Gs agreement. In my view the notice 
period was intended to cover investments that were in the process of being effected  not 
advice that hadnt yet been given. Even if Sage had been able to advise, there wouldnt have 
been much opportunity for that sum to perform differently than cash before the loss 
crystallised on 21 September 2020, so this becomes somewhat academic.
Putting things right
What Ive set out below would in my view provide fair and reasonable compensation for the 
inappropriate advice and service Sage Financial Management Limited gave G from March 2020 onwards:
1. Sage must obtain a notional value of Gs portfolio from Aviva for 21 September 2020, 
assuming it had remained invested in the existing funds beyond 9/10 March 2020, and 
compare this with the actual value on 21 September 2020. If the notional value is greater 
than the actual value, the difference is Gs loss. 
G will need to provide a letter of authority for Sage to obtain this information from Aviva. 
The notional value should take into account the agreed product charge between Sage 
and Aviva (0.13% - evidence of Sages instruction to Aviva attached) and Sages agreed 
ongoing fee of 0.38%. So, in the event that Aviva hasnt implemented either of these 
charges for some reason  and I have nothing concrete to say it hasnt  Sage should 
address that with Aviva itself first.
Im also not aware that there were buying and selling costs (or initial charges) for 
switching into and out of cash, but to the extent there were these will automatically be 
taken into account in the comparison with the position where G had remained invested 
with no such transactions occurring.
There are a few points Id like to clarify on using this end date, and why Im going to refer 
to the funds G was already invested in, rather than the better funds Mr H thinks should 
have been selected:
- Firstly, these funds had been reviewed as recently as December 2019, so I dont 
think (other than almost all funds suffering falls due to Covid) there was enough to 
say the funds were no longer appropriate for long-term investment. 
- In fact it would make more sense to continue with funds that had already sustained 
losses, because they now held onto assets at depressed prices and to switch out of 
them at that point would risk foregoing the recovery in the very same assets.
- The same logic applies to property funds  a recovery would reasonably be expected 
in the longer term and in my view the long-term value of those funds would be 
reflected in their unit price at the date losses crystallise on 21 September 2020  
whether or not dealing in those funds became suspended for some of that time.
- Its only with hindsight that Mr H can now say which funds would have made better 
choices at this time. Sage cannot have been expected to have equal foresight.
- Mr H is correct to note that Sage held agency on the Aviva platform until 28 
September, but that was in effect because G hadnt yet chosen a new adviser after 
Sage said it was no longer willing to act. It isnt possible for one adviser to block the 
appointment of another of the clients choice.
- Ive allowed for seven days from 14 to 21 September 2020 because the adviser didnt 
give the required notice. Its been part of Gs case that it had been dissatisfied with 
Sages actions for a period of some months. It hadnt been prevented from looking for 
a different adviser or giving its own instructions directly to Aviva prior to that date.
- Its irrelevant if G and/or its directors have made a £150,000 absolute gain overall 
under Sages advice - its the relative gain they may have experienced if they had 
remained invested in the markets beyond March 2020 that Im interested in here.
2. If Aviva isnt able to calculate a notional value for Gs portfolio on the basis Ive set out 
above, it will suffice for Sage to quantify any loss by reference to the change in unit prices 
of the funds G was invested in between 9/10 March and 21 September 2020 - and 
making an adjustment for the actual product and ongoing fees agreed.
3. Any loss identified above should be updated from 21 September 2020 to the date of this 
Final Decision by applying a benchmark of investment growth thats consistent with the 
original risk approach adopted for Gs portfolio. In my view the FTSE UK Private Investor Income index (on a total return basis) would provide a comparable ratio of shares to other 
asset classes, to the funds G was originally invested in.
4. Sage must pay the updated amount to G as a cash sum, plus interest at the rate of 8% 
per year simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement, if it doesnt 
settle the complaint within 28 days of receipt of Gs acceptance of the final decision.
Regarding the upset Sage has caused, I said in my Provisional Decision that as a company 
isnt a natural person I cant consider G to have experienced the distress that its directors 
have experienced. I also said that as Sage was entitled to end the advisory relationship it 
wasnt appropriate for me to make an award for the inconvenience of having to seek other 
financial advice. Indeed it seems from the comments Mr H has made that this process may 
have been made harder for him by Aviva, which is a matter for him to address with that firm.
I also referred to the inquisitorial role service has - and which I have used - to get to the 
bottom of a complaint without requiring lengthy and detailed submissions, or expert 
assistance. Complaining is by its very nature inconvenient, and this has not been a 
straightforward complaint to decide. I havent been able to accept some of Gs arguments, 
some of which have been contradictory, even though I ultimately didnt accept Sages 
position on why it effected the switches in March 2020 and this has led to me upholding the 
complaint in part. I dont think its appropriate for me to make an award in respect of the time 
Mr H has spent formulating arguments, some of which I havent found persuasive.
I said in the Provisional Decision that it may be necessary for G to bring any specific 
concerns it has about a Capital Gains tax liability to Sage separately, as this hadnt been 
quantified. I note it now agrees there is no liability as such, but it says it incurred costs of 
£100+VAT for this to be investigated. Ive seen Gs invoice for this charge and it is stated to 
be for submitting a Corporation Tax return, which would be required each year in any event. 
I dont think it is possible to identify a specific (and likely negligible) portion of this charge that 
relates to declaring G had made no capital gain on the 2020 encashment.
I would have said that the offer of £200 Sage made in respect of two weeks of ongoing fees 
it collected from the Aviva platform from 14 September 2020 onwards would represent fair 
compensation for its failure to give the required notice period. Sage has confirmed that this 
offer covers both the company and personal investments. I think its reasonable that as part 
of settling this complaint Sage also pays that sum. Although Mr H regards this a payment for 
the inconvenience of having to change adviser, I didnt say that it was. 
My final decision
I uphold Bs complaint in part, and require Sage Financial Management Limited to pay it 
redress as calculated above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman