DRN-3535811
The complaint
Miss M complained because Think Money Limited refused to refund her for transactions 
which took place on her account when she was in prison.
What happened
On 24 July 2020, Miss M went to court. She was then in prison until 11 March 2021.
On 13 March 2021, Miss M contacted Think Money and disputed multiple payments which 
had been debited from her account while shed been in prison. Miss M said that it had been 
her daughter whod made the transactions, and she wanted a refund. The total she 
requested was just over £3,000. 
In the call, Miss M told Think Money said that shortly before going to prison, shed had a new 
phone. Shed moved everything over to the new one, and had wiped her old phone ready to 
sell it. Her old phone had also been password protected. Shed left the old phone in her 
house, and had taken her new phone with her on the day she went to court. The prison had 
confirmed that it had taken Miss Ms new phone and her Think Money card from her on 
arrival on 24 July 2020, and Miss M hadnt had any access to them while she was in prison. 
It was the old phone on which the disputed transactions had been done.
Think Moneys adviser asked Miss M about a rent payment for £264 which had been debited 
after Miss M went to prison. Miss M said shed set that up to go out. She also told Think 
Money that in August or September 2020, her friends had said her daughter had told them 
there was no money in her account, but the prison had prevented her from contacting Think 
Money about that. 
Think Money also checked that Miss M really wanted to proceed with the claim and go to the 
police, because of possible serious implications for her daughter. Miss M said she did, and 
she reported her daughter to the police.
On 21 April, Think Moneys fraud team rang Miss M again to discuss what had happened. 
On this call, some of what Miss M said was different. She said shed intended to reset the 
old phone to factory settings then sell it, but as she hadnt expected to go to prison she 
hadnt done that. She also said there hadnt been any password protection on the old phone. 
That was because only she and her daughter lived there, and she didnt ever take it to work. 
Miss M also told Think Money that her login details were written down and left in her top 
drawer.
Miss M also said that after shed reported her daughter, her daughter had admitted fraud to 
the police.
On 23 April, Think Money turned down Miss Ms claim for a refund for the disputed 
transactions. In its final response letter, it said that it couldnt pursue the matter as fraud, and 
said shed have to pursue it with the police instead. Think Money had also blocked Miss Ms 
app when she first disputed the transactions in March, and hadnt unblocked it until it had 
finished its investigation. It agreed that it should have unblocked it sooner, and paid Miss M 
£40 compensation for the delay.
Miss M wasnt satisfied that Think Money had turned down her claim for a refund, and 
contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. She said that both sides agreed that Miss 
Ms daughter had accessed her online banking and had made several faster payments. 
There had also been card payments, to companies which Miss M had said were to 
companies to which her card was already linked. The investigator explained that what she 
needed to decide was whether or not it was most likely that Miss M had given her daughter 
her online banking details and access to her old phone, so she could use the account. The 
investigator thought it was likely Miss M had given her daughter authority to use Miss Ms 
account, so shed authorised the disputed transactions. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said her daughter had admitted fraud to the police. The investigator 
explained that even though Miss Ms daughter had admitted to fraud, Think Money wasnt 
obliged to refund her. Miss M said she couldnt take a 17 year old to court, and she was the 
victim here. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I recognise that Miss M said that she wanted to provide us with a transcript from the 
police interview of her daughter. She wasnt able to give us a timescale for when she could 
obtain this. But that wouldnt help me to reach my decision on Miss Ms complaint. Thats 
because what the police look at in any criminal matter is different from what I need to 
consider here. What this service can look at is just an individuals complaint against the 
bank. And there are very specific regulations which set out what determines whether or not a 
bank has to refund a customer for a disputed transaction  which Ill set out below. The 
transcript wouldnt help with that.
The regulations
The relevant regulations which govern disputed transactions are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here,  Think Money) must 
show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, theres no 
dispute about the technical authentication of the payments. They were authenticated through 
Miss Ms registered app, phone, and security details. 
The regulations also say its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they authorised them. So, what determines whether or not Think 
Money has to refund Miss M, is whether or not she authorised the payments.
Authorisation doesnt have to be by the account holder in person. Its possible for a customer 
to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on their behalf, so that they would 
be liable for them, even if they didnt physically make them themselves or give their explicit 
authority for them. That means that a bank can hold a customer liable for any transactions 
that happened because they gave someone authority to act on their behalf. 
So what Ive considered is whether Miss M authorised her daughter to make payments, 
either directly, or because she enabled her daughter to make the payments.Is Miss M liable for the disputed payments?
Looking at the transactions, a £264 rent payment left Miss Ms account on 26 July. Technical 
evidence shows that this was made by faster payment, using Miss Ms old phone. Miss M 
said shed set that payment up in advance. But it was a faster payment, not a standing order 
or direct debit. So I dont think its likely that Miss M had set it up in advance. And shes told 
us she didnt expect to go to prison, so there wouldnt have been any reason for her to know 
shed have to arrange for payment in advance. So I think its most likely that Miss M 
authorised her daughter to pay the rent, and to do so told her where to find the security login 
details shed written down, as well as the phone. 
Some of the other transactions were also bills which were paid, for example to a telecoms 
company.
 
And some of the credits to the account were for child benefit. I think its likely that Miss M 
would have allowed her daughter, who was around 16 at the time, to have used this for 
expenses, in line with the purpose of the benefit. This is borne out by a letter which a friend 
of Miss M sent to her in prison, which she supplied to us. This said that her daughter is 
adamant there is no money for anything after bills were paid and college books bought 
there was nothing.
Miss M also told us that in summer 2020, friends told her that her account was being used 
by her daughter. But she didnt contact Think Money at that point, for example to say shed 
never allowed her daughter to use the account at all, and that Think Money should block it. 
Miss M said that the prison wouldnt let her contact Think Money. That seems unlikely, but 
even if it had, Miss M was clearly in touch with her friends, and could have asked them to 
contact Think Money to put a stop on her account, even if her circumstances may have 
made this difficult. But she didnt do so. and this meant that the apparent authority continued.
I realise that Miss M may not have necessarily wanted the payments in dispute here to be 
made. But the regulations Ive mentioned here dont distinguish between why someone may 
make a payment, or allow a payment to be made. If authority is given that allows payments 
to be made, then itll usually be fair for a bank to hold a customer liable for them.
Thats what I think has happened here. I understand that its possible that Miss Ms daughter 
made extra withdrawals, not just ones which Miss M would have wanted her to make. But I 
think Miss M had given her daughter the authority to use her old phone and security details 
for payments here. And I think that when Miss M would have done that, she would have 
been aware that her daughter could have used those details to authorise other payments 
from the account. That means that Think Money had no reason to know that some payments 
were genuine and others werent.  The regulations say that as Miss M had more likely than 
not given authority here, its fair she can be held liable for the disputed payments.
The regulations, and the circumstances here, mean that the disputed transactions count as 
authorised by Miss M. So I dont require Barclays to refund her for the disputed transactions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman