DRN-2607993
The complaint
Mr K complains about the adverse information that Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading as 
Hyundai Finance, has recorded on his credit file relating to a conditional sale agreement 
under which a car was supplied to him. 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr K under a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai Finance 
that he electronically signed in November 2019. He agreed to make 36 monthly payments of 
£157.91 and a final payment of £5,922 for the car. He also signed a direct debit form.
The first monthly payment due under the agreement wasnt collected so he was charged a 
£35 late payment fee by Hyundai Finance and it recorded a missed payment on his credit 
file. Mr K settled the conditional sale agreement and complained to Hyundai Finance.
It refunded the late payment fee to Mr K but said that the direct debit was returned by Mr Ks 
bank as having been cancelled so it wouldnt amend his credit file. Mr K wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service. He says that he requires £1,000 compensation 
and for his credit record to be cleared.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that hed seen 
no evidence to show that Hyundai Finance contacted Mr Ks bank to set up the direct debt 
and that, on the balance of probabilities, the direct debit wasnt collected because of an error 
by Hyundai Finance. He felt that it was responsible for putting things right and should 
remove the negative information from Mr Ks credit file. He thought that it should also pay 
him £200 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused.
Hyundai Finance hasnt responded to those recommendations but Mr K says that he should 
receive more than £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K signed the conditional sale agreement and the direct debit form in November 
2019 and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that the first monthly 
payment would be collected from him by direct debit;
that didnt happen and Hyundai Finance charged him a late payment fee of £35 and 
recorded a missed payment on his credit file  but Ive seen no evidence to show that 
it tried to collect the direct debit from Mr Ks bank or that the direct debit had been 
cancelled;
Mr Ks bank says that it received no electronic request or communication to set up 
the direct debit on Mr Ks account;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the direct debit either wasnt set up by 
Hyundai Finance at all, or wasnt set up by it correctly, and that it then didnt properly 
investigate the reason for the missed payment before charging the late payment fee 
to Mr K and recording the missed payment on his credit file;
Hyundai Finance is required to record true and accurate information on a customers 
credit file  but Im not persuaded that the missed payment that its recorded on 
Mr Ks credit file is true and accurate in these circumstances;
Mr K has settled his agreement and Hyundai Finance has refunded the late payment 
fee to him  but I consider that it would also be fair and reasonable for it remove any 
adverse information about the conditional sale agreement that it has recorded on his 
credit file;
these events will have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr K  and hes 
provided some information about the impact that these events have had on him;
our investigator recommended that Hyundai Finance should pay £200 to Mr K to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience but Mr K says that he should 
receive more than £200 compensation (and in his complaint form he referred to 
compensation of £1,000);
our investigator has said that he would consider any further evidence that Mr K was 
able to provide to show the impact that these events had on him  but he hasnt 
provided any further evidence; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance to pay £200 to Mr K to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused  but Im 
not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in these 
circumstances.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Finance to remove any adverse 
information about the conditional sale agreement that its recorded on Mr Ks credit file and 
to pay him £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been 
caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I order Hyundai Capital UK Limited, trading 
as Hyundai Finance, to:
1. Remove any adverse information about the conditional sale agreement that its 
recorded on Mr Ks credit file.
2. Pay £200 to Mr K to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman