DRN-1892477
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a loan she could not afford.
 
What happened
In 2014 Mrs F borrowed £25,000 from Lloyds to pay back her and her husbands credit card 
debts. The loan was to be repaid over seven years, and the total interest would be over 
£7,000. But in 2018 she complained that she could not afford the monthly payments, and 
she said that Lloyds had not carried out proper affordability checks.
At first, Lloyds agreed that its income and expenditure (I&E) assessment had not been 
conducted correctly. In its final response letter to Mrs F, it told her that it would refund all of 
her interest payments  which came to just over £7,000  leaving her with an outstanding 
balance of a little over £4,100. But Mrs F asked for this balance to be waived. She said she 
shouldnt have to pay anything more. Lloyds didnt agree, since it was now only asking her to 
finish paying back what she had borrowed. So she brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that by refunding the interest, Lloyds 
had done enough, and that as Mrs F had had the benefit of borrowing the money, it was only 
fair that she should pay it back. After he wrote that decision, Lloyds reconsidered the 
evidence and changed its mind about what had happened during the I&E assessment. It 
argued that the loan had not actually been mis-sold after all. Our investigator agreed, but he 
persuaded Lloyds that as it had told Mrs F in writing that it was going to refund the interest, 
and had allowed her to think that was the case for a few months before reconsidering, it 
would only be fair for it to stick to what it had said it would do. So Lloyds still refunded the 
interest as promised.
The investigator thought that was a fair outcome, but Mrs F still maintained that she should 
not have to pay back the outstanding balance. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case.
  
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have not considered whether the loan was mis-sold or not, because I dont need to. Lloyds 
has still repaid the interest, in accordance with what it said it would do in its final response. I 
think that was the right thing for it to do, and I was pleased to see that Lloyds agreed to do it.
If the loan wasnt mis-sold, then I certainly wouldnt have expected Lloyds to do more than it 
has. But even if it was mis-sold, I would still agree with the investigator that refunding the interest is fair compensation. The outstanding balance consists only of what still remains of 
the principal amount that Mrs F borrowed. Its only fair that she should pay that back; 
otherwise she would be in a better position than she would have been if Lloyds hadnt lent to 
her, and at Lloydss expense.
 
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman