DRN-2263077
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Society of Lloyds wont pay his home insurance claim for damage 
to his flooring. The claim was handled by a claims agency though for convenience Ill 
refer to Lloyds throughout.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr S contacted Lloyds to enquire about making a claim for some damage 
to the wooden flooring in his living room. The floor had started to buckle and rise in the 
middle. He had had his joiner look at it who had advised him to make a claim. After 
discussing the matter with the claims adviser, it was decided that he would get his joiner 
to lift the section of flooring and see if it could be repaired. If not he would contact Lloyds 
to register a claim. He was told it wouldnt send out an assessor at that stage. He was told 
to take plenty of photos of the area.
Several weeks later Mr S sent in his joiners report, a quote for £6,673 to replace the 
whole floor and photos of the area of the flooring in question. He had had the damaged 
section removed. His joiner said that the underside of the board was dry and he could 
only put it down to the change in temperature in the summer. Mr S contacted Lloyds 
again and was told that the claim had been declined because the damage was due to 
atmospheric conditions and wasnt covered. He queried this and said he thought he had 
an all risks policy. He was told that he didnt and that the only part of the policy it could be 
considered under was accidental damage. Mr S said he had been told by the first claims 
adviser that he should go ahead with the repairs, although clarified that at that stage he 
hadnt had the repairs done, but had still had the flooring uplifted on, he believed, Lloyds 
advice.
Mr S felt his claim was covered under accidental damage as he believed it had 
happened suddenly. Lloyds said that wasnt the case and pointed out an exclusion in 
the policy whereby it didnt cover Any loss or damage that does not arise from one 
identifiable event which directly and immediately caused the loss or damage. It said it 
wouldnt send an assessor out as the floor had already been uplifted. Mr S pointed out 
that he had asked for an assessor to come out in the first place.
Mr S felt hed been misled by Lloyds into believing his claim would be paid and that the 
claim would be covered as accidental damage. Lloyds agreed that Mr S shouldnt have 
been told that the claim would be declined due to the damage being caused by 
atmospheric
conditions, so it paid him £100 compensation. But it maintained that it hadnt told him the 
claim would be paid and that it wouldnt have sent out an assessor when there was no 
cover under the policy for the claim
.
I Issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think Lloyds had told Mr S the claim 
would be paid. I didnt think that the damage was covered by the policy so it was fair of 
Lloyds to decline it. I said it should pay a further £100 compensation because it misled Mr S 
about the sending out of an assessor.
Lloyds disagreed that in Mr S waiting for his claim to be presented before underwriters to 
determine if there was an insured event would have caused such a degree of upset and 
annoyance that this equates to a further award of £100.00. It didnt think the time taken to 
reach a decision was inappropriate in any event.
Mr S felt that having paid him compensation Lloyds was clearly in the wrong so should have 
paid his claim. If hed known from the start the claim wouldnt be covered hed have bought a 
£1,000 carpet instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisionally I made the following findings:
The first point I have to make is that the onus is on the policyholder to show that an 
insured event most likely caused the damage. If it seems on the face of it that that its 
likely that an insured event occurred the insurer will if needed send out an assessor or 
loss adjuster.
Having considered the transcripts of the phone calls I think the claims adviser in the first 
phone call was trying to assist Mr S. He had said his joiner could come out and hoped 
that he could repair the damage, in which case he wouldnt need to make a claim. The 
adviser said she could note the damage as an enquiry and then Mr S could go ahead 
and ask his joiner to look at the repairs needed. If Mr S came back and made a claim he 
should provide photos of the damage.
I dont think at that stage that the claim had been considered one way or the other. If a 
decision had been made not to send out an assessor because the claim didnt come 
under an insured event then Mr S wasnt told that. But I dont think he was misled into 
having any work done on the floor. He had made it clear that the hump in the floor was 
a trip hazard and that his joiner would be uplifting it to see if he could repair it. Even if 
hed been told straight away that there was no claim to be made (which would perhaps 
have been premature without the joiners report and photos) I think Mr S would still have 
needed to go ahead to have the damaged section of floor uplifted. He made it clear in 
the later telephone call with Lloyds that he hadnt at that stage had the work carried out 
as quoted for by the joiner.
The purpose of an assessor would be to verify a claim, not to find out whether was a 
possible claim. As I dont think Mr S was prejudiced by the advice, I think the payment 
of £100 for misleading him about the reason for declining the claim was reasonable. 
But I do think that Lloyds also misled Mr S about the sending out of an assessor. I 
dont think it had decided in the first claims call that there wasnt an insurance event 
and so wouldnt send out an assessor. Rather it decided that later when it got Mr Ss 
claim. Whilst that didnt in my view prejudice him, I think it would have caused Mr S 
further upset and annoyance. He felt hed done the right thing in advising Lloyds about 
the claim in the first place. I think it should pay Mr S compensation of a further £100.
Mr Ss policy isnt all risks which would essentially mean that all claims are covered 
unless a specific exclusion applies. It is a policy of defined insured events which is the 
usual type of home insurance. The policyholder has to show that the damage claimed for 
most likely comes under one of the insured events. And if Mr S had been able to show it came under such an event, because Lloyds left him to get the damage looked at by his 
joiner it would have had to rely on what the joiner said.
The only possible insured event Mr S could claim under was accidental damage. This 
is defined by the policy as:
Unexpected and unintended damage caused by something sudden and external.
I think that has to be something sudden, the examples given are hammering a nail into a 
pipe or smashing a window. In this case I cant see how the floor bowing because of high 
temperatures is something that happened suddenly. Mr S described it as taking place 
over a week or so and gradually getting worse. The joiner said, I can only put this down 
to the change in the temperature in the summer. The bowing appeared to be along the 
whole length of the room. No leak had apparently occurred and Mr S has said the joiner 
said there may have been loose floorboards under the laid floor. Lloyds also cited the 
exclusion for:
Any loss or damage that does not arise from one identifiable event which directly 
and immediately caused the loss or damage.
That would also in my view apply, I dont think the damage has been shown to arise 
from a single identifiable event. I also dont think its covered as accidental damage as 
defined in the policy.
For the above reasons I dont propose to uphold Mr Ss complaint, save to say that 
Lloyds should pay him a further £100 compensation as Ive set out above.
I said Lloyds should pay the further £100 for misleading Mr S about its reasons for not 
sending out an assessor. It didnt tell him in the first claims call that there was no 
insurance event, which it could have done. Rather it said he could go ahead and have 
his joiner look at the damage. Whilst it didnt say the claim would be paid it did lead into 
Mr S misunderstanding the situation. Its for that reason, not for any delay, that I think 
Lloyds should pay a further £100. 
I understand Mr Ss point. But an insurer can still be made to pay compensation even if the 
claim isnt ultimately paid. As regards what he would have done, he had agreed that his 
joiner would investigate what the problem was. He had no expectation at that stage that he 
would be claiming, as he hoped to resolve it. When he contacted Lloyds later and was told 
the claim wouldnt be paid he made it clear he hadnt had the work done, so he wasnt 
prejudiced.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Society of Lloyds to pay Mr S a further 
£100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman