DRN-3058460
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Ltd failed to properly inform him of 
the availability of enhanced annuities or the option to shop around for a better annuity. And 
that when Prudential reviewed his case they failed to properly compensate him for its 
mistake.
What happened
In 2008 Mr C had used his Prudential pensions to purchase two separate annuities. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) launched a review of non-advised annuity sales 
practices in 2015 and published its results in 2016. This was the FCAs Thematic review 
16/7. It was concerned with whether pension providers were giving customers enough 
information, about the availability of enhanced or impaired life annuities or the option to shop 
around, for them to make informed choices. A consequence of this review was that some 
firms were asked to review non-advised annuity sales from 2008. Prudential was one of 
those firms. 
As a result of the FCA directive, Prudential contacted Mr C to review the sale of the two 
annuities hed taken with them in 2008. Mr C responded and provided a health and lifestyle 
questionnaire in August 2019. Prudentials initial assessment was that the sale of the 
annuities was compliant and that it didnt need to do anything further.
Mr C complained to Prudential because he didnt agree that theyd properly considered his 
medical circumstances. And that he wasnt sure how hed chosen his annuity purchase.
Prudential responded by explaining that Mr C had completed a medical questionnaire for 
one of his annuities in 2008 and was already in receipt of an enhanced annuity for that one. 
But the larger of Mr Cs two annuities was set up using a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR), 
which was higher than the enhanced annuity that Prudential offered at the time. But 
Prudential agreed that, because of the uncertainty of Mr Cs recollections of the point of sale, 
it would calculate if redress was due.
On 20 December 2019 Prudential contacted Mr C to confirm that it had concluded its review. 
The review found that Mr C wasnt made properly aware of his options so should have been 
in receipt of a higher annuity. The redress calculation informed Mr C that both of his 
annuities would be uplifted, and he would be paid compensation for his lost income plus 
interest.
Mr C complained to Prudential that he was unhappy with the amount of redress hed 
received and didnt think that the increase in his annuity was high enough or that all of his 
medical conditions had been taken into consideration. He also complained about the time 
taken and service hed received.
Prudential didnt uphold this complaint. It thought that itd considered Mr Cs case in 
accordance with their agreement with the FCA. It believed that Mr Cs medical history had 
been considered and the redress calculations complied with the FCA directive. Prudential 
explained that the redress calculation had been done by independent actuaries and included 
historical information relating to open market annuity rates to compare what he had received 
from Prudential with what could have been available. Prudential offered Mr C £75 in 
compensation in recognition of the time taken to complete the assessment of his annuities 
and the service Mr C received.
Mr C was unhappy with Prudentials explanation and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt uphold it. He thought that the way that Prudential had 
handled the review of Mr Cs annuities was fair an didnt think they needed to do anything 
else. Mr C didnt agree and this case has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C will be disappointed but Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I can understand the frustration that Mr C had with his experience of this review process. Im 
not sure that the way Prudential communicated the timescales and the outcome helped Mr C 
accept the result. But the main crux of the complaint is whether Mr C was treated fairly 
regarding his annuity purchases in 2008, and if not, has enough been done to put things 
right.
The outcome of Prudentials review of Mr Cs annuities indicates that there were, more likely 
than not, failings in the process. So I dont need to explore or comment further on that. What 
Ive need to address is whether Prudential have put things right in a fair or reasonable way.
They have contracted out the task of calculating redress to independent actuaries who they 
explain have carried out the redress calculation in accordance with FCA guidance. I think 
that this is a fair way to seek to put things right. I know that Mr C has been told that our 
service cannot carry out independent calculations to check the result he was given. But I 
have looked at the questionnaires that Mr C and his wife completed to enable the review to 
be done. And can see that the assumptions used for the redress calculations match the 
information that was provided. So Ive seen no evidence that would cause me to think that 
the redress outcome that Mr C was given was flawed.
I have considered why Mr C thinks the outcome is too low. He has searched the internet and 
has compared his outcome with what he thinks are the average outcome for other 
consumers who have been through this process. Each individual case has to be considered 
on its own merits though. So comparisons like the one Mr C has made are difficult and often 
unhelpful. For instance, Mr Cs existing annuities werent based on ordinary open market 
rates. One of his annuities had a GAR so was likely already a higher annuity than may have 
been available on the open market without enhancements. His other annuity had already 
been enhanced by Prudential, even though that enhancement may not have been as 
valuable as available on the open market. So the percentage increases in his annuities is 
more a reflection of the original annuity values and is less important than the final value 
offered. And Ive seen no evidence to cause me to believe that the corrected enhanced 
annuities are incorrect.
The time taken by Prudential to complete the process plus the fact that he didnt get this 
answer in the first place will have been inconvenient for Mr C. But for about 11 years prior to 
being contacted about a review of his annuities, Mr C had no reason for concern about his 
annuity levels. So I think any uncertainty that he experienced about his future income levels was short. Prudential have apologised and paid Mr C £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the process. Which I think was a fair offer and I wont be suggesting Prudential do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman