DRN-3840777
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with a claim she sought to bring 
against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Miss S was living and working abroad. As her contracts were ending, shed booked a flight 
home to the UK with an airline, J. Unfortunately, Miss Ss flight booking was affected by the 
Covid-19 pandemic and J stopped flights for a lengthy period. Miss S made attempts to 
rebook but these flights were also cancelled.
As a result Miss S remained abroad for around three months longer than anticipated, 
incurring additional accommodation and other subsistence costs. Miss S tried to recover 
these from J, referencing obligations she considered it had to her under Regulation (EC) No 
261/2004 (EC261). J wasnt forthcoming with payment so Miss S turned to Santander to 
see if she could obtain settlement from her credit card provider.
Santander raised a chargeback of the original payment and credited that amount to Miss S 
account. It said it didnt think Miss S had a valid section 75 claim, saying her situation wasnt 
covered by that legislation. The banks response mentioned that Js terms and conditions 
excluded liability for situations beyond the airlines control. Santander suggested Miss S take 
up the matter of her costs with her insurer and that she might be entitled to reimbursement 
under the airline industry delays compensation scheme.
Miss S wasnt happy with Santanders response and complained to it. She was further 
unhappy that Santander had raised a chargeback, saying that this would affect her 
entitlement under EC261. The bank wasnt willing to change its position in respect of the 
claim. But it acknowledged it had delayed dealing with matters. It paid Miss S £75 
compensation, with a further £100 later credited in recognition of its handling of matters. 
However, Miss S remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to us.
Although this referral was made more than six months after Santander first provided Miss S 
with referral rights to our service, the bank has consented to us considering matters. Our 
investigator proceeded to deal with the complaint, concluding that Santander didnt need to 
do anything further to resolve matters. She found that the bank was entitled to raise a 
chargeback in light of the flight cancellations, and wasnt persuaded that this had adversely 
affected Miss Ss underlying claim for her out-of-pocket costs.
The investigator didnt think Santander was liable to Miss S for those costs, either under the 
booking terms and conditions or the provisions of EC261. She was satisfied the payments 
the bank made in respect of its overall handling of the claim were appropriate and a fair way 
to resolve the complaint.
Miss S hasnt accepted the investigators conclusions. She disputes that a refund of the 
original payment was ever made, and maintains she didnt seek to dispute that transaction 
as it would potentially damage her claim. Miss S says the investigator misread the provisions 
of EC261, under which her Article 8 and 9 rights were unaffected by the reasons given for 
the flight cancellation.
She considers J failed to meet its obligations under EC261, and that this constitutes  
among other things  a breach of certain sections of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA2015), giving rise to a breach of contract claim that she is able to pursue against 
Santander.
In line with Miss Ss request, the dispute has been passed to me for review and 
determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing this complaint Ive thought about how Santander has dealt with Miss Ss request 
for reimbursement and whether the bank has had due regard for any liability it might have 
towards Miss S by virtue of providing the mechanism by which she made payment to J.
Both Santander and Miss S appear to agree that the bank could have handled matters rather 
better than it did. Santander has acknowledged this, and has paid Miss S £175 in 
compensation to reflect inconvenience she experienced due to delays and poor handling. 
Like the investigator, Im satisfied thats a fair way to address those aspects.
Miss S has sought to bring a claim against Santander under section 75. As the investigator 
explained, section 75 is a provision of the Consumer Credit Act that creates a mechanism by 
which Miss S might be able to pursue a claim against Santander for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by J.
For section 75 to apply, the transaction arrangements need to be financed by a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement between Miss S, J and Santander. Im satisfied the necessary 
arrangements exist between the parties in this case.
There is also a provision that requires that the claim relates to any single item to which J 
attached a cash price of more than £100 but less than £30,000. Whether this requirement is 
met is less clear; the invoice Miss S received from J shows individually costed items  the 
flight itself, a specified seat booking, and baggage charge  each of which is less than £100. 
While that isnt the basis on which Santander has sought to decline Miss Ss claim, I can see 
it might well be a material factor in whether it would be successful.
However, its possible the invoice simply breaks down the individual elements of the contract 
as a whole. So Ive gone on to consider whether Miss S has a claim in breach of contract. 
Theres no suggestion here of any misrepresentation aspect to her claim.
I fully understand the points Miss S has made in relation to the obligations an airline has 
under EC261, and the reasoning shes given over why the extraordinary circumstances (or 
force majeure) exclusion doesnt apply to claims made under Article 8 or 9 of those 
regulations. I also appreciate Miss S has placed great emphasis on this aspect and the fact 
the provisions of those articles underpin her claim against J.
I dont think its in dispute that she has a claim against J in respect of its adherence to those 
provisions. The issue at hand here is whether that claim against J can properly be held to be 
one she also has against Santander. Because of the way section 75 is constructed, this can 
only be the case if her claim is one of breach of contract.The relevant articles of EC261 arent automatically incorporated or implied into the contract 
between Miss S and J. The regulations dont make that provision. And the agreement itself 
doesnt include terms or conditions setting out a contractual responsibility on Js part to 
provide additional benefits in the event of delay or cancellation. It only references that she 
has statutory rights conferred on her by EC261.
Articles 8 and 9 of EC261 require passengers to be offered free of charge meals, 
refreshments, hotel accommodation and/or transfers between airport and accommodation, 
as well as the right to reimbursement or rerouting. As Ive noted, the right to be offered such 
benefits is a statutory one, rather than arising under the contract. It follows that a failure to 
provide that statutory benefit is not a breach of contract and so doesnt itself give rise to a 
section 75 claim. In my view the situation is equivalent to that considered by the Court of 
Appeal in Cooper v The Freedom Travel Group and Bank of Scotland [2022]  EWCA Civ 
1557. 
Im conscious Miss S has suggested that Js failure to address her statutory right amounts to 
a breach of certain provisions of the CRA 2015. Shes specifically referenced sections 57 
and 49 in this respect. And the CRA2015 does imply terms into the contract.
Section 57 has the effect of limiting the situations in which a trader can exclude or restrict its 
liability to a consumer under the statutory rights they are afforded by the CRA2015. Some of 
those rights arent relevant to this case, such as the provisions around price and time, and 
information about the trader or service. But Miss Ss argument is that her claim is based on 
one of those CRA2015 rights, as set out in section 49.
Section 49(1) provides: Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a 
term that the trader must perform the service with reasonable care and skill.  Under that 
section, the service that must be provided with reasonable skill and care is the service that 
contract says is to be supplied.  
In this case, the relevant service was the provision of the flight. Unless the contract also 
made it a term that the travel provider will provide the benefits to which the passenger is 
anyway entitled under the EC261 (which was not the case here), those benefits are not 
services that the travel provider has contracted to supply. It follows that J has no contractual 
obligation under section 49 to use reasonable care and skill in relation to providing those 
benefits and doesnt breach its contract by not providing them, whether with reasonable skill 
and care or at all.
Taking all of this into account, I find that Santander has not acted unfairly towards Miss S in 
declining to accept her claim in breach of contract. The banks response, while containing 
rather less detail than Ive set out here, argues that her claim was not one covered by 
section 75. Even if it was inappropriate to cite exclusions within Js terms and conditions 
relating to force majeure in the context of a claim that wasnt based on the flight 
cancellations, I must recognise that the bank was not relying solely on those exclusions to 
decline the claim.
The remaining issue is that of the banks decision to raise a chargeback in relation to the 
original payment. I can see that Miss Ss account was credited with the amount of this 
transaction in 2020. Although I note Miss S has expressed concern that the bank raised the 
chargeback not at her request, it was a legitimate action for Santander to take in light of the 
flight cancellations, the time-limited window in which it is able to raise chargeback, and the 
possibility that it might be liable to reimburse this cost. A card provider doesnt need the 
agreement of a card holder to instigate a chargeback claim.
I do note that on several occasions Miss S expressed concerns to Santander that taking this action might harm her claim under her EC261 rights. I would expect the bank to take this 
possibility into account when considering whether to raise a chargeback. However, Ive not 
seen any persuasive evidence that the bank taking this action has had any impact on Js 
willingness to deal with Miss Ss claim.
Js position throughout seems to have been that it had little if any regard for its potential 
obligations under the articles Miss S has cited. So I cant properly say that Santanders 
action in raising the chargeback has caused her loss for which the bank should compensate 
her. Although the possibility remains that J may reference this in any claim Miss S might 
bring against it, I would also note that she is able to point to correspondence with Santander 
that makes clear that such action was not taken at her behest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my decision is that Santander UK Plc doesnt need to take 
any further action to deal with Miss Ss complaint. Im satisfied that the payments it has 
already made, totalling £175, are a fair way to resolve matters.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman