DRN-3064807
The complaint
 Ms S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to make reasonable 
adjustments she requested to meet her needs and have failed to send her information under 
a GDPR request. 
 
What happened
 Ms S brought her concerns to us as she was unhappy when Barclays didnt respond to her 
complaint. She told us the main issue was Barclays continued to send her communication in 
small font when shed requested large font communication. Ms S requires all documents to 
be adjusted into large font print as her vision is impaired due to a number of health 
conditions.
Ms S said Barclays had also failed to comply with her request not to send text alerts at 
certain times and had instead disabled the text alert service completely. She was also 
unhappy that Barclays hadnt dealt with her Subject Access Request form October 2019 
SAR in time. She said when they did send her the documents it was in small font so had to 
be reissued by the bank multiple times in March, June and September 2020, but ultimately 
as all of these bundles were also in small font, they werent useable. Ms S told us said these 
delays and failings to use large font had meant shed missed the deadlines to claim under 
the direct debit indemnity and to take Barclays failings in respect of the SAR to court. So, Ms 
S thinks shes lost out and ought to be compensated.
Barclays responded to the complaint sending several final responses both before and after 
out investigators view. Initially on 19 October 2019 they didnt uphold complaint about timing 
of text messages, Ms S made a SAR following this. And she also raised a direct debit 
indemnity claim around this time and complained that although shed asked for the forms to 
progress this to be sent in large font, they were sent to her in small font. 
During our investigation, on 18 June 2020, Barclays responded to the concerns about the 
delay in sending out the SAR in large print. They said, overall, they thought theyd dealt with 
Ms Ss complaint in a fair and reasonable manner in offering £150, at that stage of our 
investigation, for the delays incurred. They told us theyd sent documents to Ms S in 
response to her SAR twice, on 16 December 2019 and again on 7 February 2020 after Ms S 
told them the first hadnt been delivered. Barclays records showed the courier had no 
response on delivery so left a calling card on both visits. On both occasions there was no 
response to the calling card, so the documents were destroyed. Barclays said they were 
aware of Ms Ss customers visual impairment issue and had markers in place to alert staff to 
this and issue Large Print correspondence. Barclays also said theyd issued a visual 
impaired Debit Card during August 2019 to assist Ms S. Barclays said as Ms S waited a long 
time for them to review her concerns after the complaint was reopened and the receipt of 
information was not in large print so they offered to pay a further £150.00 compensation to 
Ms S. They also offered re send the SAR bundle and the direct debit indemnity form in large 
print. 
In addition to this Barclays confirmed a large print SAR was requested 6 May 2020 and 
apologised if the request was printed as small print, they offered to resend as Large Print but 
also suggested, in light of previous delivery issues, a quicker alternative would be to issue 
the information online which would enable Ms S to view the SAR as a PDF on screen and 
magnify the pages to her requirements. Ms S later told us this wasnt a suitable option due to 
a deterioration in her condition.
On 30 June 2020 in response to the other aspects of Ms Ss complaints Barclays told us 
they arranged for another direct debit indemnity form to be sent in large print but due to 
Covid 19, there might be delays in the receipt of this request as some of their overseas 
departments were closed and said they had already arranged for Ms Ss records to be 
updated to reflect large print in future. Barclays sent a screenshot showing markers for large 
print required. But they said this could only be tested when a form of correspondence is 
issued moving forward and asked to be advised if further letters are received in small print. 
They also said, if an advisor sent an ad hoc letter to Ms S, they would be reliant on the 
member of staff to refer to this Large Print marker on her records for them then to despatch 
manually as large print automated communication.
In respect of the text messages Barclay said they were still in place, but any collections 
contact was suspended whilst a complaint was ongoing. They said alerts were issued in real 
time between 07.30 and 18.30 and any outside this time were held overnight. They were 
unable to delay the sending of messages as it may place vulnerable customers at higher risk 
of incurring charges and would be contrary to their regulatory obligation to let customers 
know as soon as possible that they are within an overdrawn position. Barclays suggested as 
a workaround Ms S adjusted her central phone device settings  and they could help her 
with this if required - to put her phone on silent or do not disturb overnight. She could then 
review the alerts at her preferred time in the morning, so she wont be disturbed in the night.
Our investigator thought Barclays increased offer of compensation was a fair remedy for the 
complaint points Ms S had highlighted. In respect of the SAR he couldnt say the delay in 
receiving the documents was due to an error from Barclays as theyd sent the documents on 
multiple occasions in December 2019, February and May 2020. But our investigator 
acknowledged Barclays accepted they could have responded to this complaint faster and 
had made a mistake when the third set of documents in May 2020 were delivered in small 
print. 
He thought Barclays couldve done more to assist Ms S and ensure all correspondence was 
sent to her in large print. After apologising, sending a hamper and paying £50 in October 
2019 for sending forms in small print Ms S again received the Indemnity form and other 
pieces of correspondence in small print  although her statements were in large print. The 
investigator thought Barclays had taken steps to resend the indemnity form and ensure this 
didnt happen in the future.
In respect of the text alerts the investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong by 
sending alerts in their normal business hours. And he thought their suggestion of adjusting 
phone settings to do not disturb function overnight was a reasonable solution and Barclays 
willingness to give assistance to do this was a fair resolution to the issue.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators view. She thought the investigator hadnt considered or 
mentioned the Equality Act 2010 and that was due to an absence of knowledge on his part. 
She didnt think the recommended award of £150 was in line with the compensation 
awarded under the act. She thought at the very least Barclays should commit to further 
training and consider compensation in the region of £2500 which would clear her overdraft 
and remove her account from collections. She told us she had sufficient money in her 
savings account to clear the overdraft, but she wished to convey a message to Barclays.Ms Ss later contacted us to advise she still hadnt received the SAR bundle in large print. 
Shed had further contact with Barclays in October 2020 about the SAR bundles being sent 
again in small print. Barclays wrote to her on 23 October 2020 upholding this further 
complaint, apologising for the inconvenience and crediting her account with a further £150 
compensation. They also said they had made a request with the RNIB to ensure that letter 
and the SAR was in large print. Barclays wrote again on 16 November 2020, after Ms S 
called them to report the further SAR bundle, theyd sent had been delivered but was again 
in small print and the courier delivering it had damaged her door. Barclays upheld the 
complaint, and paid Ms S a goodwill gesture of £120 for the repairs to her door. They also 
credited her account with £100 as a way of apology for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this issue. They also told Ms S they were in touch with the GDPR team and were 
asking again that the request was sent in large print.
Ms S tells us that the SAR request in large font has still not arrived. And the large print direct 
debit indemnity first requested back in October 2019 which Barclays said in June 2020 
during out investigation would be resent in large font hadnt arrived. Ms S thinks Barclays 
should now refund her the amount she wished to challenge under the direct debit indemnity 
in October 2019 as she believes she is now no longer able to challenge this due to the 
passage of time.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2021 in which I thought there were three 
elements.
Fulfilling the SAR in large print/font size
On balance, I thought, without seeing any extracts from the bundles Ms S received, from 
what Barclays had told us I wasnt satisfied the large print requests theyd made wouldve 
resulted in the bundles going in large font to Ms S. Nor was I satisfied the SAR bundles had 
been provided in the increased font size over 16. So, to put things right I proposed directing 
that Barclays resend the SAR bundle to Ms S in font size 18.
Sending the Direct Debit Indemnity form in large print/font
I hadnt seen anything form Barclays to show this was sent to Ms S as promised. I thought it 
was vital for Barclays to confirm in response to my provisional decision to confirm whether it 
was still possible for Ms S to pursue this DDI claim. So, I proposed directing Barclays to both 
confirm it was still possible to pursue this particular Direct Debit Indemnity claim and, if so, to 
send the form in large font 18.
text alerts
I didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in sending the text alerts inside the business 
hours specified. And, I thought the suggestion of Ms S putting her phone on silent, do not 
disturb or sleep mode, in the hours she doesnt wish to be disturbed, is a reasonable 
workaround to the problem she faced.  So, I didnt plan to uphold this part of her complaint.
Ms S sent us scanned copies of the SAR requests she made that had arrived in small print. 
She set out the legal responsibilities on Barclays to respond to her SAR request. And told us 
Barclays had failed on a number of occasions to meet this, and it was a result of their 
consistent non compliance with her previous request that the SAR was made to see what 
markers and actions theyd put in place to address her repeated request of communication in 
large font.
She told us she concurred with my view that providing documents on A3 paper does not 
automatically enlarge them. And this was proven in the SAR received on 2nd July and 18th November 2020 both of which were provided on A3, however neither being in large font. She 
said in the one received on 2nd July 2020 the A3 paper was folded into half so each side 
was used as a A4. And that received on 18th November 2020 the A3 is used per page
but there is no enlargement to the correct size.
She thought it was reasonable to question if Barclays were really interested in addressing 
the matter as after being told the first two SARs in May and June 2020 were being sent in 
incorrect font that they shouldve examined what the underlying issues and made efforts to 
address this. She told us she was of of the view Barclays hadnt taken this matter seriously 
over a period of in excess of two years theyd continued time after time to fail to meet her
reasonable adjustment request. And to her this meant they werent taking their Equality Duty 
seriously. She told us she now understood it is for the court to make a determination if the 
law was broken and award compensation accordingly in line with her request. But she asked 
this service to look at our compensation awards on the whole, not just for her case but for 
any discrimination case and ask that their awards are reflective of the Vento scheme.
Ms S told us a Letter Before Action had been sent to Barclays Bank - and copied to this 
service - a number of weeks ago which hadnt yet been acknowledged by the bank. She 
thought a clear message ought to be sent to Barclays as the very small payments awarded 
hadnt been a deterrent. She was of the view that the only way to send a strong message 
would be a hefty award. And she asked if accepting the redress of £250 would still allow her 
to pursue the matter through the courts.
Barclays told us in respect of the direction to issue the Direct Debit Indemnity form in large 
font size 18 they should be able to do this but would have to send it manually. They later 
confirmed this had been done and Ms S confirmed to us that she now has the form. Barclays 
asked for this form to be returned within 14 days. Ms S tells us she honestly doesnt know 
when she will be able to complete the form as she has multiple accounts with the payee and 
needs to access these to complete the form. More recently Barclays have told us they were 
liaising with the RNIB to get the SAR in large font. And within the last week Barclays told us 
they were still waiting for confirmation from RNIB that they would assist them in their request 
for large print SAR and had been advised there can be a slow response.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered the points both parties have made in response to my provisional findings. 
Its unclear from their response whether Barclays have accepted my finding and directions 
on the actions theyve been asked to take. Their silence to my comment - that it was vital for 
them to confirm whether the indemnity can still be perused - is unhelpful. But theyve sent 
the form in the correct font and its now with Ms S. So, I dont think its unreasonable to 
assume the indemnity in question can still be pursued. I appreciate Ms Ss current difficulties 
in giving a timeline on when she can complete the form - but its in neither parties interests to 
leave the time to submit this open ended. Barclays have said 14 days from the date it was 
sent. Given the time that has passed I would suggest its reasonable for the form to be 
completed and returned within 14 days of this final decsion.
I appreciate Barclays are waiting for a response from the RNIB. But they havent explained 
why theyre dependant on help from the RNIB to provide the SAR in the font requested. So, 
its difficult for me to know how reasonable this further delay is. Barclay havent - either at 
any point in the past or in response to my provisional decision - suggested the adjustments 
are unreasonable or theyve been unable to accommodate the request. Theyve now been 
aware of my thoughts on this and the proposed direction since 16 August 2020, almost six weeks. So, even acknowledging the delays with the RNIB I think its reasonable to require 
them to provide the SAR within 14 days of this decision. That will have given Barclays 
approximately eight weeks to comply which, in the absence of any explanation from them for 
the delays internally or from a third party, I think is reasonable.  
Im grateful to Ms S for sending us scanned copies of some of the documents which show 
the SARs she received werent in the correct font. On the question of damages Ms S has 
again referred me to the legislation and the Vento damages awarded by the court but theres 
no new information here. So, whilst I can see she feels strongly about this Im afraid the 
repetition of her points alone doesnt change my findings. 
Overall theres nothing before me which changes my substantive findings in this complaint. 
So, other than the slight alterations to the timings of my directions as explained above, I 
dont see any reason to alter my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think the following should now take place
Barclays Bank UK PLC send the information under the SAR from October 2019 to 
Ms S in large font size 18 within 14 days from the date of this decision or sooner if 
possible.
Barclays Bank UK PLC confirm that it is still possible to make a direct debit indemnity 
claim in respect of the payment of £549 on 3 October 2019, the claim form for which 
should be returned to Barclays Bank UK PLC within 14 days of the date of the final 
decision.
In addition to the compensation already paid Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay a 
further £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in failing to 
provide the indemnity form and the SAR in the correct font size.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct the following
1. Barclays Bank UK PLC send the information under the SAR from October 
2019 to Ms S in large font size 18 within 14 days from the date of this 
decision or sooner if possible.
2. Barclays Bank UK PLC confirm that it is still possible to make a direct debit 
indemnity claim in respect of the payment of £549 on 3 October 2019, the 
claim form for which should be returned to Barclays Bank UK PLC within 14 
days of the date of the final decision.
3. In addition to the compensation already paid Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
pay a further £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in failing to provide the indemnity form and the SAR in the correct font size.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman