DRN-2074821
The complaint
Miss D says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss D bought the policy in 2000 in connection with a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Miss D says she wasnt given any information about the PPI when she bought it, 
and that AXA didnt give her a proper choice about taking it out. She thinks its likely 
she signed the application form where she was told to by the store assistant. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss D and 
AXA when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But I can see from Miss Ds store application form that she signed to show she wanted 
the cover. And there were other forms of cover available for the card, but it seems Miss 
D decided not to take those. So on balance I think Miss D wouldve realised she had 
a choice about whether or not to take the PPI. 
From what Ive seen and been told, I havent been able to safely conclude that AXA 
didnt make Miss D aware that the policy was optional.
 AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Miss D had to 
cover her repayments.
 Its possible the information AXA gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Miss D would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Miss D mentioned shes had a refund of premiums in connection with the sale of another 
PPI policy in similar circumstances. Ive noted what Miss D has said, but as the adjudicator 
explained, we assess each complaint according to its own facts and the particular product 
sold. Having taken that approach for this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained Im not 
persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman