DRN-3435622
The complaint
Mr R complains about two loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which he says were unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr R with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Instalment Amount Instalments
1 February 2019 68.57 300.00 18 months
2 December 2019 170.38 745.48 18 months
Loan 2 was a top up, in that some of that loan was used to repay the balance of Loan 1. 
Loan 2 still has an outstanding balance to repay. 
Mr R says he feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to him on each 
occasion.
 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks for loans 1-2?
I can see that on each occasion, Loans 2 Go asked Mr R about his income and expenditure. 
It has told our service that it adjusted Mr Rs income and expenditure based on an online 
verification tool for his income, and its own calculations using what it had in front of it for 
expenditure. It says it made its calculations about Mr Rs expenditure by using what it saw in 
his credit report on each occasion and also added a buffer of 10% for any unexpected 
spend.  
For loan 1, It reduced Mr Rs declared income from £1499 a month to £1473.80 after 
verifying this. It then increased what Mr R says his expenditure was of £680, to £1255.23, 
based on checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for 
any fluctuations in spend for Mr R. 
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Mr Rs 
disposable income when it agreed to loan 1. I dont think its checks were proportionate for 
this loan because there was a discrepancy between what Mr R said in particular about his 
expenditure and what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should 
have accepted the loan knowing or having reason to suspect Mr R wasnt being accurate 
about his expenditure in this case. In this instance the discrepancy between what Mr R said 
his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it was, was quite wide. So, I think 
Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks to see if there were good reasons 
for this, or its shouldnt have provided Mr R with the loan. This leads me to think that Loans 2 
Go needed to take additional steps to verify what Mr Rs actual monthly expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr R with loan 1 was reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr R 
would need to meet his loan repayments over 18 months.
I can see that it was a similar outcome when Loans 2 Go considered Mr Rs application for 
loans 2 also. The expenditure amount that Mr R declared for loan 2 was £630 and Loans 2 
Go revised his expenditure to £986.26. Again, there is quite a discrepancy between what Mr 
R said his expenditure was and what Loans 2 Go calculated it to be after it used a credit 
search. I think again it should have carried out further checks at this point to find out more 
about Mr Rs expenditure and carry out a complete review of his finances for much the same 
reasons I have given for why it should have done this for loan 1.
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for both loans, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. What would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown for loans 1-2?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 1 and 2 were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr R would 
have been unable to sustainably repay his loans.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr R could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr R has provided for the months leading up to his applications for the loans. Mr R has 
provided bank statements for November to January 2019 and also September to November 
2019. Having looked through these, its clear Mr R was gambling significant amounts of 
money at the time he asked for both loans and he was relying on short term lending to cover 
a shortfall in his finances. For the months leading up to loan 1 being granted for example, Mr 
R had spent £315 in November 2018, £635 in December 2018 and £875 in January 2019. 
He borrowed £1144, £1232 and £998 in short term loans in November 2018, December 
2018 and January 2019 respectively leading up to him asking for this loan. He made a total 
of 33 transactions to short term loan providers in only 3 months. This level of usage in short 
term lending did not improve by the time he asked for loan 2 and neither did his gambling 
expenditure. 
In these circumstances, it is apparent to me that Mr R was unlikely to have been able to 
repay the two loans without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. It is clear 
from what I have seen that Mr R was spending significant sums of money on gambling and 
was having problems managing his finances. And this was the case leading up to him asking 
for loans 1 and 2.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr R would not have been able to 
sustainably repay these loans. So, Im satisfied that L2Gs failure to carry out proportionate 
checks resulted in it unfairly providing these two loans to Mr R.
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right with loans 1-2 for the reasons given above.I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr R and L2G have responded and both have no further 
comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for each loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:
add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of being given loans 1-2. 
The payments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr R was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr R to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Rs credit file because of loans 1-2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Loans to Go Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman