DRN-4005847
The complaint
Mr V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his account without notice or explanation, 
which left him unable to access his funds. Hed like an adequate amount of compensation for 
the disruption to his life.
What happened
Mr V lives abroad but holds various accounts with Lloyds including savings and a current 
account.
Around February 2020 Mr V tried to access the funds in his account but discovered the 
account had been blocked. He says he tried to call Lloyds, but the phone lines were 
inundated because of the pandemic. When he did get through, he was told he would need to 
attend branch, which he couldnt do because of travel restrictions. A close friend of his 
delivered letters explaining the situation to a branch, but the blocks remained in place. He 
received a response from the branch manager, but emails were sent to an incorrect email 
address for him. He found an email address for complaints on a leaflet, but this turned out to 
only be related to mortgages.
Finally, in May 2021 Mr V managed to raise a complaint with Lloyds. The bank couldnt find 
a reason for the block on the account, as there were no notes left. They removed the blocks, 
and apologised to Mr V. They also paid £500 compensation to him. Mr V wasnt satisfied 
with this outcome, so referred the complaint to our service. He explained that he had been 
left without access to funds for a considerable period, and this had meant hed been forced 
to subsist on a very limited income. He also said that he had missed out on the opportunity 
to reinvest the funds he held in savings.
One of our investigators looked into what happened but felt the offer from Lloyds of £500 
was reasonable. They accepted Lloyds hadnt been able to explain why Mr Vs accounts 
were blocked in the first place, and that Lloyds should have escalated the situation earlier. 
But they said they couldnt see any record of contact between Mr V and Lloyds between 
June 2020 and April 2021. They considered whether Lloyds should make a further award for 
not having access to the funds, but felt that as Mr V hadnt made any transfers to the country 
he was living in until considerably after the account was unblocked they werent minded to 
make any further award. Overall, they felt the £500 was along the lines of what they would 
have suggested.
Mr V disagreed, saying that he hadnt made any transfers after the account was unblocked 
because he had savings in a third country  but these were difficult to access because this 
country operated a closed currency, and were also under strict Covid restrictions. But in 
September 2020 he had been able to access some of these funds and ease the immediate 
burden on him. This explained why he didnt need to make an immediate transfer when the 
account was unblocked. But he said up until this point he had been living in serious financial 
hardship.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. After 
reviewing the evidence, I felt there was more Lloyds should do. I issued a provisional 
decision which said:
Lloyds havent been able to demonstrate exactly why Mr Vs account was blocked, although 
they have offered some speculative reasons. Without a clear record of why the blocks were 
applied to Mr Vs accounts I cant reasonably conclude that it was fair or reasonable to do 
so. Lloyds chose to remove these quickly once they looked into the matter, so I dont see 
there were any underlying issues that should have prevented Mr V from accessing his funds.
Ive also reviewed the communication between Mr V and Lloyds, and Im satisfied that the 
bank should have been more responsive to his problem a lot earlier than they were. I can 
see he was in communication by March 2020. I accept the bank may have been wary of 
unsigned letters delivered to the branch by third parties. But it would have been fairer for the 
bank to look into these issues and try to resolve them with Mr V. I can see there is a note on 
Lloyds system on 12 June 2020 about a letter sent regarding removal of block from the 
account.
This demonstrates to me that at this point Lloyds were satisfied it was genuinely Mr V trying 
to get the blocks removed from his account. But there doesnt seem to be any further action 
taken after this point. I would have expected the bank to be more proactive at this point, 
considering what Mr V had already described of his situation, and in the context of the 
pandemic. I dont see this as a reasonable response at the time, and Im satisfied this 
unreasonably delayed his accounts being unblocked beyond June 2020.
Mr V has commented about not being able to reinvest the funds he held with Lloyds in 
savings. But I can also see from the account history that these funds had been sitting with 
Lloyds for some time, even before the blocks were applied. Im satisfied then that Mr V didnt 
have any significant plans to reinvest these immediately, and it would be fair for them to 
continue to earn the account interest rate.
The money held in the current account doesnt attract interest. And I think it likely that these 
funds Mr V would have transferred to the country he lives in to support himself. As hes been 
deprived of the use of these funds, I think awarding 8% simple interest from the date of the 
internal note to the date the blocks were removed is fair.
The blocks will have had a significant impact on Mr V, and Im satisfied that its right hes 
paid compensation. Ive considered carefully what Mr V has said about the impact this had 
on him, and that it wasnt until September 2020 he was able to mitigate his circumstances. I 
accept this will have caused him considerable distress. Lloyds havent communicated with 
him well about this, and I can see why hed be confused and upset by their inaction, and that 
it took so long to resolve. Ive also considered that there doesnt seem to be record of Mr V 
letting Lloyds know hed be relying on the money held with them to be transferred to the 
country he lived in, or that hed done so previously, before the blocks were applied. Taking 
everything in to account I think the £500 already paid is reasonable.
Both Mr V and Lloyds replied to say they accepted my provisional decision  so all that 
remains is for me to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions and redress from the provisional 
decision. As such I see no reason to change my findings, and I direct Lloyds to settle the 
complaint in line with what was agreed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr V 8% 
interest on the balance of the current account from 12 June 2020 to the date the blocks were 
removed. If Lloyds believe ta should be paid on the interest award, they should give Mr V a 
certificate showing how much is taken so he can reclaim this from HMRC if eligible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman