DRN-3355790
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt explain the full implications of 
agreeing a reduced payment arrangement for their mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs P and Mr S have a mortgage with Barclays. They asked Barclays for a payment deferral 
which was in place from April to September 2020. In accordance with the regulators 
guidelines, this didnt impact their credit files.
Mrs P and Mr S were still struggling financially when the payment deferrals ended and 
agreed a reduced payment arrangement with Barclays. Mr S says while Barclays said there 
would be credit file implications, it didnt give him enough information about this. Mr S made 
a payment to clear the arrears in June 2021. He asked that Barclays send written 
confirmation that the mortgage wasnt in arrears. He also asked that Barclays remove 
adverse data from his credit file as this was stopping him finding work.
Mr S says Barclays made other errors. It wrongly sent a letter saying they hadnt maintained 
their payment plan. He says his credit file shows late payments/defaults for some months 
instead of that they had an arrangement. 
Our investigator said Barclays had given Mr S and Mrs P information about credit reference 
agencies and that information would be reported to them. The investigator said Barclays had 
to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies and had done so here. While 
credit reference agencies present information in different ways, this wasnt Barclays 
responsibility.
Mr S and Mrs P didnt agree. Mr S said Barclays hadnt met its duty of care or the principles 
set out in rules on mortgage regulation, including to safeguard its customers interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. In keeping with this, I havent addressed 
each of Mr Ss detailed comments. I can assure him that Ive read what hes said and taken 
it into account. Mr S says the data on his credit file has made it difficult to find work, and so I 
appreciate how important the outcome of this complaint is for Mr S. 
I should say here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
There seems to be no dispute or concerns about the payment deferral in place from April to 
September 2020. At the end of this, Mr S told Barclays hed lost his job and was looking for 
work. Barclays agreed a three-month interest only payments concession. Mr S called again 
in December 2020 and asked for further support for six months. Barclays agreed a reduced 
payments arrangement from January 2021. There seems to be no dispute that Barclays put 
in place the support that Mr S and Mrs P asked for. 
In early June 2021 Mr S told Barclays they were still having difficulty meeting payments, but 
expected matters to improve later in the year. At the end of June 2021 Mr S called to repay 
the arrears. He said he would contact Barclays data exceptions team as his career was 
being impacted by the arrears on his account. 
Barclays told Mr S that the reduced payment arrangement would have implications for their 
credit files and that making reduced payments would result in arrears. However, Mr S says 
the information reported by Barclays to the credit reference agencies was inaccurate or open 
to misinterpretation. Mr S provided an extract from his credit report. This says, correctly, that 
there was an arrangement in place from January 2021. It also says that from March 2021 the 
account is one, two and then three months late.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration here. He says he lost his job due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and this affected his ability to maintain his mortgage payments. In accordance 
with the regulators guidelines, Mr S and Mrs P were offered a payment deferral and then 
tailored support in the form of an interest only concession and then the reduced payment 
arrangement. Mr S has told us that he received a conditional job offer and, despite being 
upfront with the potential employer about the arrangement and arrears, says the offer was 
withdrawn due to the data on his credit file related to the arrangement. I do understand why 
Mr S feels the situation is unfair.
What I must consider here is whether Barclays made an error or treated Mr S and Mrs P 
unfairly. Barclays has a duty to record accurate and up to date information with the credit 
reference agencies. Mr S and Mrs P agreed a reduced payment arrangement, and made 
reduced payments. This resulted in arrears on their account. Barclays says it reported the 
arrangement plan. It says in March it reported one month of arrears, in April it reported two 
months arrears and in May it reported three months arrears. It says it hasnt reported any 
arrears or arrangements since then.
I dont think I can fairly find that the information Barclays reported to the credit reference 
agencies was inaccurate. Mr S and Mrs P did have an arrangement and their account was in 
arrears. Barclays had told them when they agreed the payment arrangement that this would 
result in arrears and that the arrangement would have implications for their credit files. 
Mr S says the way the information is presented by one of the credit reference agencies is 
unfair and open to misinterpretation. Barclays says that the terminology used by credit 
reference agencies can be misleading and confusing for customers. It said the missed 
payments referred to in Mr Ss credit report are the arrears which built up while Mr S and 
Mrs P made reduced monthly payments. The credit report says that the symbols used mean 
payments are behind schedule, so I think what Barclays says is likely to be right. I dont think 
I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for the way information is presented by the credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr S provided the background check report done on behalf of his prospective employer. This 
refers to him having two missed payments. I dont know if it would have made any difference 
to the decision made by the prospective employer if the report had referred to arrears. If the 
person creating the report misunderstood the data (and I make no findings about this) I cant 
fairly say that Barclays was responsible for this.
Barclays says that the letter it sent in April 2021 saying the arrangement had been broken 
was due to a system error. Mr S called when he received the letter and Barclays said the letter was an error and corrected its system. I dont agree that this was notice to repossess 
the property, as Mr S suggests, but I can understand it was upsetting to receive the letter. 
Barclays says this error didnt affect the information it reported to the credit reference 
agencies and I havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise.  
Im really sorry for the position Mr S is in, and I can understand his frustration. But I dont 
think, based on the available evidence, that Barclays made an error with the information it 
reported to the credit reference agencies. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require it to amend or remove the information reported.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman