DRN-3037372
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the handling of a claim she made to Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(Inter) under her home emergency policy. 
Mrs R is represented by her son Mr R, who I will refer to throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr R made a claim to Inter as he says the boiler was not providing hot water or heating. An 
engineer attended and found the boiler was working but diagnosed a problem with a leaking 
two-port valve and a wire that had snapped off. The engineer was able to restore the 
heating and hot water by fixing the wire, but a replacement valve was needed to complete 
the job. 
A second engineer replaced the two-port valve two days later. Mr R expected this would 
happen sooner and made several calls to Inter, chasing progress and to query why 
appointments had been cancelled. A few days later another engineer fitted a replacement 
timer. The gas fire was serviced at this time. This was followed by a boiler service a few 
days later.  
Mr R complains that Inter didnt pay for the full cost of replacement heaters. And that he had 
to spend a lot of time contacting it by phone. He also says its engineer caused a gas leak. 
And when carrying out a smoke test the house was filled with smoke, which set off all the 
smoke detectors. In addition, Mr R says that a water leak occurred due to poor workmanship 
which resulted in damage to a ceiling.  
Inter says its records show no appointments were missed. And that it paid Mr R the full cost 
of the replacement heaters. Albeit this was because it didnt explain to him that the policy 
only provides cover up to £50, before he spent money on this. Inter says none of its 
engineers identified a gas leak. It says it replaced the leaking two-port valve shortly after it 
was reported, but there was no failed repair. Inter says when Mr R reported a re-occurring 
leak, this was found on a different valve.       
One of our investigators looked in to the matter. He didnt uphold the complaint. He decided 
the company had behaved fairly when dealing with Mr Rs claim. He thought Inters records 
showed the engineers attended as arranged and that the appropriate work was carried out. 
The investigator says it was fair that the company paid the full cost of replacement heaters. 
Mr R disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold the complaint. I appreciate this isnt the 
answer Mr R wanted, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Water damaged ceiling
The records show that when the first appointment took place, a leaking two-port valve was 
found. Its apparent this hadnt been noticed by Mr R or his family, as at the time they 
contacted Inter only a fault with the boiler was mentioned. It was the engineer who first 
noticed the leak. This was then fixed two days after the first contact, by replacing the valve. 
A later record refers to an appointment to investigate a motorised valve leak, but that the 
leak was found with the pump valve. My understanding is that the motorised valve is the two-
port valve. But the pump valve is different. The engineer reported that the leak with the pump 
valve was fixed with the use of plumbers mate and PTFE.
Mr R has sent a photo of the damage caused to his ceiling. I accept there is some damage 
showing. And I acknowledge Mr Rs view that this was caused by a failed repair to the two-
port valve. But the records dont support this. The engineer didnt find a leak with the two-
port valve after it was replaced. I havent seen evidence that shows the replacement valve 
leaked.   
Based on this, I dont think Inter is responsible for the water damage to the ceiling. 
Gas leak
Mr R says his father noticed the smell of gas, which he says was caused by Inters 
engineers. He says his father was able to isolate the leak. 
From the records provided there is no reference to any of the engineers who attended 
identifying a gas leak. 
I dont dispute Mr Rs recollection of events. But I havent seen evidence to show that a gas 
leak occurred. Inter points to its engineers being appropriately qualified, and I note it 
supplied certificates to demonstrate this. 
Based on the available information, I dont think its been shown that Inters engineers 
caused a gas leak. 
Electric heaters 
Mr R was unhappy that he only received £50 toward electric heaters when he paid more 
than this.
Inter agrees that it should pay a further £44. This is because it didnt tell Mr R that the policy 
was limited to a £50 contribution. 
As it wasnt made clear the policy limited the payment to £50, this meant Mr R wasnt in an 
informed position when deciding to purchase heaters. I think its fair the company has offered 
to make up the difference in what Mr R paid for temporary heating. 
Smoke test
Mr R says the house filled with smoke during a smoke test setting off the smoke alarms. 
Inter says there is a possibility of smoke entering the house as the test is designed to see if 
the flue is clear or blocked. If its blocked the test smoke wont be able to exit via the flue, 
which shows there is a problem. 
Inters final decision talks about Mr Rs report of a gas leak and smoke filling the house together. I think its response should have separated the two points and been clearer in 
explaining why the smoke test was carried out. But its clear the test was conducted to 
highlight a blockage in the flue, which was a necessary part of the work being carried out.
Poor service/Cancelled appointments
Mr R says he spent ten hours on the phone to Inter and complains of a poor standard of 
service and missed appointments. 
I have considered Mr Rs comments in conjunction with the call records supplied by Inter. 
The records show there were a number of contacts between Mr R and Inter. But from what I 
have read, the company responded appropriately when dealing with the claim and making 
the necessary arrangements for engineers to attend.
Inter refers to a phone call from Mr R regarding an appointment for a boiler service. He had 
taken the day off to allow the engineer access but understood the appointment had been 
cancelled. From the records the appointment took place that afternoon, which is the 
information Mr R was given during this call. 
I do not dispute Mr Rs recollection of events, but I havent seen information to support his 
view that appointments were cancelled or missed. 
I can appreciate it was frustrating for Mr R and his family to be without heating and hot 
water. I also accept he was in regular contact with the company for updates. But based on 
what I have seen it responded appropriately and in line with the policy terms. 
Damage to fire
Mr R says an engineer caused a burn mark on an electric fire. 
I have seen photos that shows a black mark on the front of the electric fire. Inter says this 
mark can be seen on a photo its engineer took at the time of its first visit. It suggests this 
mark was already present before it attended. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs view that this mark was caused by Inters engineer. But based on the 
information provided its not been shown that this was the case. I dont dispute Mr Rs 
understanding of what caused the black mark, but I must base my decision on the evidence 
thats available. I cant reasonably conclude that Inter is responsible for this.    
Having considered all of this, I dont think Inter handled the claim unfairly, and it behaved 
reasonably in refunding the additional costs of the electric heaters. So, I cant fairly ask it to 
do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman