DRN-3252854
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about what Vauxhall Finance plc (VF) has charged on his conditional 
sale agreement due to missed payments. He holds VF responsible for the missed payments.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr A entered into a conditional sale agreement with VF to acquire a van. 
Unfortunately in March 2020 Mr A lost his income due to the impact caused by Covid-19. So 
VF agreed to provide him with a three-month payment deferral. 
In July 2020 VF contacted Mr A to advise him the payment deferral was ending and said 
Mr A needed to set up a new direct debit mandate (DDM) because the previous one had 
been cancelled. And it sent Mr A a new DDM form to complete. It also said he could set this 
up online. 
Mr A called VF to complain that it hadnt provided a stamped address envelope to enable 
him to send the form. VF said it doesnt provide pre-paid envelopes. Mr A later sent the form 
back, but VF said it couldnt set the DDM up. It said Mr A had asked for the payments to 
come from a companys bank account, but it said a Companies House search showed Mr A 
wasnt a director of that company. So it said it couldnt set the DDM up.
Mr A complained, but later realised he had put the wrong company name down when filling 
out the DDM. He acknowledged this was his error, but he said hed also tried to do this 
online and on the telephone but had been prevented from doing so by VFs system errors.
VF said it had contacted its IT department, but it said it wasnt aware of any issues with the 
online or telephone systems.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that there werent any issues 
with VFs systems. He said hed discussed this matter at length with VF and he provided a 
detailed explanation as to why he thinks Mr A may have had issues with the systems. He 
said VF had explained it was down to the fact the systems had signed Mr A out because of 
inactivity. He didnt think there was anything to show the late payments were down to 
anything VF had done wrong.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is unhappy VF have charged late payment charges as he maintains this was down to 
VFs systems failures. But I havent seen anything to support this.
Mr A initially returned a DDM form, but he put the incorrect company name on it. VF is 
unable to set up a DDM to come from a limited companys bank account without 
authorisation from one of the companys directors. Mr A wasnt the director of the company 
he put on the form and Mr A has accepted this was his mistake. Ultimately VF isnt 
responsible for the delays in setting up the DDM as a result of this.
I can see VF later received an updated DDM from Mr A with the correct details and it set up 
a DDM for the payments going forward. However, VF has shown the October and November 
direct debit requests were rejected by Mr As companys bank setting out that the DDM was 
inactive. VF spoke with Mr A who said he would discuss the matter with the bank. The DDM 
was fully operational from December 2020 and payments went through thereafter.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show VF was responsible for the issues with the DDM 
not being set up correctly.
I note Mr A says he tried numerous times to set this up online, but I havent seen anything to 
support this. Im also particularly conscious that VF advised Mr A at the start he could set the 
DDM up online, but he asked for a postal application a number of times. The investigator set 
out VFs explanation for why the account kept logging off  namely due to inactivity. I dont 
think this is unreasonable that VF would force the log out the account for security purposes. 
While Ive taken Mr As comments into account, Im not persuaded the delays in setting up a 
payment mandate was down to anything VF did wrong.
Ultimately, it was Mr As responsibility to ensure there was a valid payment mechanism in 
place to ensure his contractual payments were made on time.
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr A found himself in due to the impact caused by 
Covid-19. But I think VF did look to support him where it could and Im satisfied it 
communicated fairly with him. Ultimately, the terms of the finance agreement entitled it to 
charge the charges it did. I also understand VF waived some of the charges so I think it has 
treated him fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman