DRN-3200833
The complaint
Mr Y complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has failed to carry out service visits 
and make a repair on his boiler under his home emergency policy. He wants his own 
plumbers expenses reimbursed and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr Y had a home emergency policy which includes repairs and servicing on his central 
heating system and boiler. Mr Y says his boiler was normally serviced around the middle of 
the year, but no service was carried out during 2020 or in 2021. The boiler developed a fault 
in late 2020 leaving Mr Y without heating. He says he couldnt arrange any appointment for 
BG to attend and was due to go on holiday a few days later. Mr Y says in order to ensure he 
had heating on his return he paid a plumber £230 to service the boiler and repair the fault 
whilst he was away. 
Mr Y complained to BG about what had happened. He said it hadnt provided the services he 
was paying for. BG apologised for the problems in providing service appointments. It said 
Covid 19 restrictions had made routine service visits impossible for several months, creating 
a large backlog of work. It apologised for not being able to offer a suitable appointment for 
the repair to be made. It agreed to reimburse Mr Ys expenses of £230 less the £50 excess 
on the policy if he provided an invoice showing the work undertaken was covered by the 
policy. It also paid Mr Y £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience of not being 
able to offer him an appointment for the repair. 
Mr Y said he didnt have an invoice but would obtain one. But the plumber hasnt been 
provided yet. Mr Y contacted BG to say it hadnt addressed the missed servicing 
appointments. He said BGs online system showed the earliest appointment was for May 
2021, which would be nearly two years between services. He said this was an unacceptable 
breach of contract. He suggested that given the problems with his own plumber providing the 
invoice, BG should refund the last nine months premiums of £249.98, as this covered the 
period from when the 2020 service was due. 
BG said it would refund £65 in respect of the missed service directly to Mr Ys bank account. 
It said it wouldnt refund his premiums and needed a copy of the invoice to reimburse him. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said BG had offered fair compensation of £50 for the inconvenience of Mr Y not being 
able to book a repair appointment. She said the £65 refund for the missed service was also 
fair as was the offer to pay the plumbers expenses. As the invoice for this was proving 
difficult to obtain, she asked BG if it would compromise and pay Mr Y £90 rather than the 
£180. BG advised it couldnt do this as it needed to verify that the work done was covered by 
the policy. Our investigator said this wasnt unreasonable and she couldnt ask BG to pay a 
third-party bill without evidence it was covered by the policy.
Mr Y said BG had missed two annual services and had only paid £65 in compensation for 
this, which was derisory. He said it hadnt been possible to book any repair appointment at 
all and BG hadnt arranged for another plumber to do the work instead, so there had been no 
service whatsoever over the last two years, a flagrant breach of contract on their part. 
As Mr Y doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that this would have been frustrating for Mr Y, but I dont think BG has treated 
him unfairly. 
The servicing
Mr Y says BG is in breach of the contract terms. I understand why he thinks this but having 
considered the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the policy, I dont think it is. I think that at 
present BG has only missed one service rather than two. This is because the contract 
provides for a service within the policy year rather than on an annual basis. The (T&Cs) 
refer to the annual service as being a check in each period of the agreement and also say 
that the annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit. 
If a service isnt offered or BG cant carry it out, the T&Cs provides for the service cost 
element, which is £65, to be re-imbursed. BG has reimbursed £65 for the policy year running 
from 30 April 2020 to 29 April 2021, as it didnt carry out a service in that period. Whilst it 
didnt carry out a service in the calendar year 2021, BG still has until 29 April 2022 to 
complete the service for the relevant policy year.
If BG doesnt complete a service by then I would expect it to reimburse the £65 annual 
service charge once more. So far BG has done what the contract provides for in terms of 
servicing, so I cant say BG has treated Mr Y unfairly in respect of this.  
  
The repair
I can see that not being able to book a repair appointment would be annoying and 
inconvenient. The T&Cs say repairs and visits will be carried out within a reasonable time 
but doesnt otherwise say when appointments will be available. 
Here, Mr Y was able to get the boiler repaired and he had heating when he returned from his 
holiday. So, I think the £50 paid by BG is reasonable compensation for the inconvenience of 
having to arrange this himself.
I also think BGs offer to reimburse Mr Ys expenses less the £50 policy excess subject to 
the work falling under the conditions of the policy is fair. Unfortunately, Mr Y has not yet 
been able to obtain an invoice from his plumber. That isnt BGs fault, but I can see that Mr Y 
might take the view that BGs inability to offer an appointment is the primary cause of the 
problem. That said, I would expect the plumber to have provided an invoice at the time and 
hopefully one will be available soon.
Overall, I dont think BG has treated Mr Y unfairly in what it has done and proposed to do 
subject to a sight of the invoice. Hopefully Mr Y will be able to obtain the invoice and be 
reimbursed. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to tell BG to make the reimbursement without proof of the work undertaken and BG neednt do any more than it 
has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman