DRN-3541770
The complaint
Mr U complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited settled a claim he made through his 
employers group policy.
What happened
Following a hospital admission, Mr U made a cash benefit claim on his employers group 
private medical insurance policy. 
BUPA paid that cash benefit for one night  on the basis that Mr U had been in the accident 
and emergency department the night before which wasnt covered under the policy  but 
Mr U complained.
Mr U said he should have been paid for two nights and the cash benefit calculation wasnt 
made clear on the table of cover shown on his employers website. He said he hadnt been 
given a copy of the policys terms and conditions he had requested. And he said BUPA had 
pressured him into closing the complaint over the phone despite him making it clear that 
matters still hadnt been resolved.
In its final response to Mr Us complaint BUPA said it had calculated the cash benefit 
correctly. It said tables of cover were only available on its website for personal policies, not 
group policies like the one Mr U had through his employer. BUPA said it couldnt confirm 
when it first requested the policy terms and conditions were sent to Mr U, and so it agreed 
he hadnt received them within a reasonable timeframe. BUPA also said that it hadnt 
intended to pressure Mr U, but with the benefit of hindsight it could appreciate why the call 
had come across that way.
To put things right BUPA apologised and paid Mr U £70 compensation, but Mr U remained 
unhappy and approached this service.
Our investigator looked at the policy terms and conditions and said BUPA had calculated the 
cash benefit correctly. She said the table of benefit set out that it was only an outline of cover 
and should be read in conjunction with the relevant policy documentation too.
Our investigator agreed Mr U hadnt received a copy of the policy documentation within a 
reasonable timeframe, but while she empathised with Mr U she said she was unable to 
agree that BUPA had tried to pressure him into closing his complaint. Overall, our 
investigator thought the £70 compensation was a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr U had been caused. 
Mr U disagreed and reiterated his original concerns. He also referred to other complaints 
that he had brought to this service, and he asked that a phone call after BUPAs final 
response was considered too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has set out his concerns in detail and I thank him for taking the time to do so. Before I 
set out my findings, I want to highlight that I will not address every point or argument raised. 
Instead, I will focus my findings on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint:
BUPA calculated Mr Us cash benefit correctly. The terms and conditions of the 
group policy explain cash benefit will be paid, for up to 20 nights per benefit year, for 
hospital in-patient admissions. The phrase hospital in-patient is specifically defined 
as admission to a hospital ward (before midnight) where the member is required, for 
medical reasons, to stay in hospital overnight or longer. Mr U wasnt admitted into 
hospital before midnight on the first night he went to accident and emergency, so 
despite his two nights in hospital only one is eligible for the cash benefit.  
The table of cover Mr U is concerned with appears to have been what his employer 
displayed on its website, as opposed to something that BUPA provided directly and it 
would be unfair of me to hold BUPA responsible for the actions of Mr Us employer. 
However, BUPA has confirmed the table Mr Us employer chose to display matches 
its own table. I appreciate Mr U may have wanted the table to contain more detail but 
I dont think it is intended to be a comprehensive document in and of itself  it says it 
is to be read in conjunction with both the policy welcome letter and the policy 
membership guide. The description of the cash benefit is not incorrect as it sets out 
BUPA will pay up to £20 a day for hospital in-patient benefit. And when read in 
conjunction with the other policy documentation I think a full understanding of the 
cash benefit cover is available. 
Mr U is understandably unhappy that BUPA did not provide him with a copy of the 
policy documentation when he should have reasonably expected it. BUPA has 
acknowledged it isnt sure what happened with regard to sending the documentation 
out, and its accepted that Mr U didnt receive it within a reasonable time frame. I 
think it was right of BUPA to do so, given the time it took for it to action Mr Us 
request and its latter inability to establish the reason for its delay. 
It is a shame to hear Mr U felt BUPA were pressuring him into closing his complaint 
and I empathise with the impact he says this had on him. I think it apparent from the 
calls that BUPA wanted to resolve matters for Mr U. However, without wanting to 
diminish Mr Us feelings in any way I cant fairly agree that BUPA intentionally tried to 
pressure him. BUPA has acknowledged that with the benefit of hindsight it can 
appreciate why Mr U may have felt that way though. Given I dont think it had 
intended to make Mr U feel pressured, I think that response was reasonable. 
It is evident that Mr U feels very strongly about what has happened and I appreciate 
that he may be further disappointed by my findings. For the reasons I have given 
above I am not persuaded that I need to interfere with BUPAs current position. It has 
settled Mr Us claim in line with the policy terms and has provided suitable 
explanations and apologies where I think those were warranted. BUPA has also paid 
£70 in compensation too, which I think represents a fair and proportionate reflection 
of the impact its actions had on Mr U.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman