DRN-4461889
The complaint
Ms O complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) unfairly turned down her 
claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) relating to 
a loan they provided to her to purchase a timeshare product. 
What happened
In or around November 2019, Ms O attended a sales presentation undertaken by a 
timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as C. Following the presentation, Ms O agreed to 
purchase a timeshare product from C  that being membership of a points-based scheme 
operated by them. Under the purchase agreement, she would receive an annual allowance 
of 1,100 points to be used against accommodation and other holiday experiences included 
within a portfolio operated by C.
The purchase price agreed was £18,344. A trade in value of £4,395 was attributed to an 
existing trial membership Ms O had previously purchased from C in 2018. The net total to be 
paid of £13,949 was funded under a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook together 
with a further £2,506 to consolidate the balance outstanding on an existing loan in respect of 
the original trial membership. So, the total new loan was £16,455 repayable over a term of 
10 years.
In June 2021, using a claims management company (the CMC), Ms O submitted claims to 
Shawbrook under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. In particular, the CMC alleged that C 
had misrepresented the product purchased by telling Ms O the product was of some 
substance albeit its now clear it is worthless. The CMC also said the product was sold as 
an investment contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. Further, the CMC said the contract between Ms O 
and C was breached. They believe that both the misrepresentations and the breach satisfy 
the criteria for a claim under section 75 of the CCA (S75).
The CMC also said that the relationship between Ms O and Shawbrook, arising out of the 
loan agreement, taken with the related purchase agreement with C, is unfair pursuant to 
section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, they said that in addition to the 
misrepresentations:
Ms O was subjected to a high-pressure sales presentation;
thered been a breach of fiduciary duty
Shawbrook had deliberately chosen not to disclose the fact that commission was 
paid to C, or the amount paid;
Ms O wasnt presented with a choice of finance options; and
Shawbrook failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment and the finance 
agreement was unaffordable.
Shawbrook responded to Ms Os claims early in August 2021. They didnt agree there was 
any evidence to support the various allegations. Or that there was any other reason to 
uphold any other aspect of Ms Os claims or complaint.
Shortly after, the CMC referred Ms Os complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered all the evidence and information available. Having done so, they also didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to support the allegations made. Or that a court was likely to 
find unfairness in the relationship pursuant to S140A. So, they didnt think Shawbrook 
needed to do anything more. 
The CMC didnt accept our investigators findings. In support, they provided this service with 
a 51-page document containing Generic submissions on behalf of complainants which 
relates specifically to situations where consumer credit has been provided to purchase 
products sold by C  as in Ms Os case.
Further, the CMC raised specific concerns about the way finance had been sold to 
purchasers of timeshare products generally. In doing so, they wanted this service to obtain 
information and provide responses to various questions about the procedures and policies 
that applied to the sale of loans with Shawbrook by C. They also raised questions about the 
regulatory status of C and their resultant ability to introduce loans to consumers. Finally, the 
CMC raised concerns about this services approach to similar claims and complaints 
referencing previous decisions and outcomes.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Ms Os complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and reach a final decision. In doing so, while I reached a similar outcome to that of 
our investigator, I considered various aspects that I feel werent fully addressed previously. 
Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2023 giving Ms O and 
Shawbrook Bank Limited the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reach a final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Ms O paid for the timeshare product having financed it with a restricted use regulated 
loan from Shawbrook. So, its accepted that S75 applies here.  Because of that, Ive 
taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Ms O and Shawbrook arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). As the 
product purchased was funded under a credit agreement, its deemed to be a related 
agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But 
as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and 
reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe Shawbrooks treatment of Ms Os claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. 
Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their policies or procedures or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the FCA. But it is our role to 
examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in the manner 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authorityin which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of 
Ms Os experience with them. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding - if accepted by the consumer - we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by C in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that C made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Ms O something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Ms O to enter into the contract. This means I would need to 
be persuaded that she reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Ms O was specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product she purchased. It was, however, 
indicated that she was told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the 
other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen 
any documentation which supports the assertions in Ms Os claim, such as marketing 
material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what the CMC says 
she was told. In particular that the product purchased was represented as a financial 
investment.
I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary 
to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent value to her 
membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to 
suggest C gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
purchased. C would had to have presented the membership in such a way that used 
its investment element to persuade Ms O to contract. Only then would it have fallen 
foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an 
investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. 
Given my findings above, I dont think Shawbrooks response to the allegation was 
unreasonable.
On a separate (but related) point, the claim submitted by the CMC appears to 
suggest that Ms O purchased a Fractional points product. A Fractional timeshare is 
generally accepted as one where the purchaser acquires a defined share in real 
property under the purchase agreement. In Ms Os case, she purchased points rights 
to be used against holiday accommodation and experiences from within a portfolio  
not a specified and identifiable property. Theres no evidence Ms O purchased a 
Fractional timeshare product here.The claim for breach of contract under S75
A breach of contract occurs when one or more parties to a contract or agreement 
fails to perform their duties or fulfil their obligations under that contract resulting in a 
loss for the other party. The CMC havent explained how the purchase agreement 
has been breached. Or how Ms O suffered loss as a consequence. So, I dont think 
Shawbrooks response was unreasonable here.
There is a suggestion that Shawbrook breached their fiduciary responsibilities. But as 
I will explain below, I dont agree thats the case here.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Shawbrook) and the debtor 
(Ms O) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). 
The pressured sale and process
The claim makes an allegation that Ms O was subjected to a high-pressure sales 
presentation albeit theres no detail as to how this came about or manifested itself. 
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Ms O agreed to the purchase in 2019 when she simply didnt 
want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that she went on to say 
something to C, after the purchase, to suggest shed agreed to it when she didnt 
want to. And Ms O hasnt provided a credible explanation for why she didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted here. 
If Ms O only agreed to the purchase because she felt she was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest she were obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
she made the decision to proceed because her ability to exercise choice was  or 
was likely to have been  significantly impaired. 
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[Shawbrook] and matters relating to the debtor [Mrs O]).
Ms O already held an existing trial membership timeshare product shed purchased 
previously from C. Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade 
and/or change from her existing timeshare product holding. It doesnt appear it was 
her first product purchase from C and Ms O wasnt a new customer. So, its likely she 
wouldve benefitted from her previous experience and what might be expected from 
the meeting and sales presentation in 2019.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some allegations might have 
led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to be 
taken within the context of Ms Os overall experience. And even if I was to find that some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Cs responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Ms Os S140A claim is based upon the status of C (as the introducer of the 
loan) and their (and Shawbrooks) resultant responsibilities towards her. In particular, 
its argued that the payment of commission by Shawbrook to C was kept from her. 
But I dont think the fact that Shawbrook might have paid C commission was 
incompatible with its role in the transaction. 
C werent acting as an agent of Ms O, but as the supplier of contractual rights she 
obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based 
upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Cs role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation, or to give Ms O advice or information on that basis. 
As far as Im aware, she was always at liberty to choose how she wanted to fund the 
transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Shawbrook were under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these 
circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion or evidence that Ms O requested those 
details from Shawbrook (or C) at any point. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its 
likely that a court would find that any non-disclosure or payment of commission 
wouldve created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Ms Os claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether Shawbrook undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The CMC allege a proper affordability check wasnt completed.
Its relevant that the CMC havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Ms O. And Ive not seen anything that supports any 
suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
In their response to Ms Os claim, Shawbrook explained how they completed an 
affordability assessment which they believe showed the loan was sustainably 
affordable for her. If I were to find that the checks and tests completed by Shawbrook 
didnt comply with the regulatory guidelines and requirements that applied  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Ms O in order to uphold her complaint here. And I dont believe any 
proven compliance failure would automatically mean that Ms Os loan agreement 
was null and void in any event. It would need to be shown that any such failure 
resulted in a loss to Ms O as a consequence.
Ive seen no specific information about Ms Os actual position at the time and no 
supporting evidence that she struggled to maintain repayments. Shawbrook did 
suggest Ms O had made some payments late albeit the situation has now been 
resolved. Where Ms O feels she may be struggling to maintain repayments, 
Shawbrook have offered to discuss her circumstances in order to identify ways they 
can help. Thats what I would expect in such circumstances. Based upon these 
findings, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for her or that she 
suffered any loss as a consequence.
Other considerationsFollowing our investigators view, the CMC asked that this service consider the 
contents of a document headed Generic submissions on behalf of complainants. 
However, given the generic nature of its contents, I dont think its helpful in 
establishing the facts of what actually happened in Ms Os specific case.
The CMC have also referenced other complaint decisions issued by this service in 
relation to timeshare products funded under regulated agreements. However, my role 
is to consider Ms Os complaint on its own merits given its own particular set of 
circumstances.
Furthermore, the CMC also requested that this service obtain extensive details of 
Shawbrooks processes and procedures together with evidence that C (and in turn 
Shawbrook) complied with the relevant rules, regulations and codes of practice that 
applied in the circumstances of the loan that was provided to Ms O. 
As Ive already explained, this services role as an ADR does not extend to regulating 
financial businesses or their policies and procedures  thats the role of the FCA. Our 
powers are confined to deciding whether, on balance, their processes and 
procedures were applied in a fair and reasonable way in Ms Os individual 
circumstances. And in doing so, whether Shawbrooks response to Ms Os claims 
appears fair and reasonable. Thats what Ive done here.
As regards the regulatory status of C (or otherwise), I cant see that this formed any 
part of the claim presented to Shawbrook. So, I dont believe this is an aspect that I 
can consider as part of this complaint.
Summary
I would like to reassure Ms O that Ive carefully considered everything thats been 
said and provided. In doing so, I havent found any evidence to support the various 
allegations made. And accepting that my role isnt to decide any legal claim here, I 
also havent found anything that leads be to conclude that Shawbrooks response to 
Ms Os claims was unfair or unreasonable. And because of that, I dont currently 
intend asking them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook acknowledged my provisional findings and confirmed they have no further 
comments to add. Despite follow up by this service, the CMC havent provided any response 
or acknowledgment. In these circumstances, and in the absence of anything new to 
consider, Ive no reason to vary from my provisional findings. So, my final decision remains 
unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman