DRN-3131089
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) wont refund the interest he was 
charged on his credit card account after a payment he made didnt go through. 
What happened
Mr M says he contacted Sainsburys in October 2020 and paid off the full balance as the 0% 
interest rate on balance transfers was due to expire the following month. However, In 
April 2021, Mr M discovered that the payment hadnt gone through.
Mr M contacted Sainsburys and he was then advised to pay the balance directly from his 
bank account, which he attempted but it bounced back. He was then subsequently able to 
make the payment. Mr M complained as he was charged interest from November 2020.
After investigating Mr Ms complaint, Sainsburys told him it had no records of any calls being 
made from him in October 2020 and that had a call come through, it would have 
automatically been recorded on its system. Sainsburys asked if he could provide evidence 
of the call but Mr M said he was unable. It did however confirm that there had been an issue 
with their on-line platform during April 2021 and therefore agreed to refund Mr M with the 
interest accrued in that month.  It also agreed to pay him £25 in compensation.
Mr M was still unhappy so brought the complaint to us. He said he wanted all the interest 
refunded and £500 compensation for the time and effort he has put in to try to rectify the 
situation. One of our investigators looked at what had happened but didnt uphold the 
complaint, she said that she couldnt see any call attempt in October 2020 and that 
Sainsburys hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr M was still unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
I understand how strongly Mr M feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of points
and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything Mr M has
said, but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No
discourtesy is intended by this, it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Wheres 
theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
As Mr M told us he contacted Sainsburys in October 2020, to pay off the full balance to 
ensure interest isnt added on, its clear he was aware when the 0% balance on transfers 
ended. He told us he contacted Sainsburys directly and the payment was made over the 
telephone. 
Sainsburys has told us that it didnt have a record of Mr M attempting to make this payment. 
And had a call been made, there would be a record of it. It confirmed that this is an 
automatic process. We asked Sainsburys to provide the communication log associated with 
Mr Ms account and can see no record of this call. I can see a log of the call Mr M made in 
April 2021 and had he called in October 2020, I think its likely there would be a record of it. 
We gave Mr M the opportunity to provide his own call records to show a call was made at 
this time, however, he has explained that this is not possible as he has changed provider. 
For the reasons above, I think its more likely than not that Sainsburys records are correct. I 
havent been able to find any evidence that Mr M made the call or paid off the balance in 
October 2020. So, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to proceed with 
adding the interest as per the terms and conditions of his account.
Mr M told us that he wasnt sent statements during this period so wasnt aware that the 
balance hadnt been paid off and was therefore now accumulating interest. I can see from 
the submissions provided by Sainsburys, that Mr M had previously opted for online 
statements and therefore wouldnt have been sent the statements via post. Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys made the statements available to Mr M as per his preference. I think its 
ultimately his responsibility to have an oversight of his account and log on to view his 
statements. Sainsburys have also confirmed that an email was sent to Mr M every month to 
inform him that his statement is ready to view so would act as a prompt. Even if Mr M didnt 
see his credit card statements, he wouldve had extra funds in his bank account which 
couldve indicated that the payment didnt go though.
Mr M informs us that when he discovered, in April 2021, that the payment hadnt gone 
though, he attempted to make the payment again but it bounced back. Sainsburys have 
confirmed that there was an issue with their online system during this time and have 
therefore issued a refund of the interest charged in April 2021. It also offered him £25 as 
compensation. I think this was the right thing to do in the circumstances as Mr M was caused 
some inconvenience in trying to make the payment again. Sainsburys has resolved this 
issue fairly and I dont recommend it does anything further regarding this. 
I understand that Mr M would like a full refund of all interest charged on the account and 
further compensation but as explained above, Im satisfied the full balance wasnt repaid 
before the end of the 0% interest period expired. So, I dont think Sainsburys should be 
required to do anything more. Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that 
Sainsburys have treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr M but I hope he understands the reasons 
for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman