DRN-3941548
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Premium Credit Limited carried out a hard credit search without her 
permission.
What happened
In November 2022 Mrs H was using a third partys website to pay her annual fee for her 
caravan site. She was going to pay for it in ten monthly instalments. She thought she was 
just setting up a direct debit. But she says that after she had entered her personal details 
and bank details, a screen came up with the terms and conditions and stated that she would 
actually be entering into a credit agreement with Premium Credit. As she was also applying 
or about to apply for a mortgage at around this time, she didnt want a credit agreement. She 
would rather have paid the whole fee at once.
There is a dispute about what happened next. Mrs H is adamant that she cancelled the 
application process and came off the website without accepting the terms and conditions 
and without applying for credit. But Premium Credit still received and processed her 
application. Premium Credit says this means she must have finished the application, and is 
mistaken when she says she didnt.
As part of processing her application for credit, Premium Credit carried out a hard credit 
check, meaning a credit search which is recorded on Mrs Hs credit file where other lenders 
can see it. This caused her considerable anxiety and distress because she did not believe 
she had authorised a credit search and had specifically tried to avoid one, and she was 
worried about the possible effect on her mortgage application.
Mrs H complained, as she was adamant that she had never clicked on the I accept button 
on the terms and conditions page. Premium Credit cancelled the agreement and also 
arranged for the hard credit check to be removed from her credit file. But Mrs H was not 
satisfied with that, and referred this complaint to our service. She said that she had been in 
the middle of applying for the largest mortgage she could afford, and so the unwanted credit 
search could have been catastrophic for her. She said she was willing to have her laptop 
computer forensically examined to verify how far she had got on the websites application 
procedure. (Unfortunately this is not a service we offer.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that the evidence showed that 
Mrs H must have submitted her loan application, because otherwise Premium Credit would 
not have received it. Premium Credit had therefore been entitled to carry out the search, and 
was not responsible for her distress. But as Premium Credit had also cancelled the 
agreement and removed the search, it had restored her to the position she would have been 
in (other than emotionally) if nothing had happened.
Mrs H did not accept that opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Firstly, Premium Credit cancelled the agreement on the day after Mrs H used the website, 
and arranged to remove the hard credit search seven days after that. Since it can take a 
month for information to appear on a credit file (it doesnt happen instantly), it isnt clear 
whether the search ever appeared on Mrs Hs credit file at all. I havent seen evidence which 
shows that Mrs Hs credit file was published with the search before the search was removed. 
But if it was, Premium Credit acted promptly to remove it, which resolved the problem.
Mrs Hs mortgage application therefore wasnt affected by the search (at least, I have not 
been shown evidence that it was). I completely understand why she was very worried that it 
would be, and why this was distressing. But I cant award compensation for hypothetical 
damage. (I appreciate that she isnt really asking for compensation for the search affecting 
her mortgage application, but for the search itself, and for the emotional impact of the search 
happening at such an inopportune time. But I think that is mitigated the fact that what she 
feared would happen was avoided because Premium Credit dealt with it quickly.)
Secondly, I think that the evidence in this case, taken all together, is too ambiguous for me 
to safely conclude that Premium Credit did not have authorisation to carry out the search.
On the one hand, Mrs H has given clear and credible testimony about her use of the 
website, her reaction when she realised she was unexpectedly applying for a loan, and what 
steps she immediately took as soon as she realised that the application had been 
processed. Her actions are entirely consistent with someone who not only didnt want a loan, 
but had good reason to be alarmed by the prospect of a new search appearing on her credit 
file and harming her ongoing mortgage application. On its face, her complaint is persuasive 
and believable.
But on the other hand, her complaint has always faced the difficulty that the application was 
received by Premium Credit, which is strong evidence that she did complete the online 
application. I accept that this is evidence is not conclusive, because it is an inference, and it 
is not the only inference which could possibly be drawn. The alternative inference is that 
there is a very serious glitch in the third partys website, which results in incomplete credit 
applications being submitted to Premium Credit without the potential applicant ever 
accepting the terms and conditions and confirming that they wish to proceed with the 
application. But there is no evidence to show that is what happened, other Mrs Hs 
insistence that she didnt finish the application procedure. I therefore have to decide which of 
these alternatives is more likely  that the alleged glitch does exist (without anything to 
corroborate that), or that Mrs H might be mistaken (even though she is sure she is not).
As Ive said already, I have generally found Mrs Hs account to be truthful and consistent. 
Balanced against that, I think that if the glitch did exist then it wouldnt happen only once, 
and so there would have been many other people in a similar position, and Premium Credit 
would have had many complaints just like this one. That does not appear to have happened. 
Also, Premium Credit has provided a screenshot showing an example of an application for 
credit at an early stage on the third partys website. (I wont show it in this decision because 
it identifies the third party, and this decision will be published. But I have shared it with 
Mrs H.) Mrs H doesnt recognise what the screenshot shows, but I have no reason to doubt 
that it is an authentic representation of the relevant website and of the application process. 
On the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that it is what she would have seen at the time 
and that she has forgotten it. And Im afraid that it tends to undermine Mrs Hs account of the 
sequence of events.The screenshot shows the logos of Premium Credit and the third party. It is titled Finance 
for Annual Fees. Below that there is a horizontal line with four labels on it, indicating four 
stages in the application process. The first one is highlighted, because that is the stage 
which is shown in the screenshot; it is called Quote. The next three stages are called 
Personal details, Bank details and Confirm details. So the quote screen would have 
appeared before Mrs H had to enter any details about herself or her bank account.
Underneath the horizontal line with the four application stages, the quote screen is 
displayed. It is titled Get a quote, and is divided into two boxes. The left hand box asks the 
customer for the caravan pitch fee and a starting date, and then below that is a paragraph of 
text which begins: Premium Credit Limited, an independent finance company, is pleased to 
offer you a credit facility  If you wish to apply for credit please complete the form above 
The right hand box shows (among other things) the APR, the interest rate, and the total 
amount payable (which exceeds the figure entered as the pitch fee in the left hand box).
So I think this screen, which is the first stage of the application process, made it clear that 
this was an application for credit. That contradicts Mrs Hs account, which is that this was not 
made clear until after she had entered all of her details. But entering details comes in the 
second and third stages.
I am entirely convinced that this is an honest mistake by Mrs H. But that means that she 
could plausibly have made another honest mistake, without realising it at the time  by 
accidentally completing the application process. I cannot definitively say that this is certainly 
what happened. But on the balance of probabilities (which I think is a fair and reasonable 
way of resolving disputes where the facts are uncertain), I think it is more likely than not.
For all of the above reasons, I think that Premium Credit has already done enough to fairly 
resolve this complaint, and so I will not require it to do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman