DRN-2927592
The complaint
Ms D complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) caused an unnecessary delay after she 
told them she wanted to take her pension benefits. She said this led to her receiving a lower 
tax-free cash lump sum than shed expected.
What happened
Ms D had a personal pension plan with SW. I understand that she called SW after meeting 
her financial adviser and discussing the potential impact of the impending pandemic. She 
said she was concerned that the financial markets would be impacted. So she wanted to 
take pre-emptive measures to reduce her risk.
Ms D called SW on 6 March 2020 to ask for details of charges on the plan. She said she was 
considering consolidating several of her pensions, so the level of charges and fund 
performance were key considerations. Ms D also asked whether her plan had a drawdown 
facility. She was told she could transfer to a different SW account (the Retirement Account) 
from where she could access drawdown. SW told Ms D the latest value of her plan was 
£58,870.60, which wasnt guaranteed.
Ms D contacted SW again on 9 March 2020 to ask to take 25% of her plan funds as a tax-
free lump sum. She was given the up-to-date value of her fund - £57,745.51  and was told it 
wasnt guaranteed. As she wanted to drawdown the funds that would remain after the tax-
free cash was taken, SW told her shed have to move to a Retirement Account before she 
could take tax-free cash. This would mean shed need a second meeting with a SW 
Retirement Account specialist before the drawdown could begin. Ms D was told that shed be 
sent information about the funds she needed to choose from to invest her residual funds. 
SW told Ms D their process allowed a minimum of four working days before the second 
meeting could be set up to give her time to make her investment choice. Ms D asked SW 
whether this was a legal requirement. SW told her it was their process, not a legal 
requirement. They then found Ms D the first available appointment which was five working 
days away. 
Ms D was unhappy with what SW had told her. She said shed already taken financial advice 
and knew exactly what she wanted to do. SW told her that this time between calls was 
needed to enable Ms D to read through all of the documentation. Ms D said she felt they 
were deliberately delaying her tax-free cash with their processes. She said that she felt SWs 
internal process would cost her money. SW offered to put her through to their complaints 
team. But Ms D declined. 
On 16 March 2020, the Retirement Account specialist for SW called Ms D to cover the 
requirements for transferring to a Retirement Account. Ms D was told that the value that 
would be used for the tax-free cash lump sum would be the value as at close of business on 
16 March 2020. The balance of her fund would then move to her new retirement account. 
She was also told that the actual transfer and payment of tax-free cash could take up to a 
maximum of 15 working days to be actioned, and that it could take a further three to five 
working days for the tax-free cash to clear in her account. Ms D questioned the need for the 
minimum four working day waiting period between her request and this call. SW told her it 
was a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requirement. As this was different from what shed 
been told during the 9 March 2020 call, Ms D questioned this. 
SW wrote to Ms D to confirm the transfer value transferred to Ms Ds new Retirement 
Account, with the transfer date confirmed as 16 March 2020. The new account had a value 
of £54,187.09 at this date.
Unhappy with the fall in her plan value between 9 March 2020 and 16 March 2020, Ms D 
complained to SW about the requirement to have a four-day gap between calls. 
In their 8 May 2020 final response letter, SW didnt uphold her complaint. They said their 
process followed the Financial Conduct Authoritys recommendations. SW acknowledged Ms 
Ds concerns that market conditions at the time of the process had a negative impact on the 
value of her pension fund. But said that their process was correct and met the FCAs 
recommendations.
Ms D replied the following day. She said there were two parts to her complaint. These were:
1. Her attempt to lodge a complaint about poor service when trying to call SW on 9 
March 2020. She said this complaint had now been dealt with.
2. Her partial pension encashment. 
She said shed completed the same process with two other pension providers. And that she 
was therefore familiar with the FCA recommendations and the two-call process required. But 
she said it was purely a SW procedure that there must be 14 days in between the calls. She 
said that SW hadnt had availability to arrange the second call on the first possible date. And 
said that their process and lack of appointment availability had reduced the value of her 
encashment. She noted that when she first called SW her plan was worth £58,870.60, so her 
tax-free cash wouldve been £14,717.65. But because of the delay theyd caused shed 
received a payment of £13,546.77 over three weeks after her initial contact. She felt SW had 
lost her £1,170.88.
SW sent a further final response letter on 30 June 2020. They upheld part of Ms Ds 
complaint as they acknowledged that they hadnt fully addressed her concerns in their 8 May 
2020 letter. They didnt agree that theyd caused any delays during the claims process or 
contributed to any financial loss. SW said that theyd ensured their claims process was 
compliant with the guidelines set by their regulators before it had been introduced. They said 
that as pensions were so complex, and to ensure their policy holders have time to consider 
any information relevant to their claim, they introduced a two-stage process with a break in 
between calls. They said they aim for the break to be a minimum of four working days and a 
maximum of 14 working days during their busiest periods. SW said that their timescale to 
settle a claim for the option Ms D chose was 15 working days from the date of the second 
call. They said theyd transferred Ms Ds pension to a Retirement Account and paid her tax-
free cash within six working days of her second call. They said theyd paid the tax-free cash 
on 24 March 2020 and that it shouldve reached Ms Ds account within three to five working 
days. SW said that this meant that from Ms Ds initial call to start the retirement process on 9 
March 2020, her claim had been processed within 11 working days, even when including the 
minimum four-day break. SW also said that they could find no evidence that Ms D had ever 
been told it would be a minimum of 14 days before the second call could be held. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She sympathised with Ms D that the process 
took place while markets were volatile and falling. But she felt that SW hadnt caused any 
unnecessary delays in processing Ms Ds transfer into the Retirement Account or paying her tax-free cash lump sum. Therefore she didnt consider they should be held financially liable 
for any reduction in the value of Ms Ds pension during the processing of her claim.
Ms D didnt agree with our investigator. She said shed not been informed of the SW internal 
policy until she actually came to progress the tax-free cash payment. She said the second 
call repeated questions shed already been asked and lasted 2 minutes at the very most. 
She still felt that SW deliberately delayed the taking of her benefits. And that she received 
contradictory responses from them about why they have a two-stage process. She also 
noted that the process SW had used was an internal procedure not used by other providers 
she had dealings with. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I can see that Ms D was given conflicting information about whether SWs process  
involving the two-stage call process and the minimum of four working day gap between them 
 was required by regulators or simply part of their internal process. Ms D also complains 
that shed not been informed of SWs internal process until she actually came to progress 
the tax-free cash payment. And that other providers shed dealt with didnt use the same 
process.
As our investigator noted, SWs process isnt an FCA requirement for providers, but theres 
nothing in regulation preventing SW from introducing such a process if they consider it helps 
their customers. In their June 2020 final response letter, SW acknowledged that their 
process isnt a requirement of the FCA but that it is compliant with their guidelines around 
delivery of retirement risk warnings. 
I acknowledge that Ms D said she didnt find out about SWs internal policy until she came to 
access her tax-free cash. But from what Ive seen, SW explained what that process was. 
They told Ms D on her call with them on 9 March 2020 that their process aimed for a break 
between calls to be a minimum of four working days. They explained why they felt this time 
was needed. And they booked Ms D the first available appointment, which happened to be 
five working days after her call. As SWs process is to arrange that second call within four 
and 14 working days, Im satisfied that the call was arranged in a timely fashion.
SW told Ms D in their June 2020 final response letter that the claims process was completed 
after shed provided them with her investment choice for the Retirement Account she had to 
switch to. Theyd explained during the 9 March 2020 call that Ms D would have to move her 
pension fund to a Retirement Account before she could take her tax-free cash. And told her 
that shed have to choose from the five portfolio funds available in the Retirement Account. 
They said theyd email her a guide to those investments to help her choose appropriately. 
And explained that the reason they had a minimum time between the two calls was to give 
customers time to review the guide. 
I acknowledge that Ms D questioned this at the time. And that she was told it wasnt a 
regulatory requirement, but SWs process. She was then told that the first available 
appointment was actually five working days away. This was booked for her. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence on this point. While I understand why Ms D was keen to take her tax-free cash as soon as possible given the volatility of financial markets at the 
time, I can see that SW were fairly following their standard process. They treated Ms D as 
they wouldve treated any other customer. It wasnt possible for them to waive the second 
part of their process as they needed Ms D to tell them how she wanted to invest her residual 
funds. She couldnt have done this on the first call as she didnt have the information about 
investments yet. And she wasnt speaking to a Retirement Account specialist. And she 
couldnt have talked to a Retirement Account specialist any sooner than she did as she was 
given the first appointment available. 
Therefore, while I acknowledge it wouldve been frustrating for Ms D to discover SW followed 
a process that meant her tax-free cash lump sum would take a few more days to process, I 
cant fairly say that SW did anything wrong. 
Ive no evidence that SW deliberately delayed the taking of Ms Ds benefits. And Ive no 
evidence that the conflicting information Ms D was given over the two calls she had with SW 
during the process made any difference to the outcome here. I say this because SW were 
entitled to use the process the did, having first checked it was compliant with FCAs 
regulations. 
Overall, I can see that the claim started on 9 March 2020. And the tax-free cash payment 
was made 11 working days later. As this is within the industry standard of 14 working days, I 
cant fairly say that SW caused any delay in processing the claim.
I acknowledge that Ms D said that SWs process wasnt used by the other providers she 
dealt with. I cant comment on processes used by other providers, except to say that as long 
as a business meets its regulatory requirements, its entitled to design a process which it 
feels serves its customers best. 
Overall, Im sorry that Ms D wasnt able to take her tax-free cash as quickly as she wouldve 
liked. I can see that she had done what she could do avoid the market volatility the 
pandemic caused. But I cant hold SW responsible for that. From what Ive seen, they 
processed Ms Ds claim fairly and didnt cause any delays. Ive also seen that Ms D was 
given conflicting information about whether SWs process was an internal or a regulatory 
requirement. But Im not persuaded that the conflicting information made any difference to 
the outcome, as Im satisfied that SW followed their correct process, and treated Ms D as 
they wouldve treated any other customer. Therefore I cant hold SW responsible for the fall 
in value of Ms Ds pension plan during the course of the process. And I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman