DRN-3107190
The complaint
Mr S complains that the advice he received from Standard Life Assurance Limited, to 
transfer his deferred defined benefit pension into a personal pension plan was unsuitable.
Mr S also complains that the redress calculation carried out by Standard Life, as part of the 
industry-wide pensions review, did not correctly reflect the loss he has suffered.
To put matters right Mr S wants Standard Life to pay the difference between the pension he 
will receive from his personal pension and the amount he would have received if he had 
remained a member of his former employers occupational scheme.
What happened
I understand that in 1992, Standard Life advised Mr S to transfer deferred benefits he held in 
a defined benefits pension scheme to a personal pension plan. The transfer value was 
around £4,600. 
In 2000, this advice was reviewed by Standard Life as part of the industry-wide pensions 
review, which firms were required to carry out on personal pension plans sold between 29 
April 1988 and 30 June 1994. 
Having carried out its review, Standard Life calculated that Mr S had suffered a prospective 
loss of £2,168.85 as a result of its advice to transfer. It offered to pay this amount into Mr Ss 
personal pension plan in full and final settlement. 
Mr S said he wanted to get some comparative figures from his former employer and didnt 
accept the offer of redress until May 2001. Because more than six months had passed since 
the redress calculation had been carried out, Standard Life explained that it was required to 
re-run the calculation. The outcome of the second loss assessment found that no redress 
was payable. It appears this was because Mr Ss personal pension had increased in value, 
and because the revised assumptions (set by the industry regulator) used in the redress 
calculation meant the forecast of the value of the benefits Mr S would have received from his 
occupational pension scheme had reduced.
At the time, Standard Life explained that the redress calculation had been carried out in-line 
with the regulators pensions review guidance. 
In October 2019, Mr S complained to Standard Life. He said the advice to transfer his 
deferred occupational pension scheme benefits to a personal pension had been unsuitable 
and he had lost out financially as a result of this advice. Mr S also said the redress 
calculation was incorrect, as he was likely to be significantly worse off in retirement than if he 
had left his deferred benefits in his occupational pension scheme.
Standard Life didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It noted that it had previously accepted that the 
advice to transfer Mr Ss deferred defined benefit pension into a personal pension plan was 
unsuitable and had carried out a redress calculation for Mr S, in line with the regulators 
requirements, at that time. It noted the redress calculation it had carried out in 2001 had 
found that Mr S hadnt suffered a loss and it therefore was not required to pay any 
compensation. As it had reviewed Mr Ss pension as part of the pensions review, it said it 
wasnt prepared to review the outcome it had already reached.
Mr S did not accept Standard Lifes decision and referred the matter to this service.
He said he felt Standard Life should accept that it had given him unsuitable advice and 
should revise their figures in line with what I would have received from my [name of 
employer] final salary pension. Mr S said he understood that he would have been entitled to 
an annual pension of £5,000 or a transfer value of between 130k and 190k if he had left his 
deferred benefits in his former employers occupational pension scheme.
Our investigator said that, having carefully considered Mr Ss complaint, he didnt think 
Standard Life had acted incorrectly in this matter. 
He said it was not in dispute that the advice Mr S had received to transfer his deferred 
defined benefit pension to a personal pension was unsuitable. He noted that redress 
calculations had been carried out in 2000 and 2001, using the assumptions set by the 
industry regulator at that time, to establish whether Mr S had suffered a loss. 
So, he said that by no later than May 2001, Mr S was aware that he might have cause for 
complaint if he felt the advice to transfer his deferred pension benefits to a personal pension 
plan was unsuitable. Under the rules this service must follow, Mr S then had three years to 
bring a complaint about the unsuitable advice. As Mr S had not complained about the 
unsuitable advice until 2019, he said this aspect of Mr Ss complaint had been brought too 
late for this service to be able to consider it.
But he said he thought he could consider the concerns raised by Mr S about the redress 
calculations Standard Life had carried out as part of the pensions review. He reviewed the 
data Standard Life had used when it carried out its review in May 2001. 
Having done so, he said he was satisfied that the correct information had been used and 
Standard Life had completed the calculations correctly. He noted that the review was 
checked in April 2002, October 2002, and December 2004 and some of the assumptions 
used were adjusted. In particular, the assumptions relating to how the benefits in Mr Ss 
occupational pension scheme would have increased in line with inflation, and the future 
value of the life cover provided were revisited. When the calculations were carried out again, 
using the adjusted assumptions, there was still no loss. 
He noted that Mr S had asked for evidence that Standard Life had asked the trustees of his 
occupational pension scheme if his benefits could be reinstated. Standard Life was unable to 
provide any evidence, but said that Mr Ss former occupational pension scheme did not allow 
reinstatement. It had therefore carried out a redress calculation to see if Mr S had been 
financially disadvantaged as a result of the unsuitable advice. 
Having considered this complaint our investigator said, based on the information he had 
seen, he was satisfied that Standard Life had carried out the pensions review redress 
calculations for Mr Ss pension correctly. And he said he was satisfied that it had asked the 
trustees whether Mr Ss benefits could be reinstated when it reviewed Mr Ss pension in 
2000. He acknowledged that the assumptions used in the review hadnt been achieved, but 
he said it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Standard Life responsible for this. 
Mr S did not accept our investigators view. In summary he said:
- he felt Standard Life had misled him when it advised him to move his deferred 
occupational scheme benefits to a personal pension in 1992;- when he transferred his deferred benefits he had been told it was supposed to be 
a like for like but better;
- it withdrew the redress it had offered in 2000; 
- it had not provided evidence to show that it had contacted his occupational pension 
scheme to see if his benefits could be reinstated; and
- as a result of the unsuitable advice he had lost out financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position, I dont think his complaint can 
be upheld. Ill explain why.
suitability of advice
When the review of Mr Ss personal pension plan was carried out as part of the pensions 
review, a calculation was carried out to establish whether Mr S had been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of transferring his deferred benefits to a personal pension plan.
Redress calculations were only carried out if the sale of the personal pension plan was found 
not to be compliant, or the business had conceded compliance (usually because it was not 
able to demonstrate from its records that the sale was compliant).
If the sale had been found to be compliant Standard Life wouldnt have carried out a redress 
calculation.
When Mr S wrote to Standard Life in June 2001, asking it to allow him to accept the redress 
it had offered in 2000, he said he understood it had allegedly given him bad advice when 
he transferred his deferred occupational scheme benefits in 1992. As our investigator 
explained, under the rules this service must follow Mr S had three years from the date he 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint, to bring a 
complaint. As Mr S knew by no later than June 2001, that he might have cause for complaint 
about the advice he had received in 1992, he had until June 2004 to bring a complaint about 
this issue, unless Standard Life agreed to this service considering a complaint brought 
outside this time limit.
As Standard Life did not agree to this service considering Mr Ss complaint about the advice 
he received in 1992, this service cannot consider this aspect of his complaint as it has been 
brought too late for this service to consider it.
As this is the case, although I appreciate the points Mr S has made about the advice he 
received to transfer his deferred benefits, I cannot consider the suitability of the advice he 
received in 1992. In any case, as I noted above, Standard Life accepted in 2000, that the 
advice was not suitable.
redress calculation
Mr S says that he doesnt think the redress calculation carried out by Standard Life in 2001 
was correct as he is likely to be significantly worse off in retirement than if he had remained 
in his occupational pension scheme.
I appreciate Mr Ss position. But, as our investigator explained, the pensions review was 
designed to be a once and for all process, based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable assumptions for future growth rates 
of both the pension policy, and where appropriate, augmentation of policy funds.
The review was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such as 
Standard Life was able to provide redress, for instances of mis-selling if the customer had 
suffered a loss, but also so that it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in 
the future.
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mr S that 
the error had been recognised and, if necessary, addressed at that point in time  as Ive 
said above, using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to 
revisit the matter many years later.
(Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at retirement rather than 
undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still acceptable  method of 
resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an augmentation sum if the 
calculations showed a financial loss.)
The methodology businesses were required to use contained a number of assumptions. The 
most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the 
required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out in reality. Likewise, the low interest rate environment from 2008/09 onwards has 
resulted in the cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, for many people, their 
pension funds at retirement arent sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits.
Although I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position, I cant require Standard Life to compensate 
him for any shortfall as the pensions review was designed to be a once and for all process. 
did Standard Life contact Mr Ss occupational pension scheme to see if his benefits could be 
reinstated
Mr S says:
They can provide no evidence that they contacted my previous pension provider to get me 
reinstated. I find this rather strange considering they have copies of other documents related 
to my case.
I appreciate that Mr S would like Standard Life to provide evidence to show that it contacted 
his former occupational pension scheme in 2000, when it carried out the pensions review, 
but Standard Life says it is unable to find the relevant records. 
I note however, that in the Offer of Redress it sent to Mr S dated 9 June 2000, it set out:
We are unable to reinstate you in the Adtranz Pension Plan (formerly Brel, ABB 
Transportation) because the Trustees of the Scheme do not allow this.
I think this shows that Standard Life did investigate whether it would be possible for Mr Ss 
benefits to be reinstated in 2000. I am also mindful that the industry regulator at the time was 
responsible for checking that businesses were following the pensions review guidance and 
part of the review process involved contacting occupational schemes to see if it was possible 
for membership to be reinstated. 
Standard Life withdrew the redress it offered in 2000The information provided to this service shows that in June 2000, Standard Life calculated 
that, based on the assumptions it was required to use in its redress calculations, Mr S had 
suffered a prospective loss of £2,168.85 as a result of its advice to transfer. It offered to pay 
this amount into Mr Ss personal pension plan in full and final settlement. 
Mr S said he wanted to get some comparative figures from his former employer and didnt 
contact Standard Life to accept the offer of redress until May 2001. 
In the Offer of Redress dated 9 June 2000, Standard Life set out:
This offer is valid until 07 July 2000 and we must have received the attached Acceptance of 
Offer form by that date if we are to proceed with this offer.
As Mr S did not accept the redress offered until May 2001, I am satisfied that Standard Life 
acted correctly when it re-worked the redress calculation. The outcome of the second loss 
assessment found that no redress was payable, as Mr Ss personal pension pot had 
increased in value and the assumptions (set by the industry regulator) used in the redress 
calculation had changed.
summary 
Standard Life has confirmed that the methodology and assumptions it used when it carried 
out the redress calculations were in line with the regulatory guidance at that time. 
As this is the case, and in the absence of anything from Mr S to show that the assumptions 
used were not in line with the regulatory guidance at that time, I cannot reasonably find that 
Standard Life acted incorrectly or failed to carry out the redress calculations in line with the 
regulatory guidance on pensions review redress calculations. 
Having reviewed the redress calculations carried out by Standard Life for Mr Ss personal 
pension plan, I cant see any errors in the assumptions or data used. I also note the 
pensions review was monitored by the industry regulator at that time. 
In view of this, and in the absence of anything to show that incorrect assumptions were 
used, I am satisfied that the redress calculations for Mr S were carried out in accordance 
with the regulatory guidance. As this is the case, I cant reasonably find that Standard Life 
had acted incorrectly in this matter.
However, if Mr S still thinks that incorrect assumptions were used, or the basis of the 
calculation was faulty for some other reason, its open to him to demonstrate why and, if he 
deems it necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation.
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, this wouldnt necessarily result 
in the outcome sought by Mr S to require Standard Life to pay the difference between the 
pension he will receive from his personal pension and the amount he would have received if 
he had remained a member of his former employers occupational scheme.
If we were satisfied that Standard Life had undertaken the calculations in good faith, but that 
minor errors had been made, its likely that we would simply require it to rerun the calculation 
using the correct information, but also the same methodology and key assumptions 
(including growth) which existed when the redress calculation was carried out in 2001.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman