DRN-4302764
The complaint
Mr K and Ms T complain that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) has unfairly handled a 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim made under their Family Legal Protection policy.
Any reference to Mr K, Ms T, or AmTrust includes respective representatives and agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known between all parties. For this reason, I will 
summarise events.
Ms T worked for Company A in a senior position for many years. She has explained 
Company A notified her of a significant change to her role that she was unhappy 
with. And she raised concerns about this  stating the proposed changes were a 
breach of contract, and that her employer had treated her less favourably on grounds 
of gender and age.
No agreement was met with Company A, so Ms T took legal action using her 
AmTrust LEI policy to cover legal expenses, which was accepted.
Ms T wanted AmTrust to fund two additional claims against Company A. The second 
related to unlawful discrimination on grounds of disability, including unlawful 
discrimination by way of harassment, and victimisation on account of having raised 
the issues within the first claim. The third concerned constructive dismissal, 
victimisation, and unlawful discrimination on the grounds of disability, age, and 
gender.
AmTrust accepted all three claims  but it said the three claims shared an indemnity 
limit of £50,000.
Ms T disagreed, believing the claims to be distinct, she stated each should hold its 
own policy limit. 
AmTrust issued its final response letter in April 2023. Within this it considered the 
points raised by Ms T but stood by its position, stating:
oIt was evident various incidents of discrimination were linked, and even if 
falling under separate Employment Tribunal claims, from an insurance 
perspective, the series of events leading to the claims all stemmed from 2019 
when Company A told Ms T her duties would be fundamentally changing.
oCompany A had still insisted on this change despite disability concerns 
brought to its attention by Ms T. And the second and third Tribunal claims 
arose out of further acts in these ongoing series of incidents. 
oAmTrust said it was clear from the legal opinions of both Ms Ts solicitor and 
Counsel that all claims are related and interwoven and stem from the series 
of incidents which began in 2019 and therefore, only one limit of indemnity 
would be provided.
Ms T brought the complaint to this Service, stating AmTrusts actions were 
unreasonable. One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
oHe said the policy terms said if the causes of action, incidents, or events were 
related by cause or time, it would be fair to allow AmTrust to provide a single 
indemnity limit  and this was the case here.
oMs T had described her reason for resigning as due to a series of 
discriminatory and victimising actions and conduct against her, including 
persistent threats motivated by discriminatory considerations and a breach of 
contract by unfairly moving her between roles. This supported that the 
resignation was connected to all the matters over time, with the lack of 
proposals being the last straw in a series of actions.
oHe said this was further supported by Counsels opinion - which referenced 
Ms Ts concerns about disability, and that if Company A had insisted on 
changing her position this may amount to a fundamental breach of her 
contract sufficient to justify resignation.
oThe Investigator said while the three legal claims were separate  and had 
separate Tribunal references, this did not mean it was unfair for AmTrust to 
conclude these matters were related or arose from the same cause. So, he 
was satisfied AmTrust could apply one policy limit of £50,000 for the three 
claims.
Ms T disagreed, stating the three cases were acknowledged by Company As legal 
team as separate, and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
The Investigator reiterated he agreed the three claims were presented separately  
but he believed the events/incidents were related by cause or time, which meant 
AmTrust could link the matters and apply one policy limit.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The submissions in this complaint are extensive. Within this decision I wont be responding 
in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy to any party, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of our Service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be, which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may mean 
I dont comment on everything Ms T or AmTrust has said but I have read and considered 
everything provided by all parties.
In this case the dispute centres simply on whether it is fair and reasonable for AmTrust to 
apply one indemnity limit of £50,000 to Ms Ts claims. This is because it considers all three 
Employment Tribunal claims to be part of one Insured Incident.
So, Ill start with the policy wording. Insured Incident is defined in the policy as:
The incident or the first of a series of incidents which may lead to a claim under this 
insurance. Only one Insured Incident shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes 
of action. Incidents or events that are related by cause or time.
From this, its clear to me that the policy only allows for one claim (or Insured Incident) to 
arise from a series of incidents, or all causes of action. And that these incidents or events 
may be linked by cause or time.
Theres no dispute here that Ms T has made several separate Employment Tribunal claims 
against Company A. The question I have to answer however, is not whether these were 
accepted or recognised by a Tribunal but whether the Employment Tribunal claims fall under 
one insured incident, as defined by the policy.
And if Im satisfied the three Employment Tribunal claims are related by cause or time, then 
Ill be satisfied AmTrust can apply a single indemnity limit to this claim.
Ms T has said the three matters arise in separate factual context and each raise individual 
and quite different legal considerations. And in distinguishing the three cases she said:
The first claim contended with age and gender discrimination concerns related to Ms 
Ts role being changed and the reasons behind this. 
The second arose out of separate factual circumstances related to unlawful 
discrimination by way of victimisation by Company A - and contended disability 
discrimination. She said these allegations were significantly different in character to 
the allegation giving rise to the initial claim.
The third arose due to a constructive dismissal claim aligned with complaints of 
unlawful discrimination on grounds of gender, age, and disability as well as unlawful 
discrimination by way of victimisation. And as the third claim arose from Ms Ts 
resignation  she says this cannot be associated in cause or in time with either of the 
first two claims.
On its face, it strikes me these were a series of incidents with the same employer  with 
issues that occurred over time and seemingly following on from each other.
AmTrust has pointed to the comments of Ms Ts own legal representation. It highlighted an 
email from Ms Ts own solicitors from 4 January 2023  which said:
The second set of proceedings are different in context and form in that they contend an ongoing pattern of discriminatory behaviour* against the Claimant and specifically 
on the part of a named Manager who is individually named as a Respondent in those 
proceedings.
I think the description of an ongoing pattern of events between Ms T and her former 
employer indicates these events are linked by cause and time.
AmTrust also quoted Ms Ts own Counsel opinion from November 2021 which stated:
The Claimant was subjected to a campaign of ongoing harassment from August 
2019. She felt that unrelenting pressure was being applied by [Company A] to 
insist that she undertake a [different position] even after a consultant  specialist 
(retained by the Respondent) advised against it. The final straw was when the 
Respondent requested a meeting to see if any accommodation could be reached and 
then at the meeting on 3.11.21 brought no proposals to the table. The Claimant 
immediately went off on stress related absence and sent her letter of resignation on 
15.11.21. The letter of resignation makes clear that the reason for termination was 
unequivocally linked to the breach.
AmTrust has said this also shows the events were linked with the eventual resignation under 
the third claim. 
Taking account the nature of the claims  discrimination and actions over time, including the 
change of contract  it shows that there was an alleged conduct of various discriminatory 
behaviours against Ms T culminating in her resignation and subsequent claim for 
constructive dismissal based on the discriminatory behaviours. Im satisfied that, while they 
may constitute separate claims, AmTrust has acted reasonably when concluding all the 
events are linked by cause and time. And so, I consider its decision that the three claims are 
subject to one indemnity limit to be fair.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman