DRN-3763365
The complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr H acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr H was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £325. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £19,217.
Mr H says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search and verifying Mr Hs 
income by looking at two months worth of his business and personal bank statements. It 
says Mr Hs credit search showed he had previously defaulted on borrowing, but he was 
making payments towards the amounts owing and that he didnt have any county court 
judgments or insolvency information recorded. It calculated his monthly credit commitments 
as £120. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr H didnt agree and said he was initially refused credit then offered a large amount based 
on the income from a start-up business which had debts on no profits after wages. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr H about his income. I say this because it received copies of both his 
business and joint account bank statements. Moneybarn also carried out a credit check. It 
said that its credit check showed that Mr H had defaulted accounts that he was making 
repayments towards and no county court judgments or insolvency records. It hasnt however 
provided a copy of the credit check it completed so Ive relied on a copy of the credit file 
supplied by Mr H. I think this gives a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have 
seen. At the time of the application it shows that Mr H had three accounts that had defaulted 
within the previous seven months. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr H was likely to 
be struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have 
got a more thorough understanding of Mr Hs financial circumstances before lending. As it 
had copies of Mr Hs bank statements I think it should have used these to verify his 
expenditure as well as his income. 
Moneybarn have provided a copy of Mr Hs bank statements which it used to verify his 
income. The statements provided include both Mr Hs joint account as well as his business 
account. I note Mr Hs comments about the business statements and have considered the 
payments being made to his joint account. These show that money was received into the 
joint account from benefits and from Mr Hs business. The total monthly income into the joint 
account was around £3,770. Considering Mr Hs income from his business alone for the two 
months prior to the agreement he received a monthly average of around £1,480. 
The joint statements show regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around 
£2,525. In calculating this figure, Ive included payments for credit commitments (including 
the agreement payments of £325), housing costs, utilities, food, fuel, and other ongoing 
costs. As the joint income was a round £3,700 considering the joint income and expenses it 
appears to show the agreement was affordable. Taking Mr Hs income of £1,480 and then 
considering half the costs this still doesnt suggest the agreement was unaffordable. For this 
reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman