DRN-3825857
The complaint
Mrs R complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly gave her a credit card 
account and credit limit increases that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs R applied for a credit card account with NewDay. She was given an 
initial credit limit of £450. The credit limit was increased three times; in October 2020 it 
rose to £1,200, in February 2021 it rose to £2,200 and in May 2021 it rose to £3,450.  
In 2022, Mrs R complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Rs complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit reference agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer at each stage of its lending. And they had thought for 
how Mrs R was managing her account in deciding the increases to the credit limit. Its 
possible that NewDay failed to make adequate checks before providing Mrs R with credit. 
But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused NewDay to think the 
credit limits were unaffordable. 
I say this because Mrs R told NewDay at the initial point of lending that she was employed 
and her income was regular and not modest. The initial credit limit was modest and the 
repayments on it would have been modest as well. 
Ive also noted that at the point of the initial lending and for the subsequent credit limit 
increases Mrs Rs credit history appeared to be in good order. I say that because Mrs R 
has provided her credit report and it seems to confirm what NewDay saw at the times it 
made its lending decisions. There are no defaults or CCJs on Mrs Rs credit file from 
these times. There was a payday loan on the record but that was settled over a year 
before the original lending was provided. And I have seen no details of arrears or adverse 
notes. So, there was nothing in that credit picture that would, I think, have put NewDay off 
lending the amounts it did at the times it did on Mrs Rs credit card. 
And for the credit limit increases, NewDay had informationit could consider about how Mrs 
R was managing her credit card account. I have noted that throughout Mrs Rs account 
time until after the last credit limit increase, There were no late payments and no overlimit 
fees applied to her account. So, there was nothing in the credit picture in general, or in the 
management of the credit card itself, that would, I think, have put NewDay off providing 
the credit limit increases it provided.
And reviewing Mrs Rs bank statements from the time, I have noted that the account 
remained largely balanced between credits and debits and was operated largely in credit. 
Again, I do not think these statements would have put NewDay off supplying the credit it 
did had they known about them at the time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs R to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs R was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mrs R was 
managing her account or what NewDay could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, in itself, because she has put time 
and energy into her complaint. I want Mrs R to know that we consider all cases on their own 
particular merits and I want Mrs R to know that I considered all the submissions made in this 
case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman