DRN-3775414
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd turned down a claim he made for damage caused by water 
leaking behind a tile in his bathroom.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead I will focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The policy provides cover for damage caused by an escape of water in specified 
circumstances. It lists different circumstances including, from fixed domestic water 
installations, heating systems or washing machines etc. In this case, water from a 
shower leaked behind a tile which had become detached from the wall. The cause of 
the damage therefore was the broken tile and as such, this is not insured under this 
section of the policy. 
Mr T has argued that, by nature of its operation, a shower meets the definition of an 
escape of water from a fixed domestic water appliance.  This isnt what the policy is 
intended to cover. However, even if I accepted Mr Ts thought process here, I would 
then have to consider the general conditions of the policy which concern reasonable 
care. So, by operating the shower Mr T wouldnt have taken reasonable care to 
prevent loss or damage  as he was allowing an escape of water to happen. And so, 
the policy still would not cover the claim he wishes to make. Insurance policies by 
nature arent intended to provide cover for deliberate acts or will cover every 
scenario.
QIC additionally said the policy excluded damage caused by failed sealant or grout. 
Mr T points out he only applied sealant to the tile after it had leaked, and he put 
masking tape over the tile. So, this is what the insurer saw the effects of when it 
visited to view the damage. While this does not influence my decision here due to 
what I have set out above, I believe what QIC was intending to explain was that the 
tile slipping originally was caused by failed sealant or grout  and therefore even if 
the claim had of been covered as an insured event, it would have still not been met 
due to this exclusion.
I appreciate the damage caused was unintended and Mr T wasnt aware of it until his 
ceiling collapsed. Insurance policies will cover damage caused accidentally, but 
usually only when an additional level of cover is purchased. Having checked Mr Ts 
policy schedule he did not purchase that additional cover and therefore it does not 
apply. QIC isnt required to repair the damage the water caused. 
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Ts complaint against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman