DRN-4221114
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that hes out of pocket after he contacted Sainsbury's Bank Plc to claim 
through his car insurance policy after he was involved in a non-fault accident.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M was involved in a car accident with a third party and his car was 
damaged. So he contacted the telephone number in his car insurance documents that was 
arranged by Sainsburys  to look to claim for the damage to his car. The claim was 
subsequently handled by a third-party company  who I shall refer to as A. 
Mr M was unhappy with the way A was handling the claim  in particular he said he was out 
of pocket because an issue with his cars tyre pressure monitoring system (TPMS) wasnt 
being resolved and he hadnt been refunded for the cost of his car seats which he said he 
needed to replace. So he raised a complaint with Sainsburys. Sainsburys said it had had 
nothing to do with the claim so it referred the complaint to another company  who I shall 
refer to as Z  which it said was the insurer. Mr M didnt agree with this as he said hed had 
no involvement with Z and said his complaint was about Sainsburys. So he referred his 
complaint to this Service.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He explained that, when Mr M first called to 
report the incident, he was immediately put through to A who handled the call on Sainsburys 
behalf. He said A then arranged to put him into an agreement known as credit hire and 
repair  whereby the repairs are carried out and a hire car provided on credit. A then looks to 
recover this cost directly from the third partys insurer. 
However the investigator explained that this arrangement is separate to the insurance policy, 
which meant Mr M didnt claim on his policy. The investigator also explained that this Service 
didnt have jurisdiction to consider As actions in handling Mr Ms claim as said the type of 
agreement Mr M entered into with A wasnt a regulated agreement. 
However, the investigator did explain that we could consider the actions of Sainsburys. He 
said Sainsburys were a broker, but also administered the policy on behalf of Z  who he 
explained were the insurer. He said Sainsburys should have ensured that Mr M was given a 
choice as to whether he wanted to claim on his insurance policy or to use the credit hire 
facilities A provided. He explained that Sainsburys had outsourced the handling of claim 
calls to A. But he thought A was essentially acting on behalf of Sainsburys in handling the 
initial call A had with Mr M when he called to report the claim. So the investigator thought 
Sainsburys could be held responsible for anything A did or didnt do during the call  
including not giving Mr M enough information to make an informed choice, which he didnt 
think A had done.
The investigator didnt think Mr M would have chosen to enter into the credit hire 
arrangement had he been given a clear choice. And he thought Mr M had lost out as a 
result. He said there had been a lot of confusion around what service each company was 
providing, due to no fault of Mr M. He also said Mr M had lost the option of using this Service 
by entering into an unregulated credit hire arrangement as opposed to claiming through his 
insurance policy. So he thought Sainsburys should pay Mr M £350 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M had suffered from not being given the choice to use his 
insurance policy. 
However the investigator didnt think Sainsburys was responsible for the way A had handled 
the claim. He said A wasnt acting on Sainsburys behalf and any concerns relating to As 
actions  including the fact Mr M was out of pocket  needed to be directed to A. And he 
said he couldnt take these issues into consideration.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He raised a number of reasons why, but in summary 
he said the following:
He disagreed with the investigator that Z was the insurer. He maintained that his contract 
was with Sainsburys and he said that there wasnt anything to show that it wasnt the 
insurer. 
He said he was out of pocket and he maintained that, as his insurer, Sainsburys should 
cover these costs.
He said £350 didnt come close to reflecting the level of distress and inconvenience this 
whole matter had caused him. He said hes spent hours having to manage the claim and 
get the matter resolved. He considered a fairer level of compensation to be around 
£1,000-£1,500.
Sainsburys also disagreed with the investigator. It maintained that it didnt have anything to 
do with this claim so didnt agree it needed to pay compensation for anything that may have 
gone wrong in the call.
As neither party agreed with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I intend to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator. 
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ms complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr M has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy 
about whats happened regarding this matter. Hes also provided detailed and extensive 
submissions about why he disagreed with the investigators opinion and also why he thinks 
Sainsburys is liable for all his losses. However, in this decision, I havent commented on 
each and every point hes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key 
points I need to think about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of this service. I assure Mr M, however, that I have read and considered 
everything hes provided.
I also need to make clear that, in this decision, Im only considering Sainsburys liabilities 
towards Mr M. Im aware that there have been a number of other businesss involved in this 
incident  particularly A and Z. But, apart from where A or Z could reasonably be held to be 
agents of Sainsburys, Im not able to comment on anything A or Z did or did not do.
I think theres a confusion from all parties about whats happened and who is responsible for 
what in regard to the performance of Mr Ms insurance contract. So I shall set this out first. 
Mr M took out the insurance policy through Sainsburys  a broker. I note Mr M has set out 
that he believes Sainsburys is the insurer, but it is not. All the policy documentation, clearly 
sets out that the insurer is Z. Critically, in this regard, I note the following:The Certificate of Insurance is a document that an insurer issues and verifies that the 
policyholder has the minimum level of cover for their vehicle as required by law. And it 
sets out who can drive the car and what type of driving (such as social, domestic and 
pleasure cover and also whether it will be used for business purposes). Crucially this 
document must be issued by the insurer. Mr Ms Certificate of Insurance is issued and 
signed by Z.
The schedule of insurance specifically says the policy was underwritten by Z. It also 
confirms that it was arranged & administered by Sainsburys.
Z has also confirmed to this Service that it is the insurer of the policy.
I note Mr M has provided a lot of documentation and comments about why he considers 
Sainsburys to be his insurer. And I do not dispute that he was clearly under the impression 
that Sainsburys was his insurer, but it does not mean that it was. Ive considered all of his 
comments in detail and reflected upon them, but for the reasons Ive set out above, 
Sainsburys was clearly the broker and administered the policy on Zs behalf.
I also note that Sainsburys says it has had no involvement in this matter, so it has queried 
why its being held responsible. But, as I said above, the schedule of insurance sets out that 
its Sainsburys responsibility to administer the policy. Ive also reviewed the policys terms 
and conditions which set out:
Making a claim
Once you have called, we will:
 register your claim;
 provide you with a claim number to quote in future correspondence;
 talk you through the process, including confirming what youre covered for;
 arrange next steps.
The terms define we as Sainsburys. So, when a policyholder  i.e. Mr M in this instance  
calls to make a claim, Sainsburys was required to register the claim, explain what they were 
covered for and arrange to move the claim forward. However, Sainsburys has explained its 
claims line was administered by A. I dont dispute that, but, as I said above, Sainsburys was 
ultimately required under the contract to perform this function  albeit on behalf of Z. And A 
was, in essence, acting as an appointed representative of Sainsburys in the handling of the 
reporting of the claim. In this case, Mr M reasonably thought he was calling Sainsburys to 
report the claim. So I think A would be considered to have been acting as an agent of 
Sainsburys when handling this call.
Its important to set out that, when Mr M first looked to contact Sainsburys following the 
accident, he was doing so with the intention to claim for the damage to his car through his 
insurance policy. However, following the call, A took over the handling of the claim by 
entering Mr M into a credit hire agreement. This was an arrangement outside of the terms 
of the insurance policy  i.e. no claim was ever made under the insurance policy and Z has 
confirmed this. Mr M says he wasnt told this was happening and says he wouldnt have 
entered into such an agreement and also wanted to claim through his insurance policy. And 
he says hes out of pocket as a result of this. Im persuaded by what Mr M has said here.
A is not a party to this complaint, so I cannot comment on the way it has handled Mr Ms 
claim. We also do not have jurisdiction over the provision of credit hire services, as these are 
not regulated activities covered by our dispute resolution rules. Mr M is adamant that he 
believes A was acting on Sainsburys behalf in the handling of his claim. But it wasnt. As I 
said above, Mr M entered into a credit hire agreement with A. This is an entirely separate 
contract to his insurance policy. He didnt claim through his insurance policy, so neither Sainsburys or Z is liable for anything A did or did not do as part of the credit hire 
arrangement  including repairing Mr Ms car and its acts of recovering losses from the third 
party. 
We can, however, look at how a consumer entered into such an arrangement instead of 
claiming through their insurance policy. In short, I need to think about whether Mr M was 
given enough information to make an informed choice about whether he wanted to claim 
through his insurance policy or to have the repairs carried out through the use of credit hire 
and repair. In particular I would have expected, as a minimum, that Mr M would have been 
told the following:
In entering into a credit hire agreement, he wasnt claiming through his insurance policy, 
but he had the option to do so. And he should have been given a clear choice about 
whether he wanted to claim through his insurance policy instead.
The credit hire provider was a separate business to the insurer.
He may be liable for any outlay  including hire charges  if theyre unable to recover the 
costs from the third party.
As he was stepping outside of his regulated insurance policy he may not be able to refer 
any complaint he may have to this Service.
In short, I would have expected Mr M to have had explained to him what the benefits and 
risks of using credit hire were, as well as explaining his rights under the insurance policy. In 
addition to this, I would expect there to have been a consideration of whether Mr M had a 
need for credit hire. In particular, it should have considered whether Mr M needed to be 
provided with a like for like replacement car, taking into account what he was entitled to 
under his own policy.
Sainsburys hasnt given us a copy of the call recording for when Mr M reported the claim, so 
I have to base my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened. I think its clear 
from Mr Ms actions and testimony that he didnt understand the agreement he was entering 
into. And, on balance, I think he was of the genuine belief and understanding that it was his 
insurer, or at the very least the agent of his insurer, who was dealing with his claim. I havent 
seen anything to show that he was informed of all the potential pit falls of having his claimed 
handled through credit hire services or that he was given sufficient information to make a 
clear and informed choice.
So I now need to think whether Mr M has lost out because of what went wrong and, if so, to 
what extent I think Sainsburys is required to compensate him for his losses. But I should 
reiterate again, that I can only consider any upset or losses that Sainsburys (or any actions 
carried out by a separate business acting on Sainsburys behalf) have caused  i.e. losses 
that are a direct consequence of him not being given an informed choice.
As I said above, Im persuaded by what Mr M has told us that he wouldnt have chosen to 
enter into a credit facility arrangement, such as the one, he entered into with A. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that Sainsburys is liable for all losses that Mr M may have suffered as a 
result of entering into the agreement with A. In thinking about this, Ive asked the following 
questions:
1. Is the loss a direct result of what went wrong and, if so;
2. Is it reasonably foreseeable that such a loss would flow from this?
In essence, Mr M says hes lost out because he hasnt been refunded for the cost of his car 
seats and also he had a continual issue with the TPMS. Hes also recently set out that 
issues arose in the latest MOT his car had. But, I dont think I can fairly say that it would be 
reasonably foreseeable that, the passing of claim to credit hire, may have the effect that a repair may not be carried out correctly  i.e. the issues with the MOT and TPMS.  Ultimately, 
I think these losses arise from the way A has handled the credit hire agreement as opposed 
to the way the first call was handled. So I cant say Sainsburys is liable for these losses.
However, while I dont think Sainsburys is liable for the way the car was repaired, I do think 
its liable for other losses. Mr M has set out that hes required to replace his car seats after 
an accident and hes unhappy he hasnt had the cost of the seats paid to him. Ive thought 
about whether this situation would be different had he claimed through his insurance policy 
and I think it would have, as the terms of the policy say:
Child car seats
If you have a child car seat fitted to your car and your car is involved in an accident, 
damaged by fire or theft or is stolen and not recovered, your insurer will cover you for the 
cost of replacing the child car seat with a new one of a similar standard, even if there is no 
apparent damage. 
This means that, had Mr M claimed through his insurance policy, he would have received the 
cost of his car seats at the start  i.e. he wouldnt be out of pocket. As I think Mr M would 
have claimed on his policy if hed been given an informed choice, I think hes lost out here 
and hes out of pocket as a result of the way the first claim call was handled. So, unless it 
can show that Mr M has already received this money from A, I think Sainsburys should 
refund this cost. However, I also think Sainsburys can require Mr M to assist it to recover 
this cost from the third partys insurer if needed.
Finally, I think Mr M has suffered a fair amount of distress and inconvenience as a result of 
whats happened. I do think a large amount of this distress stems from the way A has 
handled the claim, which Sainsburys isnt liable for. That said, Mr M has lost out in not being 
given sufficient choice as to whether to use his insurance policy. This has resulted in a lot of 
confusion and him being out of pocket. Hes also felt he had the need to communicate 
extensively to resolve this matter. The investigator recommended that Sainsburys paid £350 
in compensation, which is in line with what I would have awarded. So I think its fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Sainsbury's Bank Plc to do the following to put things right:
1. Settle Mr Ms claim for the car seats as if hed claimed on his car insurance policy. It 
should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of loss until he gets it back 
or the date Mr M received the funds as part of his claim through A, whichever comes 
first*. Sainsburys can require Mr M to assist it to recover this cost from the third partys 
insurer; and
2. Pay Mr M £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of not being given an informed choice as to whether to use his car insurance policy 
to claim for his losses.
* If Sainsbury's Bank Plc thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman