DRN-3862041
The complaint
Mr M is complaining, as a trustee of a trust, about the amount paid out in relation to a life 
assurance policy that the trust took out on the life of his late mother, Mrs M, in 1989. The 
policy provider was Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
In 1989, Mr M took out a life assurance policy written on the life of his mother. It was a 
combined whole of life and decreasing term assurance policy with an initial sum assured of 
£30,000. Mr Ms understanding was that as the value of the term assurance decreased, 
bonuses would be added to the sum assured on the whole of life aspect of the policy with 
the aim of keeping the total value of the sum assured at or above £30,000.  
When Mr Ms mother died in August 2021, the payout from the policy was around £20,600. 
Mr M says hed paid total premiums of around £23,640 for the policy. Mr M had expected to 
make a profit  but instead he paid around £3,000 more in premiums than he received. He 
complained to Aviva about the performance of the policy.
Aviva wrote to Mr M. They explained that the bonuses arent guaranteed and depend on the 
performance of the fund in which the policy is invested in comparison to the expected yield 
at the start of the policy. They gave a commentary on market performance, particularly since 
2007, and said that the yield expected at the start of the policy proved not to be achievable 
later on in the policy. 
Mr M remained upset and brought his complaint to our service. In particular he said Aviva 
seem to have made far more money out of the policy than he has  and that theyve never 
disclosed to him the annual management charge or the commission paid in relation to the 
policy. He also said the financial markets had recovered significantly between 2020 and his 
mothers death in August 2021 so he felt that Avivas explanation was lacking. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said the 
documentation relating to the policy confirmed how the policy operated. She added that the 
performance of the fund isnt guaranteed, and so the bonuses arent guaranteed either. Mr M 
wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked for a decision. He said it was beyond 
absurd that he hadnt made any profit on a thirty-year investment. The matters now come to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mr M, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms complaint is essentially that hes lost money on an investment due to the poor 
performance of the funds in which it was invested. But this policy was a life assurance policy, 
not a pure investment. So a portion of the premiums paid each month needed to fund the life 
assurance charges with the remainder invested. Had Mrs M died a few years earlier, Mr M 
would likely have received a similar payout but would have paid less in and probably made a 
profit. 
Ive thought about what the policy was supposed to provide. The original policy document 
says:
The company will pay on the death of the Life Assured 
a) £6,492 plus bonuses 
b) £23,508 reducing each year, and payable before 24.4.2019.
In relation to bonuses, the policy document says the policy is a with-profits policy which 
means that it is entitled to receive a share of the profits of the companys life fund in the 
form of the bonus This paragraph continues but theres no guarantee or expectation set 
out in relation to the value of those bonuses. 
Mr M received £6,492 plus bonuses. Whilst hes disappointed with the value of the bonuses, 
I cant say Aviva have done anything wrong  this is in line with what the policy document 
said. 
Aviva have explained to Mr M that the markets over the last 15 years meant the underlying 
fund didnt perform as well as was anticipated when the policy was taken out. Thats 
understandable  for the policy to maintain the £30,000 sum assured, market conditions 
would have had to meet predictions over a thirty-year timeframe. 
The policy document also gives an overview of commissions and explains how to find out 
more about the commissions should the policyholder wish. So its fair to say Mr M could 
have asked for more information about the commissions if that was of concern to him.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman