DRN-3573222
The complaint
Miss C complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent her two loans she 
couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Mr Lender lent Miss C loan 1 in April 2018 for £200. She repaid this in September 2018 and 
then took loan 2 for £500. The facts relating to the 2 loans are not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and I will explain 
why.
Mr Lender gathered some information from Miss C before it agreed to each loan. It asked 
her for her monthly income. It then asked her questions about expenditure. It finally then 
carried out a credit search on each occasion.
I think on balance its checks were proportionate for both loans. I say this as this was early on 
in the lending relationship between the parties and I think at this stage Mr Lender was 
entitled to rely on what Miss C had declared. I think this is particularly the case when I 
consider how much the loans were for and the term that she needed to repay each one back 
by. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Mr Lender gathered from Miss C to check whether I agree it was appropriate for her to be 
given the loans.
Miss C had declared to Mr Lender that her monthly income was £1112 for loan 1 and £1200 
for loan 2. She then declared after a series of questions that her overall expenditure would 
be £740 for loan 1 and £760 for loan 2.  I can see that Mr Lender had worked out Miss C had 
enough disposable income to be able to afford the repayments on both loans. The credit 
search results that I can see are basic, but they wouldnt have flagged any concerns to Mr 
Lender, at least not enough that it ought to have considered more checks. From the 
information it gathered, I think it would have been apparent to Mr Lender that the loans were 
affordable and there was nothing that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it 
Miss C was struggling to manage her finances.
So, overall, I agree with the investigator. I dont think Mr Lenders proportionate checks 
would have suggested that Miss C would have problems repaying the loans. So, I dont think 
Mr Lender was wrong on this occasion to give loan 1 and then loan 2 to Miss C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman