DRN-3846713
The complaint
Miss Z has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency policy.
References to British Gas include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss Z contacted British Gas when she found a leak in her home. When an engineer visited, 
he couldnt find a leak. Over the next few months, several engineers visited before the leak 
was then found.
Miss Z complained to British Gas. She said it should have found the leak much sooner and 
that damage had been caused to her home because of the delay in finding it. When British 
Gas replied, it said it was an intermittent leak, which made it hard to detect. It said it wouldnt 
cover the damage to Miss Zs home. However, it offered £215 compensation because of the 
multiple visits and delays.
So, Miss Z complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
British Gas could have done more to find the leak sooner. This has led to months of 
appointments and disruption for Miss Z. He said British Gas should pay an additional £215 
compensation.
British Gas didnt agree and with our investigator but offered an additional £100 
compensation. Miss Z said the compensation recommended by our investigator was too low. 
So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Im mindful that the leak at Miss Zs home was intermittent which, as British Gas has said, 
was likely to make it more difficult to detect. On multiple occasions when British Gas visited it 
was unable to find a leak, including when it used leak detection equipment.
When British Gas replied to the complaint, it listed four visits by an engineer. However, while 
the complaint was with this service Miss Z listed each of British Gas visits, which was 
actually about 10 visits. So, I dont think British Gas fully took into account the timeframes or 
number of visits its engineers made when it looked at the complaint. I also note there seem 
to have been sometimes lengthy waits for engineers to visit, including because British Gas 
had to rearrange appointments. It isnt possible to say with any certainty whether British Gas 
would have found the leak sooner if it had visited earlier, but I think the delays in sending 
engineers added to Miss Zs distress and inconvenience. As a result, I think British Gas 
should pay an additional £215 compensation, as I think this more fairly reflects the impact on 
Miss Z.
Im also aware Miss Z has said she thinks British Gas should pay for the damage to her 
home. So, Ive thought about this. British Gas visited to deal with a leak. The policy didnt 
provide cover for damage caused by the leak itself. Ive seen photos of Miss Zs home, but I 
havent seen evidence that persuades me British Gas needs to pay for damage caused by 
the leak, even taking into account the delays and multiple visits. I think Miss Z was also likely 
to have to consider making a home insurance claim anyway. Im aware Miss Z doesnt want 
to make an insurance claim, as she is concerned it will affect her insurance premium. I can 
understand her concern, but I dont think that means British Gas must therefore deal with the 
damage instead.
So, having thought about all of the above, I uphold this complaint in part and require British 
Gas to pay an additional £215 compensation.
Putting things right
British Gas should pay an additional £215 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay an additional £215 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman