DRN-3945879
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt comply with her instructions 
when she took benefits under her personal pension policy.
What happened
Mrs P had a Guernsey GA Personal Pension policy with General Accident Life Services 
Limited (GA). GA is now part of Aviva and it is Aviva that is required to deal with this 
complaint. I shall refer to Aviva throughout this decision.
In 2021, Mrs P decided to take early retirement. She was in contact with her financial 
adviser at the time but she says Aviva wouldnt let her financial adviser transfer the policy to 
a UK based policy - and for that reason she was left to deal with everything herself.
She received a retirement pack from Aviva. This included various options. Mrs P selected 
one of the options and returned the forms to Aviva on 1 March 2021. She says she wasnt 
happy with the options on the list because none of them suited her. She heard nothing 
further and so she contacted Aviva on 15 March. It said it hadnt received her forms. It 
emailed new forms to her which she completed and returned to Aviva the same day.
Mrs P didnt tick any of the options on the new forms. Instead she entered a hand-written 
instruction which said:
I would like 10% tax free lump sum to be paid by 24 March 2021. As from April 24 
2021, a monthly tax free income of £900 ongoing until I die.
She also included a covering letter in which she reiterated that she wanted 10% tax free 
cash to be paid in March 2021 and then a monthly income of £900 starting in April 2021  
all tax free. She also said she was no longer receiving financial advice and so was 
completely in the hands of Aviva.
There were further delays caused because Aviva held an incorrect National Insurance 
number for Mrs P on its systems. Mrs P was in contact with it during this time and although 
it agreed to call her back it didnt do that.
Aviva made a payment of the 10% tax free lump sum (£13,399.28) into Mrs Ps bank 
account on 21 April. On 10 May 2021 it sent Mrs P a further letter to say that it had used 
the rest of the money in her pension policy to purchase an annuity for her. It said the 
amount shed receive each month for the rest of her life would be £371.16 (gross) per 
month (guaranteed for 5 years). The pension amount was static.
Mrs P complained to Aviva. It investigated her complaint. It said that when she returned the 
forms to it at the start of March 2021, shed ticked an option to take 25% of her policy as a 
tax free lump sum. The figures quoted for the option she ticked were a tax free lump sum of 
£40,018.67 and a single life annuity of £2,972.64 per year. It said it had complied with her 
request to reduce the tax free cash amount to 10%, and as a result the annuity amount was 
increased to £4,453.92 per year. Aviva said it wasnt possible for it to arrange an annuity of
£900 per month. It also said that tax would be deducted from the annuity depending on the 
tax code advised to it by HMRC.
Aviva acknowledged thered been delays and it hadnt called her back after it said it would. 
It offered to pay her £150 by way of apology for this.
 
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with this response. She referred her complaint to our service. She 
said Aviva hadnt allowed her financial adviser to transfer her policy to a UK based 
arrangement and this meant shed had to deal with everything herself. Aviva had ignored 
her specific instructions and railroaded her into making choices which, with the correct 
advice, she said she wouldnt have made.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He thought Aviva hadnt done enough to make 
Mrs P aware of all her options  in particular the option to transfer her policy to another 
provider willing to accept her plan, which might also have enabled her to avail of a 
drawdown arrangement. He said Aviva had accepted the changed instruction in Mrs Ps 
letter dated 15 March 2021 and had paid her a tax free cash sum of 10% but it had ignored 
her request for a guaranteed monthly pension of £900 tax free. He thought it should have 
communicated to Mrs P that this wasnt possible or reiterated to her that she might want to 
consider whether a drawdown option might be available.
Before issuing his view our investigator spoke to Aviva to let it know how he thought the 
complaint should be resolved. Aviva didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said the 
annuity had been set up in line with the option Mrs P had ticked on its form. It also said her 
policy didnt allow for drawdown and this option hadnt been mentioned in its retirement 
pack.
Our investigator thought about what Aviva had said but he didnt change his view. He noted 
that drawdown had been mentioned in the retirement pack and the policy provisions did 
permit Mrs P to transfer it to another provider.
He thought that in order to resolve the complaint Aviva should unwind the annuity and 
reinstate the pension into a plan that would allow Mrs P to avail of a drawdown option, 
should she wish to access that option. He said that the policy should be reinstated at the 
same value as the date when Mrs Ps benefits had been crystallised less any tax free cash 
and annuity payments which shed received.
Our investigator also considered the distress and inconvenience Mrs P had experienced as 
a result of the delays and the failure to call her back. He noted that Aviva had offered to pay 
her £150 to compensate her. He thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mrs P accepted what our investigator had said. As Aviva didnt respond within the given 
deadline, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Aviva responded to what our investigator said. Aviva said:
Mrs Ps policy did not include a flexible drawdown option;
Under Guernsey law (which is the law which applied to the policy) there is no 
explicit provision which permits policy funds to be used for any other purpose once an annuity contract has been purchased. So the annuity policy Mrs P has 
could only be unwound if the Director of Income Tax in Guernsey approved such 
action. This means the resolution proposed by the investigator might not be 
feasible.
Aviva could not provide flexi-access drawdown on its platform for funds from a 
Guernsey policy.
The only options open to Mrs P, under the terms of her policy, when she 
decided to retire were tax free cash and a life annuity. There was no option for a 
fixed term annuity or flexible drawdown.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the instructions Mrs P provided to Aviva and in particular the 
amended instructions she sent to it under cover of her letter dated 15 March 2021. 
Having done so, Im currently not persuaded Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably 
here. Ill explain why.
In her letter dated 15 March, Mrs P made several points which I think shouldve 
alerted Aviva to the fact that she was not making a fully informed choice and did not 
understand the implications of the choices she had ticked. For example she said:
I would like a monthly income of £900 to be paid starting April. All tax 
free.
This statement indicated that she thought it would be possible to achieve an annual 
annuity, for the rest of her life, equating to £10,800 per annum, tax free. Aviva would 
have known that this was an expectation that could not be achieved given the value 
of her pension pot. If Mrs P required an income of £900 per month, Aviva should 
have explained to her that that could not be achieved by way of a guaranteed 
annuity for the rest of her life.
She also said:
Bearing in mind that I will still have use of 15% tax free as I am entitled to 
25% tax free and only require 10% tax free.
This statement indicated that Mrs P misunderstood certain factual matters. Her 
pension policy was unusual in that she would have been permitted to take up to 
30% tax free cash  and not 25%. Secondly, once she had taken a 10% tax free 
amount of cash, the balance in her pension would be used to purchase an annuity 
and any future payments would be subject to income tax, in line with the tax 
thresholds that applied to her.
Mrs P was making important decisions that would impact on her financial wellbeing 
for the rest of her life. She had explained in her letter that this would be her only 
income  so Aviva ought to have known that it was important she fully understood 
the choices she made.In her letter she also said she was no longer receiving financial advice and was 
completely in the hands of Aviva. Although this information differed from an 
answer she provided on the form itself, given the contents of the rest of the letter, 
Im satisfied, on balance, it should have alerted Aviva to the fact that Mrs P was not 
making a fully informed decision.
I agree that Aviva wasnt required to provide advice to Mrs P. It could have made 
that clear to her, after receipt of her letter of 15 March and it could have sign-posted 
her to organisations that could provide her with guidance before she made these 
very important decisions.
If Aviva had provided Mrs P with additional information, in response to what shed 
said in her letter and referred her to one of the organisations that assists  
consumers when making decisions about their retirement, I think Mrs P wouldve 
been able to make a fully informed decision. That doesnt mean, however, she 
wouldve been able to achieve what she wanted.
As I mentioned above, her pension pot would not have enabled her to purchase a 
lifetime annuity of £900 per month.
Aviva has now provided more detailed information about the nature of Mrs Ps policy 
and it is the case that there were certain features of the policy which restricted how 
she could take the benefits, including:
It did not include an option for flexi access drawdown and it did not 
include an option to purchase a fixed term annuity;
Aviva did not accept transfers into any of its UK personal pension 
policies from a pension policy held in Guernsey; and
Mrs P could transfer the benefits to another UK provider but only if that 
provider was willing to accept a transfer in.
Mrs P says she initially asked a financial adviser to assist her with this matter but 
the adviser told her Aviva wouldnt allow him to deal with the policy. Because of that 
she says she had to deal with Aviva herself. Aviva says it was contacted by Mrs Ps 
adviser and I can see that, in February 2021, it provided details about the policy to 
the adviser. It also sent information to Mrs P at that time. So, Im satisfied Aviva was 
prepared to deal with Mrs Ps adviser and did provide information to him.
Having considered everything I think, on balance, its likely the adviser reviewed the 
information about Mrs Ps policy and concluded it wouldnt be possible to transfer 
the benefits to a UK policy. There is some indication on the file that Mrs P told Aviva 
during a telephone conversation in March that her adviser informed her there was 
no UK company he was aware of that would accept a transfer in from a Guernsey 
plan. In those circumstances its likely that the adviser decided there was no need 
for him to be further involved and Mrs P could deal directly with Aviva herself.
Mrs P told us she was anxious to get the benefits paid to her as quickly as possible, 
given her circumstances. That is supported by the fact she contacted Aviva several 
times to check on progress after she submitted her Choices form.Having thought about everything here, given the time constraints and the 
information she received from her adviser about the difficulty of finding a UK 
provider that would accept a transfer in, Ive provisionally decided, on balance of 
probability, it is unlikely Mrs P wouldve decided to pursue that option or possibly not 
even have been able to. And, in those circumstances, her only options were to take 
a mixture of tax free cash (up to 30% of the value of her policy) with the remainder 
taken as a life-time annuity. Mrs P does appear to have considered what 
combination of tax free cash and annuity payment she wanted. Aviva complied with 
her request for 10% tax free cash. The difficulty was that Mrs P couldnt get a life-
time annuity payment of the amount shed hoped for  the value of her pension fund 
simply didnt support this level of payment.
So, I think that even if Aviva had provided her with more information and had made 
it clearer that the option she wanted wasnt available, she likely would have ended 
up with the annuity she has got now. And, in these circumstances, I dont think its 
reasonable to unwind the annuity now.
I have considered the distress and inconvenience Mrs P experienced here. In her 
complaint Mrs P raised issues about the service shed received from Aviva. She 
complained that Aviva had failed to call her back after saying it would. She also 
complained about delays shed experienced when Aviva hadnt recorded her 
National Insurance Number correctly on its records.
Aviva has accepted there were service failings but explained that some of these 
issues were caused by lockdown rules which applied due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. It offered to pay Mrs P £150 by way of apology.
Having considered everything, Im not satisfied with the explanations Aviva has 
given for its service failings. As mentioned above Mrs P contacted it several times to 
check the progress of her claim. She was given timescales about when she could 
expect to receive payment - which proved to be incorrect.
It was important that Aviva should provide clear information to Mrs P. Aviva knew, or 
ought to have known, after it received her letter of 15 March that Mrs P didnt 
understand the information it had provided. In these circumstances, Aviva should 
have taken appropriate steps, despite issues created by lockdown rules, to contact 
Mrs P to clarify her instructions and explain she couldnt get a lifetime annuity 
payment of the amount she sought. It is only recently that Aviva has provided fuller 
explanations about the restrictive features of the policy to our service  and after our 
investigator had issued his view. It should have done that much earlier in the 
process.
Mrs P has told us about the distress and worry she experienced when she didnt get 
payments in line with the timescales Aviva had provided. Having listened to the calls 
she had with Aviva its clear she was getting more and more desperate to receive 
her money. And she wasnt given clear information. Having taken everything into 
account I dont think the offer to pay Mrs P £150 is adequate. Ive provisionally 
decided that to recognise the impact of its poor service, Aviva should pay Mrs P 
£400 by way of compensation.Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs P responded to my provisional decision. She asked for further clarity about what the 
provisional decision would mean for her. She said she knew her fund wasnt enough to last 
her until the end of her life but she thought that the amount shed stipulated would have 
lasted about nine or ten years. She said it was her money after all.
Aviva also responded. It accepted the provisional decision. It explained it had already paid 
Mrs P £150 pursuant to the offer it had made. 
Our service wrote to Mrs P to provide her with further clarifications as requested and 
explained to her that the amount of compensation set out in the provisional decision had not 
taken account of the fact that Aviva had already paid her £150 for distress and 
inconvenience in May 2021. This meant that Aviva would be required to pay only a further 
amount of £250 (£400 in total).
Mrs P provided a further response to say that she felt completely let down. She thought 
Aviva was perfectly capable of sorting the matter out and should be able to transfer her 
policy back from Guernsey. She acknowledged that she had already received £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. As set out above Aviva has 
provided evidence that it has already paid Mrs P £150 pursuant to its offer to do so and 
Mrs P has confirmed that this is the case. In my provisional decision I had indicated that I 
thought Aviva needed to pay more than it had already offered. I thought it should pay her 
£400. That was a total payment for distress and inconvenience. As it has already paid £150, 
it should now pay her the balance amount of £250 (being £400 in total).
In her response to my provisional decision, Mrs P made reference to that fact that she knew 
her fund wasnt enough to last her until the end of her life. Ive thought about what shes said 
here and Ive looked again at her handwritten letter dated 15 March 
In that letter Mrs P said:
I would like 10% tax free lump sum to be paid by 24 March 2021. As from April 24 
2021, a monthly tax free income of £900 ongoing until I die.
(my underlining added for emphasis)
So, I think this made clear she did expect to be paid a monthly income of £900 until she 
died. 
I explained in my provisional decision that the nature of Mrs Ps policy was such that she had 
limited options. It did not permit a flexi access arrangement and it didnt permit an annuity to 
be paid for a fixed period of time  it only permitted lifetime annuities. 
Ive also explained in my provisional decision why I think given the time constraints and the 
fact that Aviva didnt accept transfers into any of its UK arrangements from Guernsey its 
likely, on balance, Mrs P would still have ended up with the annuity she now has. I 
understand why Mrs P might take the view that Aviva should have been willing to transfer 
her policy from Guernsey to the UK  but Aviva has explained that it didnt accept transfers into any of its UK arrangements from Guernsey. That is a matter which is within its own 
commercial judgement and Im satisfied its not treating Mrs P differently from any of its other 
policy holders who have a Guernsey policy. So, although I know it will disappoint Mrs P, Im 
not persuaded she has been treated unfairly or unreasonably here.
Apart from the information about the payment of £150, I havent received any new or further 
information which causes me to change my view about how this complaint should be 
resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. I now require it to take the following actions:
Pay Mrs P £400 (in total) by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of what happened here. As 
Aviva has already paid Mrs P £150, that means it should now pay her the 
difference of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman