DRN-2162830
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) poorly handled her claim under her 
landlord emergency cover. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes its appointed 
agents and representatives.
What happened
Miss B made a claim under her policy for a leaking tap at the insured property. Avivas 
appointed engineer attended the property on the same day the claim was made. The 
engineer replaced the hot and cold cartridges in the tap to fix the leak. But a few days later 
Miss B contacted Aviva to say the tap was still leaking. 
Aviva offered Miss B another appointment with an engineer for a few days later, but said she 
never confirmed she wanted this to go ahead. A few weeks later Miss B complained to 
Aviva. She said shed arranged for the tap to be fixed privately and wanted a refund of her 
policy excess as Aviva had failed to fix it.
Aviva didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. It said she hadnt allowed it the opportunity to 
reattend before arranging for a private replacement. And that shed also failed to provide it 
with a report or invoice from this replacement to show the work that had been carried out. So 
it said it wouldnt refund her excess as there was no evidence the tap wasnt repaired in full 
by its engineer.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Aviva had fairly handled the claim, so 
didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with his findings, so the complaint was passed 
to me to make final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why. 
Miss B made a claim for a leaking tap. She says she told Aviva the tap was faulty and 
needed to be replaced, but Aviva simply changed the washers. Miss B says that as a result 
of this, the tap continued to leak and so she thinks Aviva failed to carry out an effective 
repair. Miss B says she then had to pay to have the tap replaced privately, so she wants 
Aviva to refund the excess she paid under the policy. 
Miss Bs policy covers her property for issues relating to plumbing and drainage. But Like 
most policies of this nature, the cover is subject to certain limitations and exclusions. And 
under the terms of the policy, it says Miss B isnt covered for the replacement of a tap 
(unless necessary as part of a repair)
The job sheet from Avivas engineer includes a description of the repair that was carried out 
to rectify the problem, alongside supporting photos of the tap and cartridges. The report 
concludes the tap was working fine after the repair. Im aware the engineer had to reattend 
the property again a few days later to repair an issue with one of the toilets. And from the 
notes, I cant see anything was mentioned during this visit about the tap still dripping. 
So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied a repair to the tap was completed by Avivas 
engineer during their first visit. But it needs to have been an effective repair, so Ive gone on 
to consider the evidence in relation to this.
Miss B thinks the repair wasnt effective because the tap shouldve been replaced. But under 
the policy, she isnt entitled to replacement unless its necessary as part of the repair. Avivas 
engineer, whos arguably the expert in this area, didnt deem that it was. And besides 
Miss Bs opinion, Ive not seen any supporting evidence that reasonably contradicts Avivas 
engineers findings. And Aviva says Miss B didnt give it the opportunity to reattend her 
property to assess the private work that had been carried out. 
Miss B says the reason for this is because Aviva failed to offer her a prompt appointment in 
an emergency situation. But if Miss B thought this, she couldve had a conversation with 
Aviva before appointing a private engineer to see if anything else could be agreed. Instead 
she went ahead with the private repair without giving Aviva the chance to comment or 
reattend. This was her choice but isnt something I can fairly hold Aviva responsible for in 
this case.
In the absence of having the opportunity to reattend, Aviva told Miss B that it would consider 
a report or invoice from the work she had done privately as evidence in relation to her 
concerns. This seems fair to me, but from what Ive seen, Miss B hasnt provided this. So 
Aviva maintained its position not to refund her excess. On balance, I dont think is 
unreasonable as Im persuaded Miss B hasnt provided enough supporting evidence to show 
its engineer didnt carry out an effective repair. Should Miss B provide Aviva with this 
evidence, Id expect it to consider it.
But based on what Ive seen in this case, Im satisfied Aviva met its obligations under the 
policy by repairing the tap and not replacing it. And Im not persuaded it failed to carry out an 
effective repair. So I wont be directing Aviva to do anything differently in relation to Miss Bs 
claim.
Ive considered all of Miss Bs comments, including the point that she had to chase Aviva for 
weeks when it failed to respond to her complaint. But I can see from Avivas system notes, 
that it tried to contact her several times in the days after her complaint was raised to discuss 
her concerns. However, it was unable to get an answer, so it issued a final response letter 
around a week after the complaint was made. So Im satisfied Aviva communicated with 
Miss B in a fair and timely manner in this case. 
It follows, for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman