DRN-3794720
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that BISL Limited gave him incorrect information when it arranged a 
running account credit agreement to pay the annual premium on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr M took out a car insurance policy through BISL  a broker. He applied for 
the policy on the telephone and he asked to pay the annual premium in monthly instalments. 
To do so, BISL said hed have to take out a finance agreement. Mr M said he was looking to 
minimise the number of credit searches carried out and he asked whether the finance 
provider would carry out a hard or soft search. The call handler said it would be a soft 
search. 
The following day Mr M called BISL back to complain that a hard search had been carried 
out. He said the interest rate he was paying on a car finance agreement had increased from 
8.9% to 9.9% as a result of this. BISL apologised for the incorrect information it gave and 
offered him £50 in compensation. But it said it was unable to remove the search.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought BISLs compensation offer was 
fair. She agreed that BISL had given incorrect information as she thought it should have 
been aware that the lender would do a hard search. But she said she couldnt require BISL 
to remove the search. She also didnt think it was likely the hard search would have had a 
material impact on the lenders decision upon what interest rate to apply. So she thought £50 
was fair compensation.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said lenders could choose whether to do a hard 
or soft search and he didnt think it was necessary to do a hard search. He maintains that the 
search should be removed and he should be compensated for the increased interest rate.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think BISLs compensation offer is fair and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that Im only considering the actions of BISL in this case. BISL acted as 
an insurance and credit broker in this case. Its role was to arrange a car insurance policy for 
Mr M and then a separate finance agreement to enable to Mr M to pay the annual premium 
in monthly instalments. As a credit broker, it needed to give Mr M enough information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the finance agreement or 
not.
Mr M specifically asked BISL whether a hard or soft search would be carried out and the call 
hander incorrectly advised that it would only be a soft search. However, BISL should have 
known that the lender would carry out a hard search. A soft search is only carried out to 
assess whether someone is eligible for credit, but this isnt sufficient to assess the credit 
worthiness of an applicant  only a hard search will do that. Mr M was taking out a new 
finance agreement, so BISL should have been aware that regulatory requirements would 
have required the lender to carry out proportionate checks, which is likely to require a hard 
search of Mr Ms credit file. 
Mr M wants BISL to remove the search from his record, but the search was carried out by 
the lender and only the lender can remove this entry. So, it wasnt unreasonable for BISL to 
say it cant remove the entry. I note Mr M doesnt feel a hard search should have been 
carried out, but hell need to raise this with the lender as BISL didnt carry out the search.
In this decision, I need to consider whether Mr M has lost out as a result of the incorrect 
information BISL gave. I dont think he has. Mr M says that his interest rate increased as a 
result of the search, but I think thats unlikely. While a hard search can have an impact on a 
credit score, it will generally result in a very minor (if any) change on the score. I dont think 
its likely a hard search will result in a change in the interest rate and I think its most likely 
that there were other factors involved. So I cant reasonably require BISL to compensate 
Mr M for the change in interest rate. I recognise Mr M has suffered some distress and 
inconvenience from whats happened. But I think the £50 BISL has already offered is fair 
compensation for whats happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think BISL Limiteds 
compensation offer of £50 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused. It should pay this to Mr M directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no further 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman