DRN-2426021
The complaint
Ms T complains that she was mis-sold a level term assurance policy with critical illness cover
(CIC) by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
In short, she says she was led to believe the policy was a condition of her mortgage.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 17 December 2020, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. I said:
Im minded to uphold this complaint. However, I think the redress should also include a 
comparison with a decreasing life policy with CIC, if its cheaper than a standalone 
decreasing CIC policy.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, Im not
persuaded that the recommendation was suitable. Im mindful that a complaint about PPI 
relating to a previous policy  has been dealt with separately.
Firstly, level term cover isnt generally considered suitable for a repayment mortgage and its
usually more expensive. Ive seen nothing to depart from this general position. In other
words, Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was a particular reason for recommending a
level term assurance policy or that Ms T specifically wanted it, rather than a decreasing term
policy which is likely to go down (in line) with her mortgage and is more often than not
cheaper.
Im aware that cost was an issue for Ms T and is the reason why she decided not to take out
additional benefits. So, its likely she didnt want to pay more than she had to for cover.
Secondly, Im not persuaded that Ms T needed life cover given her circumstances. I note she
was single with no dependents and despite what the business says, leaving a mortgage free
property to her estate doesnt appear to have been a priority for her.
However, Im aware that a separate amount is charged for each element of the cover and
that these amounts are combined to produce a single monthly payment, therefore its
possible that although Ms T didnt need life cover, the cost of it was little or no more than if
shed taken out a standalone CIC policy. So, she wouldve had additional life cover for little
or no cost, but this isnt what the business has said. In any case, Im mindful that regardless
of the cost life cover, she didnt need it or want it, and that she had death in service benefit in
any case.
I appreciate Ms Ts others points, but on a balance of probabilities Im unable to safely say
that she was either told, or led to believe, that cover was a condition of her mortgage and
that the borrowing wouldnt be approved without it.
I appreciate Ms T had employee benefits, but these are dependent on her remaining with the
employer. I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight, 27 years on, shes still with the
same company, but at the point of sale I dont think there were any guarantees that shed
still be working for the same company with the same benefits.
Im also mindful that in this case her sick pay was only valid for six months unlike the CIC
which, in the event of a valid claim, was designed to pay out a lump sum, regardless of
whether (or not) she was still with the same employer.
The above notwithstanding, Im mindful that Ms T says if advised properly, she probably
wouldve gone for the standalone CIC cover. But, if a standalone decreasing term CIC policy
wouldve cost more than a combined life and CIC policy on a decreasing basis, I think its
more likely (than not) she wouldve taken the combined policy, simply because it wouldve
cost less regardless of her not needing life cover.
So, to put things right the business should refund the difference in cost between the level
term assurance policy with CIC that Ms T was recommended  packaged together under a
total mortgage protection plan  with the cost of a competitively priced standalone
decreasing critical illness policy.
But I also think the above redress should involve the business getting the costs for a
standalone decreasing term CIC, and one that also included life cover, and the comparison
should be with whichever is the cheaper.
It should add 8% simple interest to any loss, from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
The business responded and accepted my decision. In short, it said:
I can advise that we accept without prejudice the decision in respect of TMP411214137 and 
TMP6100334438 to reward the customer the difference between standalone DTA Critical 
Illness cover only policy against the actual LTA Life and Critical Illness cover policies. 
I have today requested the DTA premiums in order to establish if the 
customers have suffered any financial loss in relation to the Life and Critical Illness cover. 
Please note that there have been some instances where the DTA premiums have been 
calculated as being more expensive.
Once in receipt of the DTA figures I will be in contact with you again to advise whether any 
financial loss has occurred. 
As per the FOS decision interest will be added to the sum at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of each premium was paid to the date of settlement. Furthermore part 
of the payment will include compensatory interest, we are therefore obliged to deduct tax at 
the basic rate from this part of the offer as per HMRC rules. 
I can also inform that we have nothing further to add in respect of the Ombudsmans 
Provisional decision..
Ms T also responded but had no material points to add. She mentioned that shed been 
written to by the business about an account closure, but she didnt understand, as it was 
suggested that her complaint was out of time.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
I uphold this complaint. However, as I pointed out in my provisional decision, I think the 
redress should also include a comparison with a decreasing life policy with CIC, if its 
cheaper than a standalone decreasing CIC policy.
I dont consider that any new points have been raised, and the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me in my provisional decision. In other words, Im satisfied 
that Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision. 
Despite Ms Ts concerns I can assure her that the current complaint isnt out of time and is 
still being deal with by our service.  
Im mindful of the tax-deduction point made by the business. So, if the business considers it 
is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest, it must make the appropriate 
payment to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and send a tax deduction 
certificate to Ms T with the compensation payment. Ms T can then reclaim any overpaid tax 
from HMRC, if she is eligible to do so.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should refund the difference in cost between the level 
term assurance policy with CIC that Ms T was recommended  packaged together under a 
total mortgage protection plan  with the cost of a competitively priced standalone 
decreasing critical illness policy. Unless the cost of a decreasing life cover with CIC wouldve 
been cheaper, in which case it should compare the recommended policy with the latter.
It should also add 8% simple interest to any loss, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax 
from the interest, it must make the appropriate payment to HMRC and send a tax deduction 
certificate to Ms T with the compensation payment. Ms T can then reclaim any overpaid tax 
from HMRC, if she is eligible to do so. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman