DRN-3168388
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund them for two payments 
they made after raising a fraud claim.
What happened
Around September 2019, Mr R and Mrs R were approached by a family friend (who Ill refer 
to as A) who wanted to borrow money from them to buy land. 
A was the son of a family friend and Mr and Mrs R say theyd known him for years. But they 
werent comfortable just loaning the funds to him. After a discussion they agreed to lend 
£30,000 on the basis that A sold his car to them. They believed the value of the car was 
around £60,000 and asked A for proof of ownership. They say A provided them with bank 
statements which showed £75,000 had been repaid against the car. They expected the 
funds to be repaid within a few months and agreed theyd give A the right to buy the car back 
for the £30,000 at the point he repaid them. They say A was really confident that he could 
repay them, as he expected the land deal to go through.
On the 2 October 2019 Mr and Mrs R transferred £25,000 to A, followed by another £5,000 
the next day.
In January 2020, Mrs and Mrs R hadnt received any of their funds back from A and he said 
there had been delays with the land purchase. As Mr and Mrs R needed the money back, 
they approached a family friend to find out the value of the car with the intention of selling it. 
They were told that the car was worth around £60,000, but that A didnt own the car as there 
was a charge against it under a hire purchase agreement. 
Mr and Mrs R went to court to attempt to recoup their funds from A. As a result of court 
action, a Tomlin order was issued in November 2020. Mr and Mrs R were directed to return 
the car to the finance provider who had the charge over it. A was directed to pay                 
Mr and Mrs R £2,000 as a vehicle release fee, as well as a further £43,000  which was due 
to be paid by the end of September 2021.
In November 2020 following the court case, Mr and Mrs R contacted TSB and raised a fraud 
claim saying that A had defrauded them and asking TSB to refund them the £30,000.
TSB investigated Mr and Mrs Rs complaint under their Fraud Refund Guarantee but 
declined to refund them. TSB felt it was a civil dispute rather than a scam as Mr and Mrs R 
had received the goods they expected (the car) in return for the loan. And on that basis, felt 
that Mr and Mrs R werent entitled to a refund under their Fraud Refund Guarantee. 
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with TSBs response, so they brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. They didnt feel that 
A had set out intending to defraud them and agreed that this was a civil dispute rather than 
Mr and Mrs R being the victims of a scam. Because of that the investigator felt TSB hadnt 
acted unfairly in declining to refund them.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators opinion saying they believed that A had 
intentionally deceived them. They highlighted that A had told them that he had repaid the car 
finance when he hadnt, which was fraudulent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.  Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I can fairly require TSB to refund Mr and Mrs R and 
Ill explain why. 
Were Mr and Mrs R victims of a scam?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When TSB made the 
payments, it was complying with Mr and Mrs Rs instructions. At the time, Mr and Mrs R 
wanted to pay A and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct 
account details. 
A was the son of a family friend as well as being friends with their son, and someone theyd 
known for a number of years. When Mr and Mrs R initially werent prepared to give A the 
funds without security, they came to an agreement whereby he gave them his car as 
collateral. Although Mr and Mrs R also told us that before offering the car, A had offered 
some designer watches as security  which they werent interested in accepting as security 
for the loan. From what Mr and Mrs R have told us, they were satisfied at the time they made 
the payments that A was genuinely purchasing land and had every intention of repaying 
them.
If this was a scam from the outset, I wouldnt have expected A to actually be buying land. In 
October 2021, Mr and Mrs R told us that A had been in touch to tell them he was now in a 
position to sell the land and pay them back  although this didnt happen. And in November 
2021, in response to the investigators view, Mr and Mrs R told us that A had, hoped to get 
away with it by selling the land to re-purchase the car. So, based on what Mr and Mrs R 
have told us, I think its more likely than not there was a legitimate transaction at the initial 
point that the funds were transferred to A.
And, while I accept there was a charge on the car and funds owing, Im not satisfied that As 
dishonesty about the debt owing on the car, is enough to persuade me that this was a scam 
or fraud. I think its more likely than not, that while A hasnt repaid them, that A didnt set out 
with the intention to defraud Mr and Mrs R. I think he was buying land and that for whatever 
reason ended up in a position whereby he wasnt able to or chose not to repay Mr and Mrs 
R.There is no obligation on TSB to protect Mrs and Mr R from deals or arrangements they 
make that fall through, which is what I think is most likely to have happened in this case. 
TSB does have an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers from, 
potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and identifying 
suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations that potential 
fraud is identified I would expect TSB to intervene and attempt to prevent losses for the 
customer. But that intervention is based on there being evidence of a fraud or scam, which 
Im not satisfied there is in this case. Therefore, I cant fairly hold TSB liable or ask them to 
refund Mr and Mrs R in this case, as it appears their loss arises from a bad deal or 
arrangement that fell through.
Im not persuaded that TSB acted unreasonably by processing the payments and cant fairly 
ask them to refund Mr and Mrs R. 
Should TSB have refunded Mr and Mrs R under their Fraud Refund Guarantee?
TSB say Mr and Mrs R arent entitled to a refund under their Fraud Refund Guarantee as 
they received the goods they paid for  being the car. 
The guarantee says it covers TSB customers against fraud and it means if youre clearly an 
innocent victim of fraud .. we will refund you. It also sets out the conditions and when it 
doesnt apply saying the guarantee doesnt cover non-fraudulent purchase disputes. This is 
where you pay for something with your TSB account, from a genuine merchant and the good 
or service you received doesnt meet your expectations. 
For the reasons already given, Im not persuaded that this was a scam or fraud. So, Im not 
persuaded that TSB have acted unfairly in declining to refund Mr and Mrs R under their 
Fraud Guarantee Refund.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R have lost a substantial amount of money, but in these 
circumstances, I cant fairly ask TSB to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman