DRN-2374900
Complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs D took out the PPI in April 2009.
Mr and Mrs D paid a monthly amount of £42.12 for the policy. This covered Mrs D only and 
would have paid out £543 per month if Mrs D was too ill to work or made involuntarily 
redundant. This would have been paid for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to let Mr and Mrs D know the policy was optional and it had to get their 
consent before it set up the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs D say they applied for a mortgage through a financial adviser at home and that 
PPI was never discussed. Santander has provided information that shows Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage was taken in 2005  around four years before the PPI was sold. It has also 
provided screenshots, which confirm the PPI was sold during a telephone interview Mrs D 
had directly with Santander.
I havent been able to listen to a recording of the call as its no longer available, but I have 
seen a copy of a script Santander says its representative would have used when it sold 
Mrs D the PPI. Looking at the script, the representative was prompted to inform Mrs D that 
the policy was optional and after explaining what the policy covered, they were prompted to 
say, Are you happy to proceed?. While I cant know if the script was followed word for 
word, I think its more likely than not that the conversation would have been along similar 
lines as to what was set out in the script. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have made any changes to their mortgage around 
the time the policy was sold. So, considering Mr and Mrs D had already held their mortgage 
for around four years  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have thought PPI was 
required when it was eventually taken. 
Santander has provided screenshots that show documents relating to the PPI were sent to 
Mr and Mrs D when it was sold. So, if Mr and Mrs D didnt recognise what the documents 
theyd received were for, I would have expected them to have raised this with Santander 
much sooner. For these reasons, I think Mr and Mrs D were aware they had a choice about 
taking the PPI and that they chose to take it at the time  although its understandable that 
they may not recall this so many years after the sale.  
Both parties agree that Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs D any advice. That means it didnt 
have to check the policy was suitable for them. But Santander did need to give Mr and Mrs D 
enough information about the PPI, so they could decide whether to take it or not. 
The script Ive seen, prompts the representative to explain things like the policy benefits, its 
cost and some of the important exclusions. But without listening to the call, its possible the 
information Santander gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. So, 
in case it wasnt, Ive thought about how this might have affected Mrs Ds decision to take 
the policy. Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs D have said about their circumstances at 
the time, but Ive mainly focused on Mrs Ds circumstances, as she was the one covered by 
the PPI.
Having done so, I dont think better information about the PPI would have made a difference 
to Mrs Ds decision to take the policy. I say this because Mrs D was eligible for the policy 
and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that might have made it 
harder for her to claim on the policy, such as, having a pre-existing medical condition or 
unusual employment circumstances. And, in my experience, the premium wasnt excessive 
in comparison to similar policies available elsewhere.
The mortgage was secured against Mr and Mrs Ds home and the consequences of them 
not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. The policy would have paid 
out in addition to the employee benefits Mrs D says she had and potentially for longer. And 
Mrs D could have claimed again, subject to a requalification period. 
Mr and Mrs D also say they had some shares they could have used, but I think its likely they 
would have wanted to avoid a situation where theyd need to surrender their shares  which 
presumably they had for investment purposes. So, overall, I think the policy could have been 
useful if Mrs D was too unwell to work or lost her job. 
Mrs D says she was made redundant after the policy was in place and says she would have 
made a claim on the policy if shed have known about it. But having thought about what 
shes said, I dont think this, in isolation, shows the PPI was mis-sold. As explained, I think 
its more likely than not that the PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage following a 
conversation and it would have gained their consent. If Mrs D is concerned about missing 
her opportunity to claim on the policy, she may want to discuss that with the insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman