DRN-3097852
The complaint
Mr M and Ms D complain that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited didnt tell them the mortgage 
they wanted was unavailable until after theyd paid a deposit to reserve a property. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms D asked MAB for mortgage advice in mid-2020. Mr M says even though he 
told MAB they didnt want shared equity it didnt tell them they didnt have other options until 
after theyd paid £500 to reserve a new build property.
Our investigator said, after listening to the call recordings, that Mr M didnt tell MAB he didnt 
want shared equity before they paid the deposit. He said it was fair for MAB to suggest 
shared equity as this was Mr M and Ms Ds only option. 
Mr M said if theyd been told the 5% deposit wasnt sufficient, they wouldnt have reserved 
the property. He says he has witnesses to his calls. Mr M said they reserved a property at 
£192,000 knowing they could afford the deposit with his help to buy ISA and the 25% 
government top-up. Mr M said they just wanted a straightforward 95% mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
MAB was unable to source a mortgage for Mr M and Ms D for the property they wanted to 
buy. Mr M says that MAB should have told them this at the outset. They wouldnt then have 
paid a deposit to reserve a property they wont now buy.
Mr M and Ms D paid the deposit on 7 August 2020. So first I need to look at what information 
MAB gave them before this.
Ive listened to the first call between MAB and Mr M and Ms D in late July 2020 and note 
that:
Mr M told MAB they were looking at properties of about £200,000 and up to £220,000.
Mr M said he had £10,000 in a help to buy ISA and some savings. He said help for first 
time buyers was appealing and asked about the government deposit loan scheme.
The adviser said they could help with the government help to buy or first home fund 
schemes. The adviser asked if Mr M and Ms Ds intention was to put down £15,000 with 
the remainder from the first home fund, and Mr M confirmed this.
The adviser said the help to buy scheme only applied for properties of up to £200,000, 
and the first home fund applied for properties over £200,000. 
The adviser explained how the first home fund worked, including that it was a shared 
equity scheme. He said Mr M and Ms D had to provide a minimum deposit of 5% and the 
government would loan up to 25%. This would bring the loan-to-value to 81% which 
would allow Mr M and Ms D to access better rates. The adviser also said that the 
government would get its money back when the property was sold, as a proportion of the 
sales price.   
Mr M and Ms D didnt tell the adviser they didnt want a shared equity mortgage. 
Ive also listened to the call on 7 August 2020. The adviser confirmed the maximum amount 
Mr M and Ms D could borrow (£198,000). He said hed arrange for a decision in principle to 
be issued. There was no discussion about the type of mortgage. The adviser asked if Mr M 
and Ms D had decided on a property, and to let him know when they had. 
Mr M says he has witnesses to the calls. I have recordings of these calls. I dont think the 
witnesses recollections would provide better evidence of what was said than the recordings.
MABs adviser gave Mr M and Ms D clear information about the first homes fund and that it 
was a shared equity scheme. Despite a lengthy discussion about this Mr M didnt say this 
wasnt what they wanted or that they were only looking for a 95% mortgage without shared 
equity.
The property Mr M and Ms D paid a reservation deposit for in August was priced at less than 
£200,000. I dont see how MABs adviser could have known this during the call in July. When 
the adviser spoke to Mr M on 7 August he asked if theyd decided on a property yet. At this 
point the adviser didnt know that the property Mr M was about to reserve was priced at 
£192,000 (which meant the first homes fund wasnt available).
I think it was reasonable for the adviser to proceed on the basis of the information he was 
given. Mr M said he was looking at properties of about £200,000 to 220,000. Mr M said the 
government schemes were appealing. And Mr M confirmed hed proceed on the basis of his 
own deposit and the first home fund deposit.  
As it turned out, Mr M couldnt have used the first home fund for his purchase as the 
property price was less than £200,000  but as Ive said the adviser didnt know this. If hed 
wanted help from the government with his purchase hed have had to apply for help to buy, 
which is also a shared equity scheme. 
Mr M said MABs story began to unravel during the calls on 20 August. This is of course after 
hed paid the reservation deposit, and MAB was told the price of the property. Ive also 
listened to these calls.
There was a discussion about how Mr M and Ms D would fund their deposit. The adviser 
said that without government help theyd need to find a deposit of nearly £29,000 as lenders 
were requiring a 15% deposit at that time for new build properties. The adviser explained 
how the help to buy scheme worked, including that its a shared equity scheme. Mr M asked 
some questions about this. The main issue discussed on these calls though was that, based 
on their incomes, the amount Mr M and Ms D wanted to borrow wasnt affordable. MAB says 
their proof of income was short of the income theyd stated prior to the decision in principle.
Im sorry that Mr M and Ms D werent able to buy the property they wanted, and that they 
paid a reservation deposit which isnt refundable. I dont think though that MAB made errors here or treated them unfairly. I think it gave them clear information and acted on the basis of 
the information they provided. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman