DRN-3556529
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) declined his 
transaction, and did so without adequate explanation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. first direct has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr I disagreed. Other than the 
reason for the declined transaction, the facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied first direct confirmed the wrong expiry date was 
entered when the £59 transaction was attempted on 19 January 2022. 
I dont doubt Mr I double checked the information entered by the vender before the 
transaction was attempted, but this wouldnt completely prevent mistakes being 
made when communicating information between two people over the phone.
The evidence provided by first direct shows the only reason possible for the decline 
was incorrect entry, and Im not convinced that any of the evidence provided by 
either party persuades me another reason is more likely.
Evidence recently provided by Mr I of other declined transactions doesnt persuade 
me that this transaction failed due to an error made by first direct, in part because 
they are separate instances. 
As Im not persuaded that first direct were responsible for any error in the transaction 
being declined, I dont think it would be reasonable to consider it responsible for any 
embarrassment Mr I feels he suffered as a result.
I conclude that first direct do not have to do any more to resolve the complaint.
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mr Is complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman
