DRN-2957213
The complaint
Mr M complained about delays caused by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HL) in transferring his investments to a new provider. 
What happened
Mr M held a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and a stocks and shares individual 
savings account (ISA) with Hargreaves Lansdown. On 22 January 2020 HL told Mr M that 
it was closing his accounts. In summary, it gave Mr M 30 days notice of it closing his 
accounts and said needed to make arrangements to transfer the ISA and SIPP to a new 
provider. HL also said he wouldnt be able to trade online or make payments into the 
accounts during the closure period. It couldnt give Mr M a firm date in respect of how long 
the transfer would take  it said things like it would typically take no longer than 30 days, and 
it would be as soon as possible.
That evening Mr M set up an account with a new provider.
On 23 January Mr M told HL that he wanted to transfer the ISA and SIPP to a new provider. 
He wanted the cash holding in the ISA transferred to his bank account and the stocks to the 
new provider. HL said this might take a couple of working days/maybe early next week, and 
the money would be in Mr Ms bank account as soon as possible.
On 28 January HL told Mr M that he would receive the cash from the ISA as soon as 
possible, and that the SIPP transfer depended on various factors but it could take four to six 
weeks. Mr M asked if the withdrawal could be processed as a same day payment and HL 
said the money should be in Mr Ms bank account by end of the week. It also said Mr M 
wouldn't be able to do any trades.
On 3 February HL wrote to Mr M confirming that as hed chosen to transfer as stock (known 
as in specie), before it could start the transfer it needed confirmation from his new provider 
that they could hold the investments. It also said that stock transfers could take up to six 
weeks or longer, and it confirmed that Mr M wouldnt be able to sell any holdings online 
although he might be able to do so via the phone.
HL received the transfer request for the ISA from Mr Ms new provider on 5 February. The 
request was for a full transfer of the account. Mr M sold some holdings in the ISA the 
following day.
On 12 February HL told Mr M that the withdrawal had been set up the previous day so it 
should be with him by the end of that day. It also said the transfer request for the ISA was 
waiting to be processed, and when it was processed HL would arrange dates to send stocks 
to the new provider. It said the transfer would be completed in two to six weeks but would be 
turned around as quickly as possible and by mid-March at the latest.
HL gave Mr M an update on the transfers on 20 February. For the ISA, it confirmed the 
transfer request was still waiting to be processed. It couldnt give a timeframe but said it was 
currently working on forms received at the end of January so it shouldn't be too long. HL told 
Mr M he could sell holdings if he wished but it might delay the transfer. For the SIPP, it said 
the transfer application was received on 29 January and it was currently working on 
applications received on 21 January so it should be processed by the end of the following 
week.
HL gave Mr M a further update on the transfers on 26 February. For the ISA, it said it should 
be processed in the next week or so and it could take up to six weeks. It again confirmed 
that Mr M could trade while the transfer was being processed. For the SIPP, it said it had 
asked the transfer team to prioritise this and had asked for it to be completed by the end of 
the week.
HL processed the transfer request for the ISA and sent a new valuation to the new provider 
on 4 March. It also received the completed transfer documents for the SIPP from Mr Ms new 
provider. The new provider asked for a valuation of the current assets so it could confirm it 
could accept them.
HL gave Mr M another update on the transfers on 5 March. For the ISA, it said the new 
provider needed to submit a new transfer request due to the stock trade since the previous 
one had been submitted. For the SIPP, it confirmed all the documentation was fine and the 
next step was for Mr M to complete a discharge form. It said it would probably take two 
weeks or so once the form had been received back but it couldnt guarantee this. For the ISA 
and SIPP, it told Mr M if he sold any stocks while the transfers were going through the last 
steps it would probably delay the transfers because new transfer requests would need to be 
submitted.
On 6 March Mr M asked HL if he could buy and sell stock in the SIPP as it's taken so long 
for the transfer to process. HL said a valuation would be sent to the new provider in one to 
two weeks so it suggested if he wanted to trade he should do so before then.
HL received a Mr Ms signed discharge form for the SIPP transfer on 9 March. Two days 
later the new provider contacted HL and suggested that the trade date for the stock transfer 
in the ISA be 16 March and the settlement date be 18 March. HL also sent the valuation for 
the SIPP to Mr Ms new provider.
On 18 March HL wrote to Mr M confirming the ISA transfer had been completed.
Between 20 March and 20 April Mr M made various trades in the SIPP. On 25 March the 
new provider confirmed to HL that it was able to accept Mr M's assets in the SIPP. And on 
20 April HL sent a new valuation for the SIPP to the new provider (due to trades made 
between). HL confirmed the SIPP transfer was complete on 6 May.
Mr M complained to HL about the delays that occurred. In summary, he said hed initially 
been told that the transfer process would take two to three weeks and he was then given 
other timescales that werent met. He said this has led to him suffering losses as hed been 
unable to trade.
HL acknowledged that some delays in respect of the ISA transfer fell below its service levels, 
but it said the majority of the delay was due to Mr M continuing to trade  as this meant it 
had to provide updated valuations to the new provider. It nevertheless recognised the 
inconvenience Mr M had suffered and offered him £150 compensation.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. In 
summary, she felt the account terms and conditions allowed HL to cancel the accounts by 
giving 30-days notice. She didnt agree that Mr M had been unable to trade as HL had 
confirmed he could do so, and he in fact did so. Overall, she felt the delays were due to HL having to send new valuations to the new provider and wait for their acceptance each time 
there was a trade. She also felt HLs compensation offer was fair.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He made various points, including:
he was prepared to liquidate the holdings in his ISA, but he spoke to HL and having been 
assured the transfer would be prioritised and would take around two weeks he decided 
to look for a new provider and do the transfer
the compensation wasnt enough given that HL put his transfer into a queue (at a time 
when they were inundated with transfer requests)
the stock he traded in the ISA account was previously suspended so it had no bearing on 
the transfer; he didnt sell other holdings in February as he was under the impression his 
transfer would be progressed swiftly
he questioned what HL did during February in respect of the transfers
he was told in late February that the SIPP transfer would be completed in days; then a 
week later he was told he had to complete a discharge form (which he felt could have 
been sent to him at the outset).
Our investigator got more information from HL and re-reviewed the complaint; however her 
conclusion was the same. She said:
there was nothing confirming that Mr M had been told initially that the transfers would 
take a few weeks or that they would be prioritised
HLs notes following a phone conversation on 26 February 2020 said the acceptance 
hadnt yet been processed and would probably be processed in one to two weeks
a full transfer was requested, which included suspended stock  so the valuation sent to 
the new provider included this stock
it was reasonable for HL to not send the discharge form until it received the completed 
transfer documents from the new provider; these were received on 4 March 2020 and 
the discharge form was sent the following day.
Mr M still disagreed with our investigators conclusion. He said HL clearly told him the 
transfers would be prioritised and would take two weeks. He also maintained that when he 
chased HL in February he was told it would be done by the end of the week.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has confirmed to us that his two main concerns were in respect of HL having a policy 
of closing accounts without providing a specific reason, and in the length of time it took for 
both the ISA and SIPP to be transferred. I will comment on these separately below.
Account closure 
The terms and conditions of the accounts said HL could terminate the agreements for any 
reason giving a 30-day notice. In my opinion, this isnt in itself unfair or unreasonable. In this 
case HL has adhered to the terms of the account, so Im satisfied that it treated Mr M fairly. I 
think its helpful for a reason to be given, so the consumer can at least understand why HL 
has taken such action. But HL wasnt required by the terms and conditions to give a reason 
so whilst I think that was unhelpful I dont think it was inherently unfair.
Mr Ms decision to transferMr M said he was given misinformation by HL in respect of how long the transfers would 
take, and his decision to transfer was based on that misinformation. As outlined above, Mr M 
said he chose to transfer as he was assured it would be prioritised and would take around 
two weeks.
Mr M wasnt aware of HLs decision to close his accounts until 22 January 2020. And he told 
HL of his decision to transfer the following day. Ive listened to a recording of the telephone 
conversation on 22 January. Mr M asked at various times how long the transfer would take 
and HL never gave him a firm timeframe  as Ive said above, it made non-committal 
statements such as it typically taking no longer than 30 days, it shouldn't be weeks and 
weeks and it would be done as soon as possible. HL also never said anything about the 
transfers being prioritised.
So while I acknowledge that Mr M decided to transfer his ISA and SIPP, Im not persuaded 
by his argument that this decision was based on HL telling him the transfers would be 
completed within two to three weeks or them being prioritised. In my opinion, HL never gave 
him such assurances.
The ISA transfer
In my view, the main delay was from 5 February to 4 March ie from when HL received the 
transfer request to when it processed it and sent a new valuation to the new provider. Once 
the request was processed, the transfer completed two weeks later. HL has told me the 
delay in processing the request was due to the volume of work it had at the time.
I dont think I need to address this issue further as HL has already accepted that the delay 
was unreasonable. The only issue I need to decide is what HL now needs to do to put 
matters right  which Ive commented on below.
The SIPP transfer
It seems from the call on 20 February that HL received the transfer application on 29 
January. HL has told me that it couldnt take any action until 4 March as that was when it 
received Mr Ms new providers transfer instruction and the completed transfer documents. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter from Mr Ms new provider dated 3 March which enclosed the 
completed transfer documentation which supports of this.
Mr M raised a point about HL not sending the discharge form for him to sign until March, but 
I dont think it was particularly unreasonable for it to wait until receiving the formal transfer 
request before doing this.
Mr M started to trade a week or so after HL received the discharge form back. Obviously that 
was his prerogative; but I think he did so knowing that trading would potentially delay the 
transfer. I say this because HL had told him on various occasions that trading could delay 
things. After Mr Ms final trade HL sent the new provider an updated valuation. The transfer 
was completed roughly two weeks later.
There does appear to be a delay of at least three weeks in HL processing the initial transfer 
request. But given Mr Ms trades, I think any delays after HL received the transfer instruction 
and documents were kept to a minimum.
Mr M has referred to being told on 20 February and 26 February that the transfer would be 
done around the beginning of March. Ive listened to the two calls and Im not persuaded that 
HL gave Mr M any firm timescales on when the transfer would be completed. In the first call the information provided was in respect of transfer being processed; and on the second call 
HL simply said it asked for the transfer to be prioritised and for it to be completed by the end 
of the week.
Fair compensation
The only delays Ive concluded HL was responsible for occurred up to the transfer requests 
being processed. I think Mr M would have suffered a degree of unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience due to this eg having to chase HL. But HL has offered Mr M £150 
compensation for this; and Im satisfied thats fair in this instance.
Im not persuaded there are grounds to ask HL to pay Mr M compensation for any financial 
losses he might have suffered due to these delays. I say this because he was able to 
continue trading while the transfers were being processed (albeit I recognise these would 
have caused a delay).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to pay 
Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Hargreaves Lansdown must pay Mr M interest on the compensation at a rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if the compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days of the date it receives notification of his acceptance of this decision. This 
is to compensate Mr M for any undue delay in the compensation being paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman