DRN-4333661
The complaint
Mr P complains that AISA Financial Planning Limited (AISA) failed to select the product and 
investment solution to meet his retirement needs. He says this meant he paid higher charges 
than he needed to and, ultimately, he saw a decline in the value of his plan due to the 
unsuitability of those investments. He would like to be compensated for his financial loss.
What happened
In 2020, just over a year before his 60th birthday, Mr P spoke with AISA regarding his 
retirement planning following a personal recommendation from a friend. He held a number of 
pensions  principally final salary schemes - but also held two stakeholder pension plans 
with another provider. In October 2020 he agreed to transfer those plans, valued at 
£229,985.36, to a new provider using AISA. Mr P says the idea was that AISA would invest 
his funds into an appropriate portfolio which it also managed. It was hoped this would 
provide some investment growth but without unnecessary risk, so that Mr P could withdraw 
funds of around £40,000 each year to live off until his final salary pensions became payable 
from age 65. 
AISA says it didnt make a recommendation in line with this objective. It says its objective 
was to invest Mr Ps fund for potentially greater investment returns. 
In May 2021 Mr P had a review meeting with AISA. He later summarised the main points 
back to AISA from that meeting. He said his understanding was that the current fund value 
showed growth of 6.99%, and that the risk level of the portfolio was 4, where 1 was the 
lowest risk and 10 was the highest risk, but that he wanted to increase to level 6 for some 
of the fund. He also confirmed that it would still be possible to obtain the £45,000 that he 
wanted to draw each year by burning through the capital within the plan but without 
touching his final salary pension schemes.  
In November 2021, during another conversation with AISAs adviser, Mr P expressed 
concern about the returns from his plan and thought they could be increased. But no 
changes were made to the composition of his plan. 
  
In February 2022 Mr P withdrew £40,000 from the investment to fund some healthcare he 
needed. 
Soon after Mr P became concerned about the performance of his plan and contacted his 
adviser to discuss what he should do. In June 2022 he decided to move the funds to cash. In 
agreement with Mr P, AISA also stopped taking its servicing payments at that time.
In July 2022 Mr P complained about AISAs management of his investments within the 
pension. He made the following points in support of his complaint.
The suitability report that AISA completed noted his objective to implement an 
investment strategy with an aim to achieve some growth without exposing the money 
to unnecessary risk". This led to his funds being invested into a cautious growth 
portfolio, but it had performed badly particularly when compared to other similar risk 
rated portfolios.
He thought the reason for this poor performance was AISAs failure to track the 
markets and make necessary changes to the investments. He thought AISA lacked 
the required forward thinking to take corrective actions in a timely manner. 
If he hadnt moved his money into cash in June 2022 it would have most likely lost 
another 5-7% in value by this point.
He calculated that hed lost £14,473.65  as well as the investment growth he would 
have received from an appropriately managed comparable portfolio  which he 
thought would have been around 5%. He wanted that full loss to be refunded to him.
 
AISA didnt uphold the complaint and made the following points in response. 
There was no dispute that Mr P was defined as a cautious (level 4) investor. Nor that 
the risk and the likelihood of investments falling and rising over time were also 
discussed during a zoom meeting. 
It was unable to agree that its adviser agreed with Mr Ps intention to burn down the 
pension funds over a period of five years. It also said there was no evidence that the 
adviser had guaranteed investment returns to Mr P.
However, it thought it feasible that, even using fixed interest instruments, Mr Ps 
objective of burning though the money could have been achieved. So it wasnt 
reasonable to complain that the objective hadnt been met only a year or so into the 
plan. 
It felt it had provided Mr P with a good level of overall service for which it had 
charged a discounted service fee. 
Mr P had failed to provide the information it requested in order to provide a full 
complaint response. It also thought that he had failed to engage and follow its further 
advice not to remain in cash  which would have rectified the previous negative 
position of his fund.
It didnt think there was any evidence to show it had failed to proactively manage 
Mr Ps investments, nor that it agreed to be compared to other third parties or that it 
provided any investment guarantees.  
A pension was the only product which would have allowed Mr P to take such large, 
tax efficient withdrawals. In addition, it believed Mr P had been advised to invest in 
funds which were appropriate for his aims and attitude to risk (ATR). 
It offered to provide Mr P with a further 12 months service at no cost. 
Mr P and AISA subsequently exchanged further communications  but as Mr P remained 
unhappy with the outcome he brought his complaint to us. He said AISA had:
Failed to select the right investment profile or product to meet his needs.
Failed to select a solution for his objective of drawing down his funds over a five year 
period.
Failed to provide him with any alternative product ensuring he incurred higher 
operating costs than other products which could have been chosen.
Failed to provide accurate and factual advice.
Failed to manage his investments which meant their value declined rapidly.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said we wouldnt usually uphold a complaint about the performance of 
investments apart from considering whether they were suitable for a consumer. In this case 
she thought the investments were in line with Mr Ps ATR. She said AISA hadnt guaranteed 
the portfolios performance or said it would outperform similar risk rated funds and portfolios 
from other providers.She was satisfied AISA had managed Mr Ps investments fairly and didnt think it was 
reasonable to compare past performance of other investments during short periods nor to 
expect a business to guarantee a certain growth rate.  
 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he had many more emails which supported his claim and he 
reiterated what he thought AISA had failed to do regarding his investments. He thought AISA 
had poorly managed his money and given him poor guidance. He said this had affected his 
future and family life and undoubtably contributed to his current poor health. He also 
reiterated the five areas that he thought AISA had failed in which he had communicated to it 
when he made his complaint.
He wanted his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman  so it was passed to me to 
review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Id reached a different conclusion to the investigator and 
that Mr Ps complaint ought to be upheld. I made the following points in support of my 
findings:
We wouldnt usually uphold a complaint on the basis of poor investment performance 
 but could consider this in the context of whether the recommendation was suitable. 
I thought that AISA had probably recommended an investment that was in line with 
Mr Ps ATR, so I went on to look at the composition of the investment. 
Based on the asset allocation of the fund in 2020 and 2021 I thought the composition 
of the fund wasnt consistent with what Id expect to see recommended to a cautious 
investor.
I then went on to consider the general suitability of the transfer in the first place. I 
noted that Mr P wanted to draw around £40,000 each year from his plan until his 65th 
birthday. And looking at AISAs correspondence with Mr P I thought it accepted his 
reason for transferring. So I thought it was important that any recommendation 
should aim to put Mr P in a better position by transferring and drawing his income 
than by remaining in his existing plans. I looked at the advice across a number of 
areas.
I wasnt persuaded that the diversification of funds that AISA offered through its 
portfolio was a good enough reason for Mr P to transfer considering his position at 
that time. I also noted that the charges on the new plan were higher and that it was 
unlikely they would have been recouped before Mr P began drawing his income. I 
didnt think Mr P had been made fully aware of the full effect of the charges and 
believed AISA ought to have provided him with a comparative illustration which would 
have given him an idea of which plan would have provided greater returns based on 
charges alone.
I thought Mr P could then have carried out his own research of the historic data AISA 
provided which would more likely than not have led him to choose the plan which 
appeared to be in his best interest financially. 
I thought Mr P was equally as likely to have kept in touch with his existing provider as 
he might have kept in touch with his new adviser  so I didnt think this was strong 
reason to transfer. 
Likewise Mr P could have continued to make regular contributions to his existing 
plans as well as any new plan. 
I wasnt persuaded that there were sufficient compelling reasons for Mr P to have 
transferred and I thought he could have achieved his objectives by remaining where 
he was. I said AISA should compare the value of his pension against a benchmark which reflected his ATR  as I couldnt be sure which funds he might have invested in 
had he remained within his existing plans and simply switched funds.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P accepted the provisional decision and reiterated that he believed hed been misguided 
by AISA in respect of the products it recommended to meet his objectives and retirement 
strategy. He made three further points which he thought needed to be addressed in my 
decision. 
He wanted to know who would carry out the redress calculation as he thought it 
should be conducted by an impartial third party. 
Had he been provided with a comparison of the costs between the two pension 
alternatives he believed he would have chosen to stay with his existing provider. He 
wanted that outcome to be considered within my decision.
He thought that, as he had no intention of remaining with AISA as a client, the offer of 
a free years management fee ought to be included within his overall compensation 
award.
While recently looking to switch his funds from cash to an alternative strategy hed 
discovered an NS&I bond which has no risk and offers a steady growth in line with 
what he had expected. He believed this further undermined the investment strategy 
he held following AISAs recommendation.
AISA didnt agree with the decision. It made the following points in support of the view that 
its advice was suitable.
It was clear that Mr P was dissatisfied with the performance of his existing funds and 
AISA had qualified that with reference to historical performance data. The potential 
for Mr P to remain within his existing funds was discussed and it also provided 
information on alternative funds that he could switch into within its report. 
It didnt believe that Mr Ps (valid) concerns could be addressed by remaining within 
his existing plan and switching funds, but in any case he had rejected that idea so he 
wouldnt have accepted such advice.
Mr P said he didnt want to take unnecessary risk, but it was never agreed that he 
wouldnt take any risk. In fact, Mr P had agreed to a risk definition and accepted that 
he had the capacity to lose 15% of his fund value before he would feel 
uncomfortable.
On transferring Mr P would benefit from further financial advice and could become 
more actively involved in his investments. 
My comment around Mr Ps actual retirement date was incorrect. AISAs suitability 
report stated that the date was less than two years time, but in any case the 
investment would continue for up to six years when the five year period over which 
Mr P wanted to make withdrawals was taken into account.
Although I had extended the scope of the complaint to include suitability, both AISA 
and Mr P agreed that a switch away from the existing plan was appropriate and met 
his objectives.
The regulator states that if a client requires ongoing advice then the recommended 
product should lend itself to that advice rather than being transactional  which would 
have been the case if Mr P remained with his previous provider. He would then have 
had to pay AISA ad-hoc fees for ongoing advice on his investments.  
I had incorrectly calculated AISAs charges by including the initial advice charge 
twice. I had also ignored the fact that AISAs 1% adviser charge would still need to be 
paid if it simply advised Mr P to switch funds within his existing plan. And Mr P would 
need to pay an additional charge every time he wanted additional advice regarding his existing plan  which would have been considerably more than the ongoing 
adviser charge he paid following the transfer.
It didnt accept my premise that Mr P would be unlikely to see the extra charges on 
his new plan recouped over the investment horizon. It thought that it was reasonable 
to transfer in the expectation that the relatively small increase in charges would be 
offset and greater performance potentially delivered.
However, had Mr P continued with AISAs advice and not disinvested his funds, his 
portfolio would have outperformed the previous plan by around 3.18%. 
It was aware that, if he had stayed with his previous provider, when Mr P retired he 
would have had to seek advice if he wished to use his funds in a more flexible way. 
In fact, with the addition of adviser fees at that point it was likely that the transfer 
would have ended up being less expensive overall. It said that this type of 
transactional charging was seen by the regulator as an unsuitable method for the 
provision of an ongoing service and undermined the suggestion that suitable advice 
would have been for Mr P to remain in the previous plans regardless of whether he 
switched funds internally. 
There was no regulatory requirement for AISA to provide a comparative illustration. It 
didnt accept that, faced with the relevant information, Mr P would have chosen the 
path which would have appeared to be financially in his best interests as it wasnt 
clear what that path would be  especially as it had now proven that it was likely that 
his new portfolio would have provided potentially greater overall returns. 
It didnt think the issue here was whether the transfer was unsuitable as it thought its 
clarification around fees had demonstrated that it was in Mr Ps best interest. 
It provided lots of evidence to demonstrate that the portfolio it recommended was in 
line with Mr Ps ATR and that my assumption of its composition not being appropriate 
for Mr Ps risk profile was incorrect. It also thought that Mr P had demonstrated he 
was prepared to take some risk and indeed had regularly looked at higher risk 
potential investments and raised queries around various potential investments, 
including Bitcoin.
It believed the only reason Mr P had brought his complaint was because of the 
losses he suffered due to global investment performance and then disinvesting 
against its advice. 
It disagreed with the benchmark I had used in my redress methodology because Id 
suggested that Mr P should have remained with his previous provider and may not 
have needed to switch at all. It therefore believed the benchmark to be used ought to 
be Mr Ps existing funds. 
It also believed I needed to consider Mr Ps own actions when disinvesting and 
should adhere to principle 4 of the regulators principles of good regulation. It 
thought I hadnt taken into account Mr Ps failure to adhere to AISAs further offer of 
advice and a risk review which would have allowed his investment objectives to still 
be achieved. 
Having considered these additional points I was persuaded to review the redress formula 
that Id originally set out. I proposed to revise my recommendation so that any losses would 
be capped up to the point AISA subsequently offered to review and reinvest Mr Ps funds  
which was July 2022. 
I then had to consider how to bring any loss up to date and, in this case, because I was 
unsure what funds Mr P would have invested into  even if hed stayed with his existing 
provider, I said the loss should be brought up to date using the benchmark that I applied in 
my provisional decision from July 2022 to the date of any final decision.
AISA continued to disagree with the reasons Id given for upholding the complaint. It said it 
would require a full explanation for my decision including a response to the points it raised following my provisional decision. With regards to my proposed changes to the redress 
methodology, it thought that any attempt to bring the losses up to date after July 2022 should
be on the basis of substantive reinvestment, which would support the use of the FTSE UK 
Private Investor Income Index at that point, as opposed to a 100% bond return.
Mr P explained that the reason he switched his investments to cash was because they 
appeared destined to continue (to spiral) at an ever decreasing pace.  He says he took the 
opportunity to monitor the funds hed been invested in when he switched to cash and can 
now confirm they continued to fall, in some cases at an even faster rate than previously. He 
also made the following points in response:
AISA had simply failed to respond effectively to changes in the markets over a 
number of trading quarters.
AISA only offered to review his circumstances and re-establish his ATR when he 
complained. That was supported by its offer to provide the next 12 months of 
servicing at no cost. He thought this offer was an admission of AISAs own failings.
He had lost faith and trust in AISA at this point in any case.
He provided a pension report and wanted to demonstrate that his original investment 
was £241,680.26 not the figure I had stated. He wanted to ensure this figure was 
used in any comparative loss calculation.
He hoped that AISA might review its practices and methods as a result of this 
decision as underlined by the experience and journey he had suffered. 
Ill replay my provisional decision in full below as it forms part of this final decision, Ill then 
set out my final decision responding to the subsequent points that have been raised.
AISAs investment advice and management of the funds
Two of Mr Ps complaint points were that AISA failed to select the right investment profile or 
product to meet his needs, and that it failed to manage his investments properly which led to 
the reduction in his plans value. So effectively this part of the complaint is about investment 
performance, and we wouldnt usually uphold a complaint on the basis of poor performance 
alone because the very nature of investments is that they can fall and rise in line with 
external market factors  for which I couldnt hold AISA responsible. Indeed in his email of 
6 August 2020 to AISA where he set out his pension objectives, Mr P conceded that his 
pensions were around £17,000 short of where they needed to be to have fully recovered 
following losses incurred during the global pandemic  so I think Mr P was also fully aware 
that investments could fall as well as rise.   
But I can consider whether the investments were suitable and in line with Mr Ps ATR  so 
Ive started by looking at that aspect of AISAs advice. Looking at the risk profile 
questionnaire that was completed by Mr P he was defined as a balanced investor, but a 
subsequent clarification was set out in the suitability report which said that after discussion it 
was agreed to change to risk grade 4  which was cautious. 
So I looked at AISAs investment recommendation which was into a cautious growth 
portfolio. This would seem to be in line with Mr Ps slightly amended ATR, however Ive 
looked further into the composition of the fund at the time of the recommendation.
 
On 11 May 2020 the asset allocation of the fund was around 13% in property, cash, and 
others. A further 41.88% was invested in equities, 16% in fixed interest and 29% in 
commodities and energy. But from what I can see 25% of commodities and energy was 
physical gold. With only a total of under 20% in cash and fixed interest, Im not persuaded 
that the composition of the fund was broadly in line with someone with a cautious attitude to growth. With nearly 42% in equities and nearly 30% in what appear to be other funds 
involving commodities  principally gold  and energy, I think this is more in line with an 
above moderate or balanced investor. 
And although I note the fixed interest element had risen to 32.52% by June 2020 and the 
energy/infrastructure part had reduced to 20.64%, Ive also taken into account that the 
pension report that was sent to Mr P on 9 August 2021 would suggest that the asset 
allocation at that time was 62.62% equities, 20.43% bonds, 3.52% cash and 13 either other 
or not classified. This wasnt dissimilar to May 2020  if the energy and infrastructure 
sectors were included in the general equity category - so this would suggest that was a 
typical composition of the fund - which in my view wasnt consistent with the sort of 
recommendation Id expect to see for an investor with a cautious ATR.
But I have to be mindful of the fact that I havent been provided with a breakdown of the 
portfolio at the time of AISAs recommendation or at other points between October 2021 and 
early 2022. And Im aware of the change in its composition between May and June 2020, so 
I cant discount similar changes happening along the way which might have shown the 
portfolio to be more cautious in its makeup. 
The general advice to transfer Mr Ps pensions 
But there is in my view a more significant issue to be decided which arguably renders any 
debate relating to a subsequent portfolio which was used somewhat moot. And that is 
whether it was right for Mr P to transfer away from his existing arrangement in the first place.
So before I decide to look in more detail at the cautious growth portfolio after the point at 
which Mr P invested, Ive looked at the suitability of the overall recommendation to transfer. 
Mr Ps complaint encompassed the question of whether AISA had provided a product to 
meet his needs and a solution to meet his objective of drawing income from the plan over a 
period of five years. 
So, using our inquisitorial remit, and in order to get to the heart of Mr Ps complaint about the 
suitability of AISAs recommendation, Ive looked at the initial advice to transfer based on the 
information provided in the fact find and suitability report that AISA completed  as well as 
the illustrations. 
 
Mr P says he made it clear to AISA what his retirement objectives were and it was agreed he 
would most probably draw down his pension funds, at the rate of around £40,000 net each 
year, over the course of five years from his 60th birthday. AISA says its main objective was 
simply to provide Mr Ps pension fund with the potential for greater growth. It says his 
original goals were to improve the performance over and above the funds that you had 
previously invested in yourself.
So Ive started by looking at the retirement planning objectives as set out in AISAs covering 
letter for its suitability report of September 2020. It said:
1 -You would like your existing Pension money of £229,996 to be managed by an 
Independent Financial Adviser you trust and a firm who can offer competent customer 
service. You would like to be kept up to date on the performance of your invested money 
and be able to easily speak to your adviser by phone and email.
2 - You are considering using this Pension money to provide an income over the 5 years 
from age 60 to 65, at which point your Final Salary Pension schemes will begin paying a 
yearly income.3 - You are not looking to make Pension contributions to this Personal Pension money at the 
current time but would like the ability to do so in the future if you wish.
4 - You would like to implement an investment strategy with an aim to achieve some growth 
without exposing the money to unnecessary risk.
Within the full body of the suitability report the adviser confirmed Mr Ps existing situation 
and provision. He said he would recommend a suitable strategy regarding your aim to 
building up funds ready for your retirement in less than 2 years time, at some point around 
your 60th birthday. You are planning on stopping work and then living on the money held in 
your Personal Pensions to take you through to your 65th birthday, at which point you will 
begin to receive yearly income from three Final Salary Pension schemes.
In an email to Mr P dated 25 August 2020 the adviser said that I appreciate that in the area 
of investment it will be speculative, but an indication based on my risk is ideally what is 
needed to see what the expected return would be. Key to this is the fact that this value of 
approximately £240K will be degrading by £40K (after tax) year on year and as such I have 
built in input boxes such that the related numbers can be reflected.
And in its replacement contract form document, AISA said Mr P would like to obtain 
improved investment fund management within his pension as he is 58 and would like to 
retire at age 60. He plans to use the money built up in these Personal Pensions to provide 
an income of £46,200 per year for 5 years
These references are consistent with what Mr P says were agreed and what his objectives 
were. It seems clear the adviser accepted the pension would be eroded by around 20% each 
year and that the withdrawals would start in little over a years time on Mr Ps 60th birthday. 
All the evidence Ive seen would support the idea that this was Mr Ps clear retirement 
strategy as he would then be in a position (at age 65) to live off the far greater benefits from 
his defined benefit occupational schemes. I think this is important as I believe any 
recommendation AISA made needed to ensure he was likely to be in a better position by 
transferring and drawing his income than he would be by leaving his funds where they were 
and taking the same course of action. 
It should be repeated that  although the adviser referred to Mr Ps situation in two years 
time at age 60, he was in fact only just over one year away from that position. 
So Ive looked at the reasons for transferring in more detail to see whether I think the 
transfer was justified. 
 
The breadth of funds and diversification
AISA said that Mr Ps existing pensions were invested across just two funds  bonds and 
diversified markets. It said this didnt offer sufficient diversification and the principal fund had 
underperformed against its peers. 
It also said there were only a small number of alternative funds available for each plan, 
however AISAs own research states there were 30 funds available, and the plan provider 
has confirmed that same information. 
But AISAs recommendation was primarily about building up Mr Ps funds in just two years 
before the drawdown began, although I note the report talked about taking income from 
Mr Ps 60th birthday  which was in fact, as Ive said above, only around one year away. So 
with the possible extra costs involved, and the cautious ATR, Im not persuaded that such 
diversification would have made a significant difference over such a short investment 
horizon. And there were still a number of alternatives with the original provider which I think would 
have been suitable for that period of time  especially as switches between funds would 
have been free. Ive looked at those funds and I think there is enough choice amongst each 
level of risk to be able to invest into a fund, or a number of funds, which would have been 
broadly in line with Mr Ps cautious ATR. 
Following a year or so of investment Mr P was looking to draw income at around £40,000 net 
per annum and was seemingly content with the notion of the fund being depleted by the 
income withdrawals. So in my view the preservation of invested capital which would enable 
such withdrawals would have been a more important factor in investing at that time than 
anything else  which wouldnt have required the level of diversification AISA had set out 
and could have been amply met by the funds offered by Mr Ps existing arrangements. Im 
not persuaded that the diversification of funds that AISA offered through its portfolio was a 
good enough reason for Mr P to transfer considering his position at that time. 
 
Charges
Because of the limited investment horizon, and the need for AISA to justify the transfer in 
terms of Mr P being better off financially, the level of charges for each plan was crucial to 
putting Mr P in an informed position about the recommendation. Ive seen that the charges of 
new plan were:
Annual providers charge of 0.25%. 
An average of 0.64% fund manager charges.
An initial adviser charge of 1% (£2,299) and an ongoing advice fee of 0.75%. 
Ive calculated that to be 2.64% in the first year at least  which is £3,734.23 plus £2,299, or 
£6,033.23 in total. This is based on the charge that would have been levied on the full fund 
and then on the remaining fund after advice fees were deducted. 
 
With regards to the previous plans there were no fees except for the annual management 
charge and other fees which made up the total expense ratio. AISA showed this to be 
around £1,150 within its own comparison figures. 
AISA also accepted that its recommendation was more expensive by 0.46% of the fund. This 
amount of around £1,150 is money that would be lost from the pension and unlikely to be 
recouped over time due to the income withdrawals and planned depletion of the fund over 
five years. From the evidence Ive seen  which shows AISAs recommendation to be more 
expensive, Im also not persuaded the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests from a charges 
perspective. Because of the limited investment horizon and the cautious ATR Mr P 
demonstrated  which ought to have reduced the capacity for such a fund to provide greater 
investment returns, I think its unlikely that the charges would have been recouped before 
Mr P began to withdraw the significant sums from his plan. 
But the principal way that the issue of charges  and their effect on the plan - could have 
been resolved, was for AISA to have provided Mr P with a comparative illustration of the two 
plans. I know AISA said that it doesnt usually carry out such quotations because it doesnt 
think its a fair comparison  and I accept that the regulators guide to illustrations only allows 
for the same prescriptive growth rates to be used. But such illustrations do require each 
provider to set out all the charges involved so this would have provided Mr P with an idea of 
what plan might have given him greater returns based on charges alone. 
Mr P could then have looked at the historic returns for AISAs recommended portfolio and 
compared this against the previous providers funds  including any that he might have considered switching into. This research would then have allowed him to incorporate that 
information with what was available from the illustration, which I think would have put him in 
a more informed position. Based on that process I find it more likely than not that Mr P, with 
his objectives already set, would have chosen the path which would have appeared to be 
financially in his best interests.
  
The objective of Wanting to be kept up to date on the performance of your invested money 
and be able to easily speak to your adviser by phone and email.
Whilst I accept that this could be seen as one of a number of other factors to consider 
when recommending transferring, I dont think Mr P would have seen this to be as important 
as being financially better off  as Ive already explained. So, I would find it difficult to 
conclude that the transfer was appropriate simply because of AISAs ability to keep Mr P 
updated about his plan. Further, Im not persuaded that AISA were likely to provide more 
information about Mr Ps plan that his previous provider was able to do so by way of annual 
statements, or ad hoc investment information if requested, and theres nothing to suggest he 
was finding it difficult to contact his previous provider when necessary. 
I think its fair to say that Mr P was approaching a phase of his retirement where he wanted 
to be more involved in his plan  which included planning for the subsequent annual 
withdrawals. But in my view theres nothing to suggest he wouldnt have contacted his 
existing provider during this time had his pension remained with it. 
Future pension contributions 
AISA said that Mr P wanted the facility to make future pension contributions if needed but 
didnt intend to do so currently. 
I can understand that Mr P might want this option available to him, but Ive not been 
presented with any evidence to suggest this option wouldnt have remained available to him 
with his existing provider. So its not clear to me that this was another reason to transfer with 
AISA which Mr P couldnt in any case have achieved with his existing previous provider. 
Ongoing reviews and communications
Mr P spoke with AISA again in the summer of 2021 to review the position of his plan. 
At this time he was three months away from his objective of retiring and burning through 
his pension fund. During the review Mr P seemed disappointed with his returns and wanted 
to know if he could obtain greater growth - although no fund changes were subsequently 
made. But Mr Ps email of 29 July 2021, which said whilst I appreciate mine are set with a 
low risk profile, would suggest that he thought he was invested in low risk funds, and I note 
this assertion wasnt challenged by the adviser in his responses.
 
Indeed, an email from the adviser the following day said If we were to move you in to a 
Balanced or Growth portfolio, risk grade 5 or 6 rather than 4, then you would have potential 
for a higher return but youd have to accept that you could lose more money if markets fall. 
This is a big risk for you as youre looking to use this Pension money to pay a specific 
amount of money over the next few years.
I think this exchange showed that, while Mr P was perhaps misguided about what returns he 
could expect from a cautious investment in just over a year, there was an understanding 
and agreement between him and AISA that he didnt want to take too much investment risk 
and that he would be drawing significant levels of income from the plan each year 
regardless. I think this is important because it goes back to the original reasons for transferring and reinforces that, with the objectives Mr P held, there needed to be a strong 
justification for this transfer. AISA needed to show that Mr P would most likely be better off 
after transferring and then be able to meet his objective of drawing down the entire fund 
within five years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered the further submissions and evidence from both parties I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So Ill set out my reasons in full below.
Mr Ps complaint to AISA was that, for a number of reasons, it hadnt implemented and then 
failed to manage an appropriate investment strategy to achieve his objectives. He said this 
resulted in poor investment performance and led to a financial loss to his pension plan. He 
wanted that loss to be refunded to him. In my provisional decision I said that we wouldnt 
usually uphold a complaint solely about investment performance because of the very nature 
of investments being that they could fall and rise according to a number of primarily external 
factors. But I said we could, under our inquisitorial remit, look at what lies at the heart of a 
complaint and consider the whole picture.  In this case that meant I considered the suitability 
of AISAs transfer advice in respect of whether that might have caused the loss Mr P 
complained about. 
So I first looked Mr Ps ATR  which was agreed as risk grade 4 after some discussion 
following completion of a risk profile questionnaire. This led to a recommendation of a 
cautious growth portfolio  which I think was broadly in accordance with Mr Ps considered 
ATR. So I was satisfied that AISA had accurately defined Mr Ps risk profile, based on the 
questionnaire and what else was known about his previous investment experience and his 
capacity for loss. So I think AISAs investment portfolio recommendation was broadly 
suitable although I then looked at the composition of the portfolio that was recommended.
In my provisional decision I expressed some concern that on certain dates the asset 
allocation of the portfolio didnt appear to be broadly in line with a cautious ATR. But I 
accepted that the makeup of the portfolio may have changed during those dates for which I 
hadnt been provided with a breakdown of its assets. But before I considered looking at the 
composition of the portfolio in more depth, I looked at the overall suitability of the 
recommendation to transfer and whether it was right for Mr P to transfer away from his 
existing arrangements in the first place. I thought this was a more significant issue to 
consider and rendered the discussion about the risk profile of the portfolio less material to 
the outcome of the complaint.
AISA has said that it was clear Mr P was dissatisfied with his existing provision and, after 
some discussion around alternative funds he could switch into through his existing provider, 
rejected that idea and wouldnt have accepted advice to do so. I can see that Mr P was 
introduced to AISA by a friend and Im satisfied that he did want to speak with AISA to 
discuss his retirement options. 
But Mr P had a clear vision of his objectives - which were to use up his existing personal 
pension provision in the five years leading up to when he could access his final salary 
scheme benefits. Of course, Mr P was interested in finding out whether a possible transfer 
and investment elsewhere would help him achieve that objective but provide greater growth 
on his funds in the meantime. But I havent seen any evidence to support the idea that he was adamant he wanted to transfer and had rejected the alternative of switching funds within 
his existing provision out of hand. 
AISAS suitability report set out an appraisal of his existing plans, but it simply presented the 
reasons why it thought a transfer would be in Mr Ps best interests. For example, the report 
stated that the plans only have a small number of alternative funds available in each 
Pension plan should you wish to diversify your money further. Now that the total pensions 
are worth more than £229,000 it would be advisable to introduce a larger range of funds and 
an actively managed investment strategy. However, it also noted that there were 30 
investment funds available through the existing provider. 
Of course, Im mindful that Mr P accepted the recommendation, but Im not persuaded that 
he would have rejected an alternative recommendation to switch within his existing funds if 
he had been presented with more information about the actual funds available and their 
suitability to his agreed ATR. Its not possible for me to know the details of the conversation 
Mr P and the adviser would have had about the alternatives here  and I dont dispute that 
the matter was discussed as it was replayed in the suitability report, but I havent seen any 
evidence to support the idea that Mr P was closed to the idea of remaining with his existing 
providers and potentially switching funds. 
But AISAs recommendation was based on its belief that it was suitable for Mr P and that his 
objectives wouldnt be met by remaining with his existing provider (and funds), so its the 
suitability of this recommendation that Ive considered further. 
Charges
AISA made a number of points in response to my view that the additional charges Mr P 
would pay on transferring were a principal reason for the recommendation being unsuitable. 
It said:
I had double counted the initial advice charge Mr P would have to pay. Id also 
ignored that he would have needed to pay the 1% advice charge to AISA even if he 
remained with his existing provider and switched funds. And he would have needed 
to pay ad-hoc fees every time he wanted further advice over the following years  
which would have been more expensive.
It thought the extra costs of transferring would have been recouped over the term 
and offset by greater performance.
If Mr P had taken its advice to review his portfolio in July 2022 his portfolio would 
have outperformed the previous funds by over 3%.
Mr P would have needed to seek advice about his (flexible) options with his existing 
provider when he retired. That provider, as far it knew, didnt offer advice so Mr P 
would have had to pay for further independent advice which would probably have 
meant the transfer would have ended up being less expensive
So Ive carefully considered the documents which set out the charges of the existing plans 
and the new portfolio. In the illustration Mr P was provided with, within the section entitled 
what are the charges, it was noted that the initial adviser charge was 1%, the annual adviser 
charge 0.75%, and the custody charge 0.25% (£579).
In the suitability letter it said, the charges on the above plans are competitive but we are not 
moving the money based on charges and therefore did not project returns to a retirement 
age. It noted the existing plans had fund annual management charges of 0.5% in both 
cases. So AISA accepted and confirmed the charges would be greater on transferring.
For the new recommendation the plan charges were a 0.25% annual platform charge, and an average yearly fund manager charge of 0.64% for the portfolio in question. I havent 
included these charges as theyre broadly negated by the existing plans annual 
management charge. 
So this leaves the AISA summary of charges as directly stated in the suitability report as:
Summary of Charges
I explained the AISA Retirement Planning Initial Fee regarding this advice would be 1% of 
the invested amount, therefore based on a total of £229,996 this would be £2,299. The 
remaining total invested would be £227,697.
Ongoing Fee
AISA Retirement Planning will receive an ongoing fee of 0.75% which pays towards regular 
portfolio management and ongoing reviews. Based on a total investment of £227,697 this 
would be an ongoing fee of £1,707 per year, paid directly from the Pension.
All Key Features documentation was given to you. Your illustration was included and they 
detail the fee being received by AISA Retirement Planning for having given this advice.
Including the first annual custody fee of 0.25% would mean that in the first year a total of 2% 
would be taken from the fund simply in relation to additional charges on top of the annual 
management charges  which I havent included for the reasons stated. So I dont agree that 
Ive double counted the new fees that Mr P would have paid in the first year. Thats 
because the first year would have included the initial charge, one ongoing adviser fee charge 
and the custody charge. Its coincidental that the last two charges total 1%, the same as the 
initial charge. So 2% would been taken from Mr Ps pension by the end of the first year.  
AISA has made a number of points about its adviser charge. It says that the regulator makes 
it clear that if Mr P requires ongoing advice then it should recommend a product that lends 
itself to this requirement. It also says that, as the previous providers didnt offer the option of 
adviser charging, then Mr P would have had to use AISA on a transactional basis for advice 
on those products  which would have led to an overall higher charging structure throughout 
the term of the plan. It even pointed to the fees he would need to pay in retirement in order 
to draw his benefits flexibly if he remained with his existing provider. Ultimately AISA 
concluded that it would be reasonable to recommend a transfer on the basis of a cost 
increase of between just 0.22-0.46%. 
Much of AISAs justification about the charges came from its understanding that, whether he 
wanted to draw his benefits fully or simply make the withdrawals he intended to, Mr Ps 
previous provider would have required him to seek financial advice to do those things  
which would have led to him incurring transactional advice charges at a greater level than 
the ongoing charges that AISA set out as part of its recommendation to transfer. 
So I asked Mr Ps previous provider to confirm its position around these events that Mr P 
would have been likely to request. It confirmed that, because both Mr Ps plans had fully 
flexible retirement options, he could have withdrawn any sum he wished without charge or 
without any advice being required. 
It went on to state that it also offered an in house drawdown service which would have 
allowed Mr P to switch to a flexi access drawdown plan if required  again without the need 
for advice or any charge. So in fact, Mr P could have carried out his objectives of burning 
through his funds at the rate of around £40,000 per annum until the fund was exhausted. 
This not only means that he wouldnt have incurred any costs to meet those objectives, but because he would have exhausted his funds at retirement he wouldnt have had any 
requirement for any of the retirement advice or advice on how to retire flexible that AISA 
suggested he would need to pay for. There simply wouldnt have been any funds left to take 
advice on.  
Indeed, because Mr Ps objectives were so straightforward, I think that once hed switched 
into more appropriate funds at inception  if he wanted to do that, Mr P would have been 
unlikely to require any further advice except to make his yearly request for income. The 
previous provider has already confirmed this could have been achieved without any charges. 
So I dont agree with AISAs suggestions that, over the five year term, Mr P would pay more 
in transactional charges than he had on transferring.   
AISA also states that the ongoing adviser charge was ultimately 0.6% instead of 0.75% so 
again believes my calculations are wrong. But I can only base my decision on the evidence 
that Ive been provided with and, in this case, the information that Mr P would have been 
provided with from the suitability report and the illustration  which both confirm the adviser 
charge at 0.75%.
Even if AISA has demonstrated these fees might not have been correct, Mr P could only 
have based his decision on the information he received at the time of the recommendation  
which in my view showed that the new plan was significantly more expensive than the 
existing plans.  
It then went on to conclude that had Mr P not switched to cash funds and continued to take 
its advice he would have seen an above 3% growth on his portfolio after that point in July 
2022.  AISA said it didnt think Id taken into account Mr Ps actions in switching to cash or 
his failure to adhere to its offer of further advice and a review.      
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr P to switch his funds to cash at that point as I 
think that was as a result of taking fright at the position AISA had placed him in. And Mr P 
has told us that AISAs offer was only brought about by his complaint. He says its suggestion 
that it would also offer him 12 months free servicing supports the idea that the review was 
simply an attempt to keep his business. But in case that point isnt material with regards to 
the overall suitability of the recommendation, and Ive made an allowance for Mr Ps actions 
at that time by capping any liability of financial loss within my redress methodology. 
The other reasons for transferring 
AISAs recommendation was based on several other reasons it gave for the transfer. These 
were set out within my provisional decision.  The first one was being kept up to date with 
investment performance and being easily able to speak to an adviser, and the second one 
was being able to make further pension contributions. And I accept that these are legitimate 
factors to consider when appraising the suitability of a transfer. 
But I havent been presented with any evidence to show that Mr P was unable to do these 
things through his existing provider. Mr P would have received annual statements about his 
plans which would have shown the investment performance and I think he would have been 
able to contact the provider if he needed any additional support such as making his annual 
withdrawals.  And theres nothing to support the claim he couldnt make additional 
contributions to the plans if he wished to  although Mr Ps circumstances and goals would 
suggest this was unlikely to be a requirement in any case.  
AISA said Mr P didnt want to take unnecessary risk but didnt suggest he wouldnt take any 
risk. It provided us with evidence to show that its recommended portfolio was in fact in line 
with his ATR (risk rated 4) and Mr P had spoken to it about higher risk rated investments including Bitcoin.  But Ive already accepted that AISAs recommendation was probably in 
line with Mr Ps cautious ATR and was suitable in that respect. I have raised doubts about 
the overall composition of the portfolio with regards to such a risk profile but, as I explained, I 
havent considered this any further as I regard it as less material to the outcome Ive reached 
than the other factors Ive set out above. 
I have though taken into account Mr Ps ATR when setting out my redress formula and Im 
mindful about whats been said about his capacity for loss and that he would feel 
comfortable losing around 15% of his fund value. But I cant ignore the fact that his ATR 
was agreed as cautious growth (rating 4) in the questionnaire that he completed, and this 
has been accepted and agreed by all the parties involved. Subsequent discussions were had 
around higher risk rated investments, but I think these were because Mr P was disillusioned 
with the investment performance he was achieving and was focused on ways to improve it. I 
havent seen any evidence that would persuade me that Mr Ps circumstances had changed 
between 2020 and July 2022 to the extent that his ATR would have altered significantly. 
AISA said that the comments I had made around Mr Ps actual retirement age were 
incorrect. It said its suitability report stated that the date was less than two years time, but 
in any case the investment would continue for up to six years when the five year period over 
which Mr P wanted to make withdrawals was taken into account. I did highlight what I 
believed to be an inconsistency in AISAs report as on the date it was written Mr P was one 
year and six weeks away from his retirement date. But I accept that the investment of his 
funds would be over an additional five years from his retirement date while he withdrew his 
funds at around 20% per year. I think Ive already set out in detail why I believe that advice 
not to be suitable in this case.
AISA also said that there was no regulatory requirement for it to provide an illustration and it 
didnt think that, if it had, Mr P would automatically have opted to remain with his existing 
providers because of the information contained within the quotation. But, as I said 
previously, Mr P wasnt presented with a comparison of the likely investment growth from the 
two different schemes, which I believe would have given him an idea of what he could 
expect  using prescriptive growth rates set by the regulator, but based on the actual 
charges applied to each respective plan. I think that if Mr P had seen that he would be better 
off financially  albeit without taking into account the potential returns of the various 
portfolios and plans  he would have more likely than not chosen the path which showed him 
to be potentially better off financially, particularly as his objective was to make significant 
annual withdrawals from his fund. I think Mr Ps primary reason for transferring would have 
been if it were shown to be in his best interest financially. 
Summary
In my opinion, when looking at the overall transfer here, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best
interests. I dont think the available evidence supports the position that he would more likely
than not be better off by transferring.
And I dont think Mr P was presented with information such as an illustration for example, 
which would have put him in a more informed position to make his decision. I think the 
transfer resulted in Mr P incurring higher initial and ongoing costs and I think its unlikely that 
these increased costs would have been recouped over the relatively shorter investment 
horizon.
I think Mr P could have quite amply achieved his objectives simply by remaining where he
was. The provider has confirmed his plan had the flexibility to be able to withdraw the funds
he wanted over the five year period. Its also provided a list of alternative funds  some of
which were appropriate for his ATR - which would have been free to switch into. I find it
difficult not to conclude that switching to another fund within his existing arrangement for justover a year until he started to draw his income wouldnt have been a better option for Mr P in
the circumstances.
And as Ive already explained in detail above, Im not completely persuaded, based on the
evidence I have seen, that the portfolio Mr P was recommended was composed of
investments which were completely in line with his ATR.
For these reasons I think AISA should carry out the calculation below to see if Mr P has
suffered a financial loss as a result of its transfer recommendation.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think that Mr P could have remained with the same provider and continued to use his
stakeholder plans  but I cant be sure which investments he may have switched to, if indeed
he needed to switch at all. So, as its not possible to say precisely what he would have done,
Ive used a benchmark to reflect the cautious investment profile Mr P held. Im satisfied that
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives
when he invested.
What must AISA do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, AISA must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
AISA should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
AISA should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AISA is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AISA deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. AISA should give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Pension plan Still exists and 
liquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate that AISA 
said it would 
review Mr Ps 
risk profile and 
funds in July 
2022. That loss 
should then be 
brought up to 
date using the 
same 
benchmark 
(average rate 
from fixed 
bonds)8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, AISA should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Pension plan should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if AISA totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Both parties have put forward alternative suggestions for how I should bring any financial 
loss up to date, suggesting that Mr P wanted to take more risk after July 2022. But I havent 
seen anything to show that Mr Ps actual ATR had changed, I think his instincts were to 
discuss whichever investments he thought might improve the poor returns he was receiving  not a reflection of his actual risk profile. I think the fact that he had switched to cash at that 
time confirmed his concerns. I think the loss should be updated by the same ATR that was 
agreed between Mr P and AISA in 2020  which was a cautious ATR. 
I note Mr A wanted us to confirm that the starting value of his pension in 2020 was in fact 
£241,680.26 as set out in a pension report he provided us with. But that report was from 
August 2021  a year after the transfer was completed. All the evidence Ive seen would 
suggest the value of the transfer was around £229,985, so I think this is the figure that will be 
applicable. Although AISA should be able to confirm this in its calculation by including copies 
of the actual transfer application or any other documents from the time which confirmed the 
actual amount transferred. 
So I think Mr P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking much of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mr P would have invested only in a fixed 
rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little risk to 
the capital.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ps complaint. My decision is that AISA 
FINANCIAL PLANNING LIMITED should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
AISA FINANCIAL PLANNING LIMITED should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a 
clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman