DRN-2691256
The complaint
Mr D complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo unfairly accepted 
him as the guarantor on a loan taken out by the borrower. Mr D said Trusttwo didnt 
properly carry out affordability checks or assess the signs that he was already over 
indebted. 
What happened
The borrower was given a single loan by Trusttwo as follows:
Date Amount TermMonthly 
repayment
29/11/2018 £5,000 36 Months £244.06
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She felt that the checks 
Trusttwo had done before signing Mr D up as guarantor were sufficient and its lending 
decision was fair based on the information it had seen. So she didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld or that Trusttwo needed to pay any compensation to Mr D. 
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about guarantor loans on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint. Having done so, Ive 
come to the same view as our investigator and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why I say this.
Trusttwo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D 
could afford to make the loan payments in the event he had to before accepting him as the 
guarantor on this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are 
guaranteeing.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the payments will need to be 
made for an extended period).
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looked affordable, Trusttwo still needed to 
think about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to 
accept Mr D as guarantor. For example, if it shouldve realised that Mr D was already 
struggling with debt.
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Trusttwo did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr D.
Trusttwo gathered some information from Mr D before it agreed to accept him as 
guarantor. 
It asked him for details of his income and his normal expenditure on rent. It also relied 
on statistical information and factored into its calculations an amount that reflected the 
typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Ds position might reasonably expect to 
pay. It did a background check to verify his income. And it checked his credit file to 
assess how much he was repaying to other creditors.
Trusttwo told us that its agent went through a detailed assessment of Mr Ds finances during 
a phone call. 
Trusttwo gathered information that showed Mr Ds monthly take home pay was £1,800 
and it allowed for him spending 35% of that amount (£630) on his usual monthly 
outgoings  which seems reasonable to me for someone in Mr Ds position. Trusttwo 
also factored into its affordability calculation that Mr D said he paid £150 for his board 
and lodgings. 
And, after doing its own credit checks, it worked out that he paid £165 per month 
towards his own existing credit commitments.  
Relying on these figures, Trusttwo worked out that Mr D would have around £855 available 
to spend after paying his regular existing monthly outgoings and servicing his own debt  so 
the monthly repayments of around £244 for the loan he was guaranteeing looked like they 
would be comfortably affordable for him.  
Looked at overall, based on all the information it seems Mr D told Trusttwo and the 
information it recorded for him, it wouldve looked like Mr D had sufficient money left after 
paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay this loan if called upon as guarantor 
to do so.
I think that Trusttwo gave Mr D fair opportunity to provide relevant information about his 
financial situation  and if he didnt tell Trusttwo about other spending or the fact that he was 
struggling financially at the time I dont think its reasonable to expect Trusttwo to have 
known this. The credit checks it carried out didnt reveal anything that shouldve prompted Trusttwo to 
probe more deeply into Mr Ds financial situation or take further steps to verify what he was 
saying.
I think its fair to say that the information Trusttwo could see suggested it was likely that Mr D 
was in a stable enough position to maintain the loan payments in the event he had to. 
The information Mr D provided was plausible and consistent. 
And when Trusttwo decided to accept him as guarantor on this loan, that decision doesnt 
seem unreasonable to me looking at the information Trusttwo relied on  which I think it was 
entitled to do in these particular circumstances.  
I accept that Mr D might not have expected to make the payments as the borrower signed up 
to do this. 
But I think Mr D was aware he was signing up to guarantee the monthly repayments on a 
high cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
So I havent seen enough to make me think that Trusttwo acted unfairly when accepting his 
application to be the guarantor.
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Trusttwo did do anything wrong. 
It accepted Mr D as a guarantor after having carried out proportionate checks which 
suggested the repayments would be affordable for him in the event he had to make them. 
Mr Ds actions, at the time at least, also suggested he was willingly agreeing to act as a 
guarantor on this loan. 
This means Trusttwo was entitled to ask for payments from Mr D in addition to, or even 
instead of, the borrower in the event the loan payments werent being made. 
So overall I dont think that Trusttwo treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when accepting 
him as a guarantor on this loan, or when it asked him to make payments.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D but I hope the way Ive set things 
out helps him to understand the reasons for my decision and that he will at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to. 
I would remind Trusttwo that although Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint, nonetheless it has 
an obligation to exercise forbearance, should it choose to collect payments from Mr D if hes 
in financial difficulty.
And if Mr D would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman