DRN-4463723
The complaint
Ms As complaint is about a claim she made on her Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd (C&G) pet insurance policy, which was declined.
Ms A says C&G treated her unfairly and wants her claim to be paid. 
What happened
In January 2023 Ms A took out a pet insurance policy with C&G. In April that year she made 
a claim on the policy for vet's fees incurred in relation to treating her pets left eye. C&G 
considered her claim but declined it. They said the condition was pre-existing and that the 
policy terms wouldnt cover this sort of situation. They also referred to the condition being 
bilateral, as defined by the policy, and said that if Ms A had disclosed the earlier condition 
when she took out the cover, they would have placed an exclusion against the policy for the 
same condition, as they had done now.  
Ms A said that whilst her pet did have treatment for an injury to its right eye three years 
before the policy engaged, this had nothing to do with the cause of the injury to its left eye on 
this occasion and the condition itself wasnt pre-existing. She also provided evidence from 
her vet which said the treatment to both of the pets eyes wasnt related. In addition, she said 
there was nothing to disclose when she took out the cover because her pet didnt have any 
pre-existing conditions and the treatment to its right eye had resolved some considerable 
time before.
C&G maintained that the condition Ms A was claiming for was pre-existing and stood by their 
earlier decision to decline her claim. Unhappy, Ms A referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator considered Ms As complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He said 
the evidence supports the condition being claimed for wasnt pre-existing or bilateral as 
contended by C&G and that she didnt misrepresent the position with regard to this when 
taking out cover. As a result, the investigator directed C&G to pay the claim plus interest at 
8% from the time Ms A paid her vets fees until the claim is paid. He also awarded £100 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms A as a result of the claim 
being declined.
C&G dont agree with the investigators view. They maintain their interpretation of the policy 
terms in light of the claim made are correct. As such the matter has been passed to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Ms As complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator in his view. Ive explained why below.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
What is not insured?
Any claim that relates to a Pre-existing Condition or that showed Clinical Signs or 
Symptoms before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period;
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition or that 
showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting 
Period.
So, the issue I need to determine is whether the claim made is in relation to a pre-existing 
condition or showed clinical signs or symptoms before the policy start date.
Pre-existing Condition is defined as any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of 
existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Clinical Signs are defined as any observable changes in Your pet's normal healthy state: 
condition: appearance: bodily functions and observed by You or Your Vet either visually; 
diagnostically; or otherwise.
Symptoms are defined as any change in Your pets normal healthy state, conduct or 
appearance.
Ive thought about what C&G have said, but looking at the pets clinical history, Im not 
persuaded that the condition the pet was treated for could fairly be said to be pre-existing or 
that it had any clinical signs or symptoms of the condition it was treated for. I say so because 
Ms A has given persuasive testimony to say the cause of the injury to the pets right eye 
three years before the claim was made, was from a piece of wood, whilst the cause of the 
injury to its left eye (that is the subject of the present claim) was from debris landing in it from 
a garden fire. And whilst its right that on both occasions the injuries resulted in ulcers to the 
pets eyes, that was the only commonality. The injuries were to two different eyes so Im not 
persuaded that it can be fairly said the claims related to pre-existing conditions, clinical signs 
or symptoms.
C&G have said the condition being claimed for is bilateral and excluded by the policy 
because the treatment to the pets right eye makes it pre-existing. The policy defines 
Bilateral Condition as any medical Condition that can affect body parts of which Your pet 
has two, on either side of Its body, such as ears, eyes, knees, kneecaps, front and back legs 
and feet, cruciate ligaments, hips, mammary glands, lungs, kidneys, ovaries, testicles, 
shoulders and elbows and which can occur at different times. When applying the Benefit 
Limit and the terms of this Policy, any Treatment for Bilateral Conditions will be considered 
as one Condition, regardless of when the Treatment. 
The evidence Ive seen from Ms As vet and the testimony given by Ms A in respect of the 
cause of the injuries to the pets respective eyes doesnt support there being a bilateral 
condition. Ms As vet was clear that the cause of the ulcer that was the subject of the present 
claim was not related to the traumatic incident that occurred years before in the other eye. In 
light of this and in the absence of anything from C&G to support there was a medical 
condition that affected both of the pets eyes at differing times, I dont think C&G were 
entitled to turn Ms As claim down.
C&G have said that Ms A didnt declare the problem with the pets right eye before she took 
out cover and had she done so, they would have placed an exclusion against the policy. Ive considered this. But I dont think thats right. When Ms A took out the policy in January 2023 
she was asked Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?. She 
answered no to this question. Given the injury to the pets right eye was treated and 
resolved some considerable time before cover was taken out, and the cause of the problem 
wasnt because of a medical condition, I dont think Ms A was wrong to answer the question 
in the way that she did. As such Im not satisfied that she misrepresented the position with 
regard to pre-existing conditions when she took out cover. Because of this C&G werent 
entitled to apply an exclusion at the time of the claim or going forward. 
In determining how C&G should put things right, Ive thought about Miss As submissions 
about the difficulty their actions caused her. Shes spoken specifically about the strain on her 
household finances in having to fund vets fees herself at a time when she was already 
under financial strain. Ive accounted for this in my award of compensation below, which I 
think is adequate to compensate her in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I direct C&G to:
Pay Ms As claim subject to the remaining policy terms.
Pay Ms A interest at 8% per year simple from the time Ms A paid vets fees, until C&G 
reimburse her for them.
Remove the policy exclusion C&G applied in light of Ms As claim to this policy and any 
subsequent policy years if Ms A choses to renew her insurance with them.
Pay Ms A £100 for the trouble and upset they caused in unfairly declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms As complaint and direct Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman