DRN-3651073
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down his claim under his 
motor insurance policy after his van was stolen.
What happened
Mr K bought a van to use in connection with his business. He bought it privately via an 
online marketplace in cash. Hes explained how hed been concerned about the V5, as it 
wouldnt scan when he took it to the Post Office. So, he took it to the police and asked 
them to check whether the van had been stolen. Theyd told him it hadnt been, but was 
uninsured. Mr K already had a motor insurance policy with Aviva and contacted them to 
change the vehicle insured under it to his new van. He parked the van at 4pm on the day 
he bought it in parking spaces outside his flat. When he looked for it the next morning he 
realised it had been stolen, as another vehicle was parked in the space where hed parked 
it. He later checked with the person whose vehicle was parked in the space and he told 
him hed parked his vehicle there in the early hours of the morning. Mr K has also 
explained that he was provided with two keys for the van and that hed left one, along with 
the receipt for the van, in the glove compartment when he parked it. Hes also explained 
that hes sure he locked the van when he left it, as he tried the door to make sure he 
couldnt open it.
Mr K has also explained that there was no sign of anyone having broken into his van, such 
as broken glass on the ground next to where it was parked, and that he didnt hear the 
alarm on it go off.
Mr K called Aviva to make a claim under his policy. Avivas claim handler took all the 
details and asked Mr K to send certain information. And said when hed sent this hed 
arrange for the claim to be considered. Mr K sent the information and, having considered 
the claim, Aviva turned it down. They explained this was because  under the terms of Mr 
Ks policy - theft of his van was excluded if hed left a key in it.
Mr K complained to us and one of our investigators considered his complaint. She said it 
wasnt fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on the policy exclusion, as it was clear from 
the circumstances surrounding the theft that the key Mr K had left in the glove 
compartment had not been used to steal the van. And that Mr Ks van would still have 
been stolen even if he hadnt left the key in it. This was because she thought it was most 
likely Mr K had been the
victim of a scam and the person who sold it to him or their associates still had a key for 
the van and used this to steal it.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigators assessment and therefore Mr Ks complaint was 
passed to me for a decision. They referred to Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 and 
explained that they accepted there was an onus on them to show that the exclusion 
theyd relied on was material to the loss being claimed for. And they said their stance 
was that on the balance of probabilities Mr Ks van was stolen using the spare key left in 
the glove compartment. So they felt theyd shown the exclusion was material to the theft.
I issued a provisional decision on the 1 August 2022 and I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Mr Ks policy covers loss as a result of theft. But Aviva have relied on the following 
exclusion to turn down his claim.
Loss or damage arising from theft while:
- your vehicles ignition keys (including any device or code used to secure, 
gain access to, or to enable your vehicle to be driven) have been left in 
or on your vehicle.
Aviva are correct to say that the onus is on them to show that this exclusion is material to 
the loss Mr K has claimed for. The Insurance Act 2015 actually refers to the need for the 
insured (in this case Mr K) to show their failure to comply with a policy term could not have 
increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it 
occurred. But, I think, when declining a claim, Aviva should consider the materiality of any 
exclusion they wish to rely on as part of their duty to treat their customers fairly. 
Especially, in respect of the abovementioned exclusion, as this is effectively a term 
placing a duty on the consumer not to do something, ie leave a key in their vehicle. So, 
whether Mr Ks failure to remove the spare key from his van increased the risk of it being 
stolen in the circumstances in which this occurred is the main consideration for me in 
determining whether the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be to allow 
Aviva to rely on the abovementioned exclusion to decline Mr Ks claim.
Aviva has said it thinks it has shown on the balance of probabilities that the spare key Mr 
K left in the glove compartment was used to steal his van. The problem is Aviva have 
not at any point really explained why they think this is the case.
When I consider what happened, it seems fairly obvious to me that Mr K has been the 
victim of some sort of scam. I say this because he bought a van via an online marketplace 
in cash for less than someone would normally have to pay for it, the V5 didnt scan 
properly when he took it to the Post Office and the person he bought it from or an 
accomplice could easily have followed Mr K to find out his address. And the very same 
night Mr K parked the van at his home address it was stolen. When this happened the 
alarm didnt go off and there was no evidence left of anyone having broken into the van. I 
think this all shows it is more likely than not that the person who sold Mr K the van, or 
people associated with them, had a spare key and simply came back and used this to 
steal the van.
So, Im surprised that Aviva have suggested it is more likely than not that the key Mr K left 
in the glove compartment was used to steal it. I say this because if the thieves already 
had a key they would not have needed to use the key Mr K left in it. And, I doubt very 
much the thieves even bothered to check the glove compartment to see whether there 
was another
key in it, as they had no real reason to. Therefore, in my opinion, the fact there was a key 
in the glove compartment could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred, that is Mr Ks van being stolen by the person who sold it to him or people 
associated with them. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
allow Aviva to rely on the abovementioned exclusion to turn down Mr Ks claim.
This all means I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ks complaint is for me to 
require Aviva to deal with his claim for his van in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy, that is  they are not entitled to rely on the abovementioned 
exclusion, but any other terms and conditions in the policy will apply, such as the excess. 
Mr K has mentioned that he had materials in his van when it was stolen. His policy doesnt 
cover materials, but it does cover business tools up to £500. So  if by materials Mr K 
means tools, then Aviva will need to consider the loss of these as part of his claim.
Ive also considered the impact of Avivas decision to decline Mr Ks claim on him. Hes 
explained to us that he wasnt able to afford a replacement van and that this combined 
with the fact materials he used for his business were in the van when it was stolen meant 
he couldnt continue his business. Instead, he borrowed the money to buy a family car and 
did something different to raise the money he needed to support him and his family. He 
has also explained how stressful this all was for him.
In view of what Mr K has said, it is difficult for me to assess the financial impact Avivas 
incorrect decision to turn down his claim had on him, as Im not sure whether by materials 
he is referring to tools or the raw materials he used for his business as a stonemason. 
Plus, it was Mr Ks choice to stop his business and do something different. In view of this, I 
think it is more appropriate for me to make Aviva compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of their decision to turn down his claim. And Ive 
provisionally decided  based on the significant impact the decision must have had on Mr 
K - to award £500.
I gave both parties until 15 August to provide further comments and evidence. Mr K 
hasnt provided any further comments or evidence. Aviva responded to say that they 
didnt agree with my provisional decision and that they were referring the matter to 
their techncial team and would be in touch. But, theyve not provided any further 
comments and evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Aviva doesnt agree with my provisional decision, but it hasnt said why this is 
the case. And it still hasnt explained why it thinks it is more likely than not that the key Mr K 
left in his van was used to steal it. As Aviva have not explained why they dont agree with my 
provisional decision or provided any further comments and evidence; and because Mr K 
hasnt provided any further comments and evidence either, I see no reason to change what I 
decided the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint was in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ks complaint is for 
me to require Aviva to deal with his claim for his van in accordance with the remaining 
terms and conditions of his policy, that is  they are not entitled to rely on the 
abovementioned exclusion, but any other terms and conditions in the policy will apply, 
such as the excess. 
Mr K has mentioned that he had materials in his van when it was stolen. His policy doesnt 
cover materials, but it does cover business tools up to £500. So  if by materials Mr K 
means tools, then Aviva will need to consider the loss of these as part of his claim.
And I also think based on the significant impact the decision to turn down his claim must 
have had on Mr K Aviva should pay him £500 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenienceMy final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and order Aviva Insurance 
Limited to deal with his claim, including any claim for business tools that were in his 
van, without relying on the abovementioned exclusion and in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
I also award Mr K £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman