DRN-1511261
Complaint
Mrs A has complained that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mis-advised her to transfer her 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). She believes shes been financially disadvantaged 
because of the advice she received.
Background
In 1991, following the advice received from Barclays Life, Mrs A transferred her OPS into a 
Barclays Life Personal Pension where it was placed into a managed fund. 
In October 1994, the regulator at the time instructed authorised firms to carry out an industry 
wide Pension Review for pension advice given between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. 
The purpose of the pension review was to redress customers who were given unsuitable 
pension advise. The regulator provided guidelines to firms that detailed the methodology 
they would use to calculate whether a loss had occurred and what redress was owed.
In 1997 Mrs A was invited to participate in the Pension Review and following her agreement 
the transfer of Mrs As policy was reviewed. The result of this review showed that the 
transfer had in fact been mis-sold and Barclays Life found that Mrs A was due a redress of 
around £560. After consulting with her financial advisor at the time, Mrs A accepted the offer 
in November 1997 as a full and final settlement.
In 2011 Mrs As pension with Barclays Life was transferred to ReAssure after it acquired 
Barclays Life. From this point ReAssure took on all liability regarding this policy.
In 2018 Mrs A raised a complaint with ReAssure about the advice she received to transfer 
her pension out of her OPS. She said that the amount shes entitled to receive at age 55 is 
significantly less then what she couldve expected to receive with her previous OPS. She 
also stated that the amount of redress shed received in 1997 did not fully compensate her 
for the financial loss she will suffer once she takes her pension benefits.
ReAssure did not uphold Mrs As complaint. ReAssure said that after investigating the 
complaint it was satisfied that Mrs A policy was reviewed in line with the regulators Pension 
Review and that Mrs A was redressed in accordance with the guidelines. 
Mrs A was unhappy with ReAssures response, so she brought her complaint to our service 
to be considered. An investigator looked at Mrs As complaint. The investigator said that 
ReAssure had complied with the Pension Review and did not need to do anything further. 
Mrs A was unhappy with the outcome of the investigators view and asked for the complaint 
to be referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Barclays Life (now Reassure) accepted that the advice Mrs A received may have been 
unsuitable and so went straight to calculating whether a loss had occurred. The intention 
was that the Pension Review would compensate Mrs A for the losses she would later 
experience when she came to retire. 
The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determine things like future 
investment returns. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. But I'm afraid this doesn't mean ReAssure must redo the calculation. 
Under the terms of the Pensions Review, Barclays Life was only required to conduct the 
review once, using the standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. 
This is because the assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the 
time to assess the future loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw a line 
under any pension mis-selling and would put things right at the time. Once a business 
carried out a pension review on a policy, they werent required to review it again. 
At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do much of the review and this 
was the case here as an agency conducted the loss assessment for Barclays 
Life. Businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external quality 
checks. And its clear from the review process, that every effort was made to attain all the 
relevant information about Mrs As pension arrangements to produce a fair calculation.
I appreciate Mrs As frustration, that now over two decades later, her pension fund hasn't 
produced the values expected. Unfortunately, as previously explained the Pension Review 
was a one-off exercise. To do these review calculations at a much later date, has significant 
drawbacks, as firms may no longer have existed at that point. And so for the most part, 
reviews were carried out there and then as instructed by the regulator.
Mrs A has also made reference to the Pension Protection Fund and decisions on other 
cases where awards have been made. She feels she is not being treated fairly and cannot 
understand why her situation is different. However, the Pension Protection Fund she refers 
to isnt relevant to her situation or pension arrangements. The Pension Protection Fund 
relates to where the particular employer has insufficient assets to cover the funds it needs to 
pay. There is no such issue with the pension Mrs A has.
And in reference to other cases shes looked at on our website, again the situation in those 
differ to this complaint and the other linked cases Mrs A has brought to this service.
I am sorry to hear of the position Mrs A finds herself in because of the advice she received to 
transfer her OPS. But as the transfer has been reviewed as it was required to by the 
regulators at the time, I wont be asking ReAssure to look at it again.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint and make no award.
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman