DRN-3635872
The complaint
Mr G complains that two cars he had acquired via contract hire agreements with Motability 
Operations Limited (MO) werent of satisfactory quality. He says he should be entitled to 
reject them, be refunded for his monthly payments and deposits and receive compensation.
What happened
Mr G acquired two cars via contract hire agreements with MO. Car 1 was acquired in 
December 2019 via a three-year contract hire agreement. Mr G paid an advance payment of 
£1,499 under the agreement.
In September 2020 Mr G contacted MO and said that Car 1 had broken down and it referred 
him to a roadside assistance company. Repairs were carried out on the undertray, wheel 
arch and bumper valence.
In February 2021 Mr G complained to MO that there was damage to Car 1s wheel due to 
the previous repairs to the undertray. He also said the petrol cap was sticking and there 
were issues with the gearbox.
The car was inspected by the dealership and they said they couldnt find any fault with the 
gearbox though they did carry out a repair to the fuel flap. However, although the dealership 
agreed that the damage to the wheel arch liner was due to the condition of the bumper, they 
disagreed this was linked to their earlier repairs. They said it was due to the bumper having 
been damaged after they had repaired it. The dealership recommended the car was taken to 
a body-shop.
Mr G complained to MO that the issue with the wheel arch was due to the earlier repair. MO 
authorised the car to be taken to a body-shop and the repair was undertaken. 
In March 2021 Mr G contacted MO and said that he wanted to terminate the agreement as 
he had lost confidence with the vehicle due to the faults. MO responded that it would accept 
a cancellation of the agreement, when Mr G had been able to find a replacement vehicle and 
would also waive the £250 early termination administration fee. It also reimbursed Mr G 
£1,378.11 of his advance payment plus £80 for the cherished plate transfer fee making a 
total of £1,458.11.
In July 2021 MO sent Mr G its final response letter for his complaint as it considered the 
matter had been resolved. However, around two weeks later Mr G complained to MO that 
the car had broken down and been taken to a dealership. He reported that the car had been 
cutting out when stopping or slowing at junctions and traffic lights and had then broken 
down. He said a roadside assistance company had attended when it had broken down and 
carried out a regeneration which hadnt been unsuccessful and so it had been recovered to 
the garage. 
At the garage a DPF regeneration was carried out on the car which the garage said had 
fixed the fault and was fit to be returned. The garage said they thought the issue may have 
been due to poor quality fuel and there were no fault codes stored. However, Mr G disputed 
this and asked for the car to be checked.
MO arranged for the car to be independently inspected in August 2021. The engineer 
reported that following a test drive that Whilst the engine performance when the vehicle is in 
motion was found to be satisfactory, the engine idle performance was found to be uneven to 
a degree. Whilst the engineer acknowledges no fault codes are stored in the diagnostic 
system, it is possible the idle defect may be resultant of an irregularity in the combustion 
process caused by poor quality fuel and / or a defect of mechanical nature. The engineer 
recommended further investigation.
Mr G says from this point the garage didnt carry out any further repairs and he was 
pressured to take the car back as the garage said they couldnt find any fault. MO arranged 
for the car to be further independently inspected in November 2021.
The independent engineer said that after conducting a road test they were unable to 
replicate any of the customers concerns at the time of inspection. It is likely that any repairs 
carried out by the dealership have rectified any previous issue. 
MO offered for Mr G to take the car to another dealership for investigation but says it 
received no response from Mr G.
Mr G returned the car in January 2022 and received a further refund of £462.03. He entered 
in another contract hire agreement with MO for Car 2. The agreement was again for three-
years and Mr G paid an advance rental payment of £650 under the agreement.
A short time after receiving Car 2, Mr G complained to MO about the quality of the Car 2s 
tyres which he said were of a poor quality and made the car unsafe to drive. MO contacted 
the supplying dealer who said the car had been supplied with the factory standard tyres. MO 
advised Mr G to take the car back to the dealership, to a national tyre supplier or to call out a 
roadside assistance company to inspect the tyres.
Mr G made a new complaint to MO that the reason for returning Car 1 had been recorded as 
voluntary termination. MO didnt uphold this complaint and said that it was correct to treat the 
handing back of the car as a voluntary termination of the agreement. It said Mr G had been 
reimbursed more than he had paid as his advance rental for Car 1.
In regard to Car 2, in February 2022 Mr G contacted MO and asked to reject it. His request 
was declined by MO as the cars tyres hadnt been raised with the supplying dealer. 
Following further contact between MO and Mr G, MO said they would agree to Mr G 
voluntary terminating the contract and that it would waive the £250 administration fee. MO 
also said it would return a pro-rata refund of the £650 paid by Mr G as the advance payment.
Mr G was unhappy at MOs responses to his complaints and brought the matters to this 
service. Our Investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. He said he 
thought MO had acted fairly.
Our investigator said that in regard of Car 1, it wasnt disputed that there had been some 
faults and that some repair work had been undertaken. But in November 2021 no faults had 
been found with the car. He said that in light of that, MO had acted reasonably to treat the 
agreement as voluntary terminated. Our investigator said he thought the reimbursements 
made to Mr G had been fair and he wouldnt ask MO to do more.
In regard to Car 2, our investigator said there was no evidence of any fault with the car. He 
said the resolution offered by MO had been fair.Mr G disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that Car 1 hadnt been repaired 
and he should be able to reject it under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. He also said he 
hadnt been provided with a suitable courtesy car while this car was at the garage.
Mr G also disagreed that he wasnt entitled to reject Car 2 and said it was MOs 
responsibility to collect the car and carry out any necessary diagnostics. He said it was MO 
who had declined to do this.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I must decide what I think is the most likely thing 
to have happened.
As the contract hire agreements entered into by Mr G are regulated consumer credit 
agreements this service is able to consider complaints relating to them. MO is also the 
supplier of the goods under these types of agreements and is responsible for complaints 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the cars were both new and so the expectation would be that they would be fault free 
at the point they were supplied to Mr G. Mr G says that Car 1 developed faults that werent 
repaired and that Car 2 was supplied with defective or substandard tyres so wasnt fit for 
purpose. He says hes entitled to reject them and be reimbursed the money he had spent on 
the agreements.
Car 1
The car was supplied to Mr G in December 2019. Ive seen that repairs were carried out in 
September 2020 to the cars undertray, wheel arch and bumper. I dont know why these 
repairs were needed but looking at the length of time Mr G had had the car I think its 
reasonable to say these werent issues that had been present or developing when the car 
had been first acquired by Mr G.
Ive also seen that these issues were repaired, though Mr G said that the repair to bumper 
later resulted in damage to the wheel arch (this was disputed by the garage). I wouldnt have 
expected MO to do more than it had in respect of those faults at that time.
The car required further repairs in February 2021 to its fuel flap and wheel arch. Mr G also raised an issue with the gearbox, but no fault could be found, and I havent seen that issues 
with the gearbox were raised later. However, the fuel flap was repaired, as was the wheel 
arch. Again, I think its reasonable to say that these werent faults that had been present or 
developing at the point of the cars supply to Mr G. Im also satisfied these were all repaired 
successfully. Ive seen that on top of the repairs, MO also reimbursed Mr G £1,458.11.
The next issue with the car arose in July 2021 when the car broke down and roadside 
assistance had to be called out. A DPF regeneration was carried out but didnt clear the 
problem and the car was recovered to a garage. Ive seen that the garage carried out a 
regeneration themselves which they said had fixed the issue, though Mr G disputed that. 
The garage said they thought the issue may have been caused by poor fuel.
I accept that the first inspection by the independent engineer found that the car had an issue 
with the engine. They reported that the idle performance was found to be uneven to a 
degree although there were no fault codes found stored and the engine performed well 
when in motion. The engineer had recommended further investigation be undertaken. 
I appreciate Mr Gs concern that the garage doesnt appear to have carried out any further 
repairs to the car. But looking at the second inspection carried out by the independent 
engineer, Ive seen that no fault was later found, and they concluded that the repairs carried 
out by the garage had fixed the issue. I accept the findings of the second inspection that 
there was no fault with the way the car ran when looked at in November 2021. I think that 
although the car had an issue with idling when first inspected this was resolved and its likely 
this was due to the regeneration carried out by the garage.
Looking at the length of time Mr G had had the car before the repairs in July 2021 Im 
satisfied that the issue with the idling engine wasnt present or developing at the point of its 
supply to Mr G. And taking into account that the car was repaired by a regeneration being 
carried out, I think its reasonable to say this issue had arisen through use. I think the repair 
was successful and as the car wasnt inherently faulty then I dont agree with Mr G that he 
was entitled to reject it.
I think on the evidence that Ive seen that MO has acted fairly in treating the agreement as 
voluntarily terminated, it had also previously reimbursed Mr G £1,458.11. MO had also 
waived the £250 admin fee that is chargeable when terminating an agreement. So, Im not 
going to ask MO to do more than it has in regard to Car 1.
Car 2
Mr G says this car was supplied with substandard tyres which affect the way it drives. He 
says he hasnt used the car because of this, and it isnt fit for purpose. Mr G also says that 
he tried to exercise his right to short-term reject the car, but MO declined this. He says its for 
MO to collect the car and have it inspected not for him to arrange this.
However, for Mr G to reject the car there needs to be evidence of a fault. Ive seen that MO 
contacted the dealership and asked about the cars tyres and it was told they were factory 
standard. Ive seen it also outlined a number of options that Mr G could follow to have them 
investigated. While I accept this would involve some inconvenience to Mr G I think its 
suggestions were fair as this included calling out a roadside assistance company. I think Mr 
G could have done more than he has to obtain evidence that the tyres were defective. MO 
hasnt seen anything that would support Mr Gs assertion about the tyres. I dont think MO 
has acted unreasonably when it didnt arrange for the car to be collected from Mr G. I 
wouldnt expect it to further investigate unless there was some evidence of a fault being 
present.As there is no evidence the car has a fault, I cant say that MO acted unfairly in declining Mr 
Gs request to reject Car 2. Ive seen it has offered to agree Mr G voluntarily terminates the 
agreement with a pro-rata refund of his advance payment. It will again waive the £250 admin 
fee. I think this is a fair solution and I wouldnt ask MO to do more.
Courtesy Car 
Mr G says the courtesy car he was supplied with when his car was unavailable wasnt 
suitable. But Ive seen that MO doesnt have an obligation to provide a courtesy car to 
customers. In the Handbook, which was provided to Mr G at the time he entered into his
first agreement, it says that If your car is deemed undriveable, a replacement car may be
available from the RAC.. Replacement cars are subject to availability and the terms and 
conditions of the supplying rental firm and your lease with us.
Here MO did agree to provide a hire car but I think its reasonable that there is no guarantee 
that the hire car with be suitable for all customers needs and MO cant guarantee a like-for-
like vehicle is given. I think MO did try to assist Mr G and keep him mobile. I dont think it 
acted unfairly and I am not going to ask MO to reimburse any further money to Mr G.
Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr G, Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman