DRN-1203645
 
The complaint
Mrs D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in one of the bank's branches in 
2002 at the same time as Mrs D applied for the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint because:
I think Halifax made Mrs D aware the PPI was optional, and she chose to take it out 
although I can understand she might not remember this as the sale was so long ago. 
I say this as Mrs D indicated that she wanted the cover on the application form she 
signed - the box to select PPI was completed. 
 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs D so it needed to check if it was right for her 
given her circumstances at the time. I haven't seen anything to show it was 
unsuitable. Her representative argues Mrs D was entitled to six months full pay and 
six months half pay if she was sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
her work benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 months' 
redundancy cover. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs D if she was 
sick or lost her job.
 
I agree its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But Mrs D chose to take out the policy and so appears to 
have wanted this type of cover. Mrs D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations, and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I 
think it unlikely Mrs D wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs D back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. And I understand Halifax has already paid 
this to Mrs D.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman