DRN-4245746
The complaint
Miss B complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (EL) has been 
unfairly requesting additional information from her doctor before it will decide whether to 
meet her claim.
What happened
Miss B has an insurance policy with EL that provides her with some personal accident cover. 
In particular the policy will pay her a cash sum if shes permanently and totally disabled.
Miss B was injured in an accident and made a claim for total and permanent disablement. EL 
said it wouldnt pay the claim and Miss B complained to this service about that decision. Her 
complaint wasnt upheld, although Miss B was told that if new medical information came to 
light EL would be expected to re-assess her claim.
Miss Bs doctor did further tests and submitted his revised opinion that Miss B met the 
required parameters for total permanent disability. EL asked Miss Bs doctor some follow up 
questions, and Miss B objects to this, particularly as she hasnt been copied in to all the 
correspondence between EL and the doctor.
EL said it was entitled to ask follow up questions and that as it was seeking an expert 
medical opinion it didnt need Miss B to be involved at this point.
Miss B doesnt think thats fair so she asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator concluded that there was nothing preventing EL from asking for further or 
clarified information in order to assess the claim fully. She thought that was a fair thing for it 
to do.
Miss B disagrees, saying that as her doctor has answered yes to three key questions about 
her health EL shouldnt ask for more information, and should instead meet her claim.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I must explain that this decision is only about whether EL can fairly ask follow on 
questions of her doctor once hes submitted his opinion on her health. It isnt about whether 
EL has fairly decided to not meet her claim followings its receipt of new medical evidence, 
as, when Miss B complained to us, that hadnt been decided by EL. At the time of writing I 
dont know if EL has told Miss B whether it intends to meet her claim or not. When it does, 
Miss B can make a further complaint to EL if shes unhappy about the result. If, after EL 
responds to that complaint, Miss B remains unhappy, she may be able to bring a fresh 
complaint to this service.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss B says that as her doctor responded to ELs questions about her health to confirm his 
belief that she is totally and permanently disabled, EL cant fairly ask any further questions. I 
dont agree with that. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and theres nothing in 
these that suggests EL is limited in any way in the number of questions it can ask in order to 
fully assess a claim. Its common for follow up questions to be asked during the course of an 
assessment wherever an insurer thinks something needs clarifying or expanding upon. In 
this particular case, Miss Bs doctor has issued a revised opinion on her health which is 
almost opposite to his previous report  so its not surprising EL might have some follow up 
questions. 
Miss B says also that shes been excluded from being part of the response from her doctor 
because of the timescales set by EL. I dont know if thats the case or not, but even if it is, 
that shouldnt disadvantage her. The insurer confirmed it was seeking further information 
following an expert medical opinion. It can only get that directly from Miss Bs doctor
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman