DRN-3940490
The complaint
Mr W has complained about what he considers to be the poor level of service hes received 
from Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL), in particular with regard to the time 
its taken to send quarterly and annual reports, it not following the required complaints 
procedure, and incorrect information contained within the reports.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
On 26 April 2021, Mr W complained that FASL didnt send his annual benefit statement for 
the year ending 31 March 2020 in a timely fashion.
Mr W acknowledged that hed received online correspondence in May 2020, but the 
statement of charges and investment performance hadnt been issued.
On 13 May 2021, Mr W added that FASL hadnt followed its complaints procedure of 
acknowledgement within five days, with a further update within four weeks. Mr W further said 
that the signatory who appeared on the FASLs correspondence had left the company 
several months prior to him receiving the updates.
Mr W commented that the failure to comply with the published procedure further added to his 
increasing worry and concern that hed had over the previous 18 months about FASLs 
ability to safely manage his investments which had taken a working lifetime to accrue.
On 18 June 2021, Mr W referenced a secure message sent by FASL on 4 May 2021. This 
explained that it would be unable to respond in full to his complaint by 26 May 2021 and a 
further message had been sent on 3 June 2021 in which FASL hoped that it clarified the 
matter and said that it looked forward to continuing the strong business relationship that had 
developed through its past dealings with Mr W. Mr W questioned the validity of this 
statement.
On 25 July 2021, Mr W complained about receiving Quarterly Portfolio Reports late and said 
that FASLs website highlighted Quarterly Portfolio Reports as a key benefit of its Wealth 
Service but it appeared unable to produce these in a timely fashion - or at all without
prompting from its customers.
Mr W added that FASL hadnt produced these unprompted since the transfer of his account, 
which it recognised it had failed to do in the time period its website advised, and he 
highlighted that rather than send these on the 1st day of each new quarter, or even in the 
first week of each quarter, the previous two were received on 12 March 2021 (following a 
phone conversation on 3 March 2021) and on 13 May 2021 (following a phone conversation 
on 12 May 2021).
FASL messaged Mr W on 27 September 2021 in response to his complaints. FASL 
addressed the issue of the support hed received from his Relationship Manager, the amount 
of time it had taken to send his quarterly portfolio reports and the annual benefit statement 
from 2020, along with its complaint handling.
FASL accepted that it had made some errors and offered Mr W £100.
Mr W replied on 20 February 2022, and apologised that hed been unable to reply to FASLs 
letter earlier as hed been away visiting family. But Mr W said that FASL hadnt considered 
all the issues that hed raised. 
Further, Mr W said that the Quarterly Report to 31 March 2020 showed his Pension Savings 
Cash at 1 January 2020 as '-£5,700.64', which he said was incorrect.
FASL sent two replies on 20 June 2022, with the latter acknowledging the cash value error 
and offering Mr £75, comprised of £50 for not recognising that error in the statement in the 
first place, and £25 for not reaching the right conclusions in the other letter issued on the 
same date.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service, and having considered the matter, the 
investigator concluded that it shouldnt be upheld, saying the following in summary:
The available evidence didnt support the position that Mr W had suffered an actual 
financial loss due to the complaint issues hed raised.
He noted that FASL had issued three letters addressing Mr Ws concerns, one in 
September 2021 and then two more on the same date in June 2022, in which it had 
acknowledged the service and administration errors.
The online information available for the quarterly and annual statements was correct, 
albeit without charges and performance information. Only Mr W was in a position to 
decide how important that information was to the ongoing administration of his 
pension plan.
It was inevitable that there would be some delay in Mr W receiving his statements by 
post, and FASL would be processing many of these quarterly and annually.
The £75 offered by FASL in respect of the trouble and inconvenience caused to Mr 
W was similar to the type of award this service would make in similar circumstances.
Mr W replied, saying the following in summary:
FASL had provided no Wealth Service or Relationship Manager exclusive benefits, 
extra investment support or guidance to him from March 2021  but this hadnt been 
addressed in the investigators assessment.
He estimated that hed spent some 48 hours on calls and correspondence with 
FASL, and on submitting his complaint to this service, and a similar amount of time 
checking reports and sourcing up to date information to enable him to review his 
investments  and decide on changes.
Given the hourly rate for very basic cleaning services in his area, and the hourly rate 
hed spent on inexpert garden services, he considered that around 100 hours of his 
time should be valued as at least £1,500.He and is wife had transferred their pension savings to FASL on the understanding 
that it would provide the Wealth Service and up to date quarterly reporting  along 
with a Relationship Manager who would review their portfolios and offer guidance on 
investment strategies. 
They envisaged being able to spend perhaps part of one day at the beginning of 
each quarter on up to date reports to review their portfolios and to have an annual 
review with a Relationship Manager. Along with access to Wealth Service personnel, 
theyd believed that this would have enabled timely and informed decision making 
and improved investment performance.
In the absence of these services, for which they had paid FASL, and allowing for an 
annual 1% reduction in his portfolio performance in the post-Covid crash 
environment, Mr W estimated an additional loss on his £435,000 portfolio of £4,350.
He therefore couldnt agree that the £175 offered by FASL was fair or reasonable.
The investigator acknowledged Mr Ws further points, and then enquired further of FASL as 
to the services which Mr W ought to have received.
He then responded to Mr W as follows:
With regard to the £175 offered by FASL, it was often difficult to put a monetary 
figure on a set of circumstances  and it wasnt a scientific assessment  but the 
investigator remained of the view that it was reasonable in the circumstances.
As to Mr Ws comments about the service he should have received, the investigator 
quoted from the Wealth Service brochure and concluded that FASL would have 
provided him with the services contained therein had Mr W requested this, but it 
wasnt the role of a Relationship Manager to provide investment advice, nor could he 
see that the service included an annual review. This would have been the role of a 
FASL financial adviser.
The Wealth Service did include the issuing of quarterly reports, but the investigator 
felt that hed already addressed this in his initial assessment. Hed reviewed a 
sample quarterly report and acknowledged Mr Ws comments relating to the 
usefulness of the content, but he also noted that Mr W had full online access and 
could have tracked his investments. If he had concerns, these could have been 
referred to the Wealth Management Team. 
He also wasnt persuaded that any perceived shortfall in the service Mr W had 
received had led to an investment loss of £4,350.
He further acknowledged what Mr W had said about the time hed spent complaining 
to FASL, but this service didnt make specific awards for the time taken to pursue a 
complaint  rather, we would consider the overall impact that the issue/s have had on 
the individual. And the investigator remained of the view that £175 was similar to the 
kind of award which this service would make in similar circumstances.
Mr W responded, saying the following in summary:
His cumulative issues of concern, as previously set out, resulted in him losing 
confidence in the FASL service for which hed paid a premium. This in turn had resulted in him delaying investment decisions, spending additional time with 
investment research and complaints, leading to reduced investment performance and 
increased stress and worry.
As hed had over £250,000 invested with FASL, as part of the additional benefits for 
which he was paying, he should have had access (as set out on FASLs website) to 
the personal support needed to review your portfolio and offer guidance on your 
investment strategies, and help you arrange a meeting with your dedicated 
Relationship Manager.
Further, the quarterly reports now said that We like to catch up once a year and 
once a year you can arrange to discuss your portfolio.
It wasnt possible for him to be properly informed as to his investments as the reports 
were sent late. It shouldnt be the responsibility of customers who have paid for the 
enhanced service to download quarterly report information to a spreadsheet to make 
decisions promptly at the beginning of each quarter.
Mr W also said that he didnt understand why FASL didnt send a correct report when 
errors had been identified within the one which it had initially sent  with an apology 
highlighting the correction.
He further said that he didnt understand why a user who had paid for the enhanced 
service with a Relationship Manager to provide strategic guidance and a wealth team 
to promptly resolve day to day technical issues, would fail to receive helpful advice 
when he called it in January 2021. Hed had no access to the Relationship manager 
or to Wealth Team assistance until June 2022, he added.
Mr W therefore requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for review, and 
hoped that, along with awarding fair compensation in respect of FASLs failure to provide 
him with the service for which hed paid, an ombudsman would encourage FASL to improve 
the service levels to all Wealth Management users as per its website description.
As requested, therefore, the complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
similar reasons.
I acknowledge that Mr W might have been frustrated with the delays in receiving his 
quarterly investment reports, but I dont think what the investigator has said about the 
reasons as to why there might be a delay in issuing these after the end of each quarter is 
unreasonable. And I do also note that Mr W would have been able to access his portfolio 
online, and so ought reasonably to have been able to check his investment position if he 
needed that information sooner that was available through the hard copy investment 
reports.
As such, I think it ought to have been possible for Mr W to make investment decisions on the 
basis of the information available to him, and if he had any questions about a particular 
aspect of his portfolio or the value attributed to it, it would have been open to him to approach FASL about this (see below). As such, I dont think that it would be fair or 
reasonable to make an award in respect of perceived investment losses, especially given the 
lack of available evidence which would support Mr Ws view on the additional 1% pa 
investment growth which he considers his portfolio would otherwise have attained.
This then brings me to Mr Ws comments about the actual services he should have been 
receiving, but my view is that a fair and reasonable interpretation of the way that these were 
described was that these were reactive offerings rather proactive services which would be 
offered or pushed to Mr W. So, for example, if Mr W wanted guidance on investment 
strategies, as Ive said above, he could have approached FASL for this - as it appears he did 
in January 2021. I understand that Mr W considers that he didnt receive a satisfactory 
answer in response to his queries, but as explained by FASL and the investigator, the 
Relationship Manager was a non-advisory role and so they werent in a position to provide 
regulated investment advice. And I cant see that a regulated advisory service was 
automatically included within the Wealth Management Service or should have been provided 
by the Relationship Manager.
And the same principle applies for any review of Mr Ws portfolio or a meeting if required. I 
dont think the evidence supports the position that FASL had committed to providing Mr W 
with an annual review, but it was open to Mr W to request a meeting if he wished. 
I do also acknowledge Mr Ws point about FASL not having sent a corrected version of the 
report once the error relating to the cash account had been brought to its attention, and I 
agree that it would be useful for FASL to note this for any future such incidences, but I dont 
think this aspect is sufficient for me to fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint  in the 
sense that I might conclude that FASL should offer Mr W more than the £175 it already has 
in respect of errors made. FASL confirmed that it was an error, and as the error was spotted 
and raised by Mr W, it seems unlikely to me that he would have been reliant on that incorrect 
information when making investment decisions.
Mr W has also raised the matter of the time hes spent in making and pursuing his 
complaints, and whilst I understand his frustrations at the number of hours hes dedicated to 
this, I would endorse the investigators comments around this. It might reasonably be 
expected that it would in any case take some time and effort to pursue a complaint. And as a 
service, we dont tend to calculate awards in respect of inconvenience or the trouble caused 
to complainants in terms of hourly rates. 
Given some of the errors made here, if no offer of compensation had been forthcoming from 
FASL, I think the complaint would fairly and reasonably be upheld on the basis of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr W. But FASL has tried to answer Mr Ws complaint, albeit I note 
with some regrettable further complications, not least the matter of the author of complaint 
correspondence having left FASLs employment before it was issued, and some delays in 
dealing with Mr Ws concerns.
But as I agree with the investigators conclusion that theres no demonstrable financial loss 
here, I need to consider an appropriate amount which should be payable in respect of the 
inconvenience, and as Mr W says, worry, caused to him. This this has to be fair, reasonable, 
and proportionate, however. And I think much of Mr Ws concern could perhaps have been 
managed by him capitalising on the services offered by FASL  so as Ive said above, the 
online investment platform, the Relationship Manager and/or other dedicated team which 
could answer day to day queries or run through the quarterly reports with him.  
Overall, and taking into account other awards this service might make in similar situations, I 
think the offer made by FASL is appropriate in the circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman