DRN-2379722
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage and its further advance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998, and increased their cover 
when they took out a further advance in 2000. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr W in case he was off work sick 
or lost his job.
I sent Mr and Mrs W and Lloyds a provisional decision on 10 November 2020, to explain 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application offered them the choice to take PPI or turn it down. 
The option to take PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr and 
Mrs W signed the form to confirm their choices. They also signed and submitted an 
application specifically for PPI. And they set up a direct debit to pay for the policy, separately 
to paying for the mortgage  the PPI was not part and parcel of the mortgage. The bank then 
sent Mr and Mrs W a letter confirming their choice and reminding them they could cancel the 
policy if they changed their mind.
In 2000, Mr and Mrs W applied for a further advance, and signed and submitted an 
application specifically for PPI so that they could increase their cover. They signed a new 
direct debit mandate for the PPI  again, separately to the lending  and the bank again 
wrote to them to confirm their choice.
I understand that Mr W feels he was too young and nave at the time. But he was in his mid-
30s and late-30s in each respective sale, so I think he was old enough to decide what 
insurance he wanted. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Mr and Mrs W were put 
under any unfair pressure or misled into buying PPI. And Ive not seen any wider problems 
with Lloyds sales process from the time. From what I can see, at each sale Lloyds offered 
Mr and Mrs W a choice about buying PPI, and on both occasions they chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time of each sale, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr W was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. While he had benefits through work, the 
PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered him more comprehensive cover. I also 
understand he had life and critical illness policies, but those covered quite different situations 
to the PPI so Im afraid they arent relevant here.
Mr and Mrs W may also have had some savings, though understandably they dont still have 
any evidence of this. Theres no mention of these savings in their financial documents from 
the time. It also sounds like the savings had a significant notice period before being 
accessible, which wouldnt have been very suitable if they got in trouble with their mortgage. 
In any case, the PPI meant Mr and Mrs W could effectively protect their savings and use 
them for other things, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. 
And its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment, so there was no guarantee that Mr W would have the same benefits or savings 
available in the many years to come. Ultimately, if Mr and Mrs W fell behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful 
for them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs W chose to take out PPI on both 
occasions, which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr W 
wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been 
useful for Mr and Mrs W in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced 
given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Mr and Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that 
better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
25 November 2020. Lloyds didnt add anything further. Mr W replied, which Ill talk about 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr W for being open and candid in his reply. I wont go through what he said on a 
point by point basis, only as its not necessary to do so  most of his letter was reiterating 
what hed previously said about why he felt the policy was mis-sold, and those issues were 
dealt with in the provisional decision. But I hope I can reassure him that I read his response 
in detail and carefully considered what he said. Ill summarise the key points.
Mr W reiterated that he wasnt given a fair choice about buying PPI. But as I explained 
before, there is substantial evidence from the time illustrating that Mr and Mrs W were given 
a clear choice, and chose PPI on each occasion. And Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Lloyds sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr or Mrs W were 
misled into having PPI here.
Mr W said he and Mrs W werent told they could cancel the policy. Their welcome letter did 
tell them they could change their mind and cancel, and this was also in the policy 
documentation. And Ive not seen anything which wouldve given the impression that they 
couldnt cancel.Mr W reiterated that he was nave, though he added it wasnt just because he was young but 
because he didnt work in finance. As I said before, he was old enough to choose his 
insurance. And this type of insurance could broadly be sold to anyone who was eligible, not 
just people in finance. There was absolutely no requirement for someone to work in finance 
to buy this policy, and it was perfectly legitimate for Lloyds to sell it to Mr and Mrs W. And as 
I explained in my provisional decision, even if I accept that Lloyds could have explained 
things better, I dont think that better information was likely to have put Mr and Mrs W off 
taking out the cover.
Mr W said hed had other insurance policies mis-sold to him. I understand why he thought to 
raise this. But we look at each situation on its own merits. Even if he had other, different 
policies mis-sold to him, I have not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
Similarly, Mr W says he didnt take out PPI after this. It may well be that he changed his 
mind about PPI later on. But I can see that he did take it out here, after being offered a 
choice about whether hed like it or not.
Mr W reiterated that he had existing cover, such as sick pay, savings, and insurance. But 
I already explained in my provisional decision why I thought the PPI wouldve been useful for 
Mr and Mrs W in their situation. This included explaining that their other insurance policies 
were not replacements for PPI or like-for-like cover and covered very different things, so Im 
afraid they were not relevant here.
Lastly, Mr W mentioned concerns about the commission on the policy. There are rules about 
commission on PPI policies. But as our adjudicator explained, those rules only apply to 
agreements that were either taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or were still running on 6 April 
2008. As this agreement ended long before then, Im afraid those considerations arent 
relevant here.
So having reconsidered everything, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I do 
not think this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman