DRN-3789401
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr C complain about investment advice they received from Thornton & Baines 
Financial Advisers Limited to move their investments into cash in March 2020 and the delay 
in reinvesting the funds.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr C were clients of T&B. In March 2020 T&B contacted them and advised them 
to move their holdings into cash due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the markets. 
Mrs B and Mr C accepted the advice and their investments were moved into cash until Mrs 
Bs were reinvested in July 2020. Mr Cs investments were reinvested in November 2020.
Mrs B and Mr C complained to T&B in early 2021 and asked why T&B had waited until 
March rather than late February, to advise them to move to cash. The situation had 
improved while they were out of the market and the advice theyd received meant that theyd 
only avoided three days losses. T&B looked into the concerns but didnt uphold the 
complaint. They thought the advice to move to cash and the time taken to reinvest wasnt 
unsuitable given the unprecedented market conditions at the time.
Mrs B and Mr C didnt accept T&Bs findings and asked us to help. The complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt uphold it. He noted that Mrs B and Mr C 
were classified as low risk investors and thought that the advice to move into cash and also 
to stay out of the market wasnt unreasonable given the market conditions at the time and 
their attitude to risk (ATR).
Mrs B and Mr C didnt accept his findings and said, in summary:
The investigators response didnt address their complaint. It missed the issue 
applying to them which wasnt the timing of sales and purchases. The issue was that 
the advice to sell in the first place was fundamentally flawed. Their complaint was 
essentially about poor advice that had cost them money. 
T&B had made a judgement on how markets would respond to Covid-19 but their 
judgement flew in the face of all evidence. Selling investments when prices were 
falling was the action of an inexperienced investor, and not that of a financial adviser.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
Mrs B and Mr C. I intend no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure them that Ive read 
and considered all their submissions. 
An adviser has certain obligations under the regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 
rules and Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Some of the key rules Ive considered in 
determining if the advice was suitable are:
COBS 9.2.1: which says, in summary, that a firm must ensure that a recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client. And when doing so, they must obtain sufficient 
information about the client's knowledge, experience, financial situation and objectives
COBS 9.2.2: which broadly says, among other things, that a firm needs to get enough 
information from the customer to be able to make sure the recommendation meets their 
objectives, theyre able to bear any related investment risk and they understand the risks 
involved. 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs B and Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the initial advice 
in 2017 to see if the recommendation was suitable for them. At the time they were aged 59 
and 66. They were self employed and had a joint monthly income of £750 and outgoings of 
£600. They were looking to move their existing personal pension plans and an ISA. Their 
objectives were to invest cautiously and ethically and to have a facility for drawdown. 
They were recorded as having a low ATR which was defined as As your attitude to 
accepting risk is 'low', you are probably concerned about the possibility of losing money, but 
do not want to completely ignore the possibility of making higher returns. You probably want 
greater returns than are offered by bank accounts and other low-risk investments. As a 
result, you are prepared to accept some ups and downs. This means that you could make a 
loss on the amount you invest, particularly in the short term.
T&B advised them to invest in a range of funds in line with their objectives and ATR. From 
what Ive seen, the advice from T&B was suitable for Mrs B and Mr C at the time. They 
correctly assessed Mrs B and Mr Cs ATR and the spread of assets recommended was 
suitable for their objectives and capacity for loss.
They had another review in February 2020 which showed that their circumstances hadnt 
changed much. Their ATR was still the same, their annual disposable income was only 
£1,800 and they had cash reserves of £22,500. I think its important to keep their ATR and 
capacity for loss in mind when considering the advice from T&B in March 2020. Given the 
volatility seen in the market at the time, I dont think that the advice to move into cash was an 
unreasonable recommendation. The Covid-19 pandemic was unprecedented, and at the 
time there was very little information around how long it would last. Therefore, I think moving 
into cash was a reasonable step to help prevent any further losses, particularly for low risk 
investors such as Mrs B and Mr C who would struggle to make up any large losses. 
However, the risk of this strategy was that they would miss out on any upturn in the market if 
they crystallised their losses. But from what Ive seen, T&B made them aware of this 
possibility. Their advisers email of 13 March 2020 said The potential downside could be that 
the market bounces back while you are in cash. The potential upside is that your money 
would be safer while in cash if the markets continue to fall. I appreciate that Mrs B and Mr C 
would have earned more if theyd remained invested, but we only know this now with the 
benefit of hindsight. However, I would expect T&B to continue to monitor the situation and not keep Mrs B and Mr 
C out of the market indefinitely. From what Ive seen, T&B kept them updated over the next 
few months. The adviser had a review meeting with them in July 2020 and as Mrs B and Mr 
C wanted to attempt to recover some of their losses, a decision was made to re-invest Mrs 
Bs portfolio back into the markets. This meant that their entire portfolio wouldnt be exposed 
to market risk but gave them the potential to make back some losses.
There was a further update provided in November 2020, T&B sent an email to their clients 
which said Since being in the market is typically the right thing to do, we must return sooner 
rather than later. As investments are for the long term and as we had to move you into cash 
to benefit from the Managed Portfolio Service scheme, it made perfect sense to do so in 
March of this year, given the effects on markets the pandemic was having at the time, and 
has been having since. However, we believe now is the time to re -enter the market, but still 
with a sense of caution.
After receiving this email Mr C made the decision to re-invest all of his funds back into 
market. Having considered everything, I think T&B provided Mrs B and Mr C with enough 
information to understand their rationale and what they thought the likely future performance 
would be. They also invited contact if Mrs B and Mr C had any questions about the proposed 
strategy. So, taking everything into account, I dont think I can fairly say that they werent in 
an informed position or were treated unfairly and it therefore follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman