DRN-2332721
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has not dealt properly with a data subject access 
request (DSAR) he made in March 2019. In particular he complains that Lloyds has failed to 
disclose specific documents that he believes it has.
(I know Mr R has made a separate complaint about Lloyds behaviour in respect of other 
matters, but I will not comment on those matters in this decision.)
What happened
During the 1980s and 1990s Mr R had a banking relationship with Lloyds. That relationship 
broke down, and ultimately Lloyds and Mr R reached a financial settlement in 2000. 
In March 2019 Mr R asked Lloyds to provide him with copies of the personal data it held 
about him. Mr R expected that personal data to include evidence related to the earlier 
dispute. Lloyds responded to his request, but it did not send everything Mr R expected. It 
also said it was not prepared to send Mr R the personal information of a third party (Mr Rs 
former wife).
Mr R and Lloyds exchanged further correspondence over the next year or so  with some 
delays on Lloyds part. In August 2020, Lloyds told Mr R:
Our DSAR team have reviewed your recent correspondence  and the documents 
that were disclosed to you last year as well as the searches that were conducted at 
the time. I can confirm that as your accounts had been closed for over 10 years, the 
majority of documents had been destroyed in line with our document retention policy. 
This means that at the time of your DSAR all personal data available that was not 
subject to a legitimate exemption was disclosed to you.
However, Lloyds accepted that it had delayed handling Mr Rs DSAR request, and sent him 
a cheque for £70 to say sorry (£50 as an apology, and £20 to cover his postage costs).
Mr R was not satisfied with Lloyds response, and referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Rs complaint, but she did not uphold it. She said all 
the documentation Mr R had specifically requested would have been created more than 20 
years ago, and it wasnt unusual for documentation of that age to no longer be available. 
She thought Lloyds was right to refuse to send Mr R personal information relating to a third 
party. Finally, whilst she agreed Lloyds had caused delays, she thought the £70 Lloyds had 
already offered for delays and postage costs was appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr R remained unsatisfied, and so his complaint was referred to me. He believes it is 
obvious that Lloyds must have destroyed evidence in response to his DSAR request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. I am sorry to further disappoint Mr R, but there 
is very little I can add to what she has already said.
I acknowledge that a number of scandals have understandably dented Mr Rs faith in the UK 
banking system, but I have seen nothing to suggest that Lloyds destroyed any documents in 
response to Mr Rs subject access request. I consider Lloyds evidence on its data retention 
procedures to be plausible and persuasive. So I find it more likely than not that any relevant 
documents were destroyed many years ago. I therefore do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Like our investigator, I do accept that Lloyds took too long to respond to some of Mr Rs 
correspondence. But I think it has already done enough to apologise for that issue, and I do 
not require it to pay any further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman