DRN-2458356
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has registered a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database and he says he has been the victim of identity fraud.
What happened
Mr A says he found out about the marker when he tried to apply for a mortgage early in 
2020. He says that he didnt open an account at RBS in November 2015 and carry out any 
fraud. He left this country in October 2015 and didnt return until November 2018.
RBS says that it made checks to confirm Mr As identity when he opened the account. It has 
provided a copy of his passport, his leave to remain here as a student until 31 October 2018 
and a letter from the tax office confirming his tax details. The account was used fraudulently 
in February 2016 and it was closed and the CIFAS marker added. It doesnt accept that the 
account was opened by someone else.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He considered the 
documents provided by RBS and Mr A. The pictures in the photocopied documents from 
RBS werent clear enough to show whether they were or werent a likeness to Mr A. He had 
a genuine student visa that covered the period from 21 January 2015 to 7 October 2015.   
Mr A had provided a picture of a stamp he says was in his passport showing he returned 
overseas on 9 October 2015. Mr A says that as he has lost that passport he doesnt have 
any further pages of it. The application to RBS had a student visa between 28 October 2015 
and 31 October 2018. Mr A says he didnt return to this country until 1 November 2018 
having got married abroad on 21 May 2018 as shown in a marriage certificate. Mr A 
provided evidence he received leave to remain here on a five-year partner route from 1 
November 2018.  
Mr A hadnt shown that he didnt return to this country again before 1 November 2018. And 
the further student visa slotted neatly between the previous one and his leave to remain as a 
partner. The RBS account was used normally for a period with what seemed to be wages 
payments. And the costs of obtaining fake documents would have been high in relation to 
the scale of this fraud. He didnt think that Mr A had been the victim of identity theft and so 
he considered that the CIFAS marker was justified.
Mr A didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He provided videos of online 
screen shots of his tax returns which he said showed that he had no employment income 
after October 2015. He says this income started again in April 2018 when he was employed 
in this country but worked from abroad. Mr A says he wasnt employed until then while 
abroad and so has no paperwork and was living with family. He provided a bank statement 
for his overseas bank account covering the period between 1 February 2017 and 30 
November 2018 and showing he was using this from 4 August 2017. He said other accounts 
in his name at different businesses in this country and shown on his credit record were also 
opened at around the same time without his knowledge. He only had one genuine bank 
account here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and its up to Mr A and RBS to provide 
evidence and submissions. While Mr A has referred to us contacting the tax office and home 
office for information its fairly down to him to support what he says with evidence. And I 
consider he has had an ample opportunity to do so.
RBS appears to have copies of genuine documents which it verified in the normal way when 
the account was opened. Mr A says he left this country in October 2015 which must have 
been with a passport. So, his position seems to be that the documents RBS had werent 
genuine ones. As our investigator says it isnt impossible to obtain forged documents but the 
expense and trouble of doing so would seem likely to be prohibitive here. And any person 
doing so would have had to know about Mr As immigration and work history to create a new 
student visa consistent with the previous one and a document from the tax office consistent 
with his past employment.
Mr A says he worked for a couple of weeks in September and October 2015 before he left. 
Thats not inconsistent with the date he finished a course that year and what hes shown us 
about his tax records. But the new visa was also for him to be a student from 28 October 
2015, so he mightnt have again been working. And I cant say from the RBS statement what 
the payments through BACS were. But the point remains that the account was used 
normally for a period before the fraudulent payment was received.
Even if I was to accept that Mr A was out of this country for the periods when his overseas 
account was being used  for what it seems were online payments - that still doesnt cover 
what he was doing when the RBS account was opened. 
Im afraid Mr A has simply not been able to show what he was then doing and that he was 
not in this country. The documents from RBS are entirely consistent with him being able to 
return. And so, I think that its most likely this account was opened with his knowledge and 
that he had control over how it was used. I dont find on balance he was the victim of identity 
fraud.
That being the case then as the account had been shown to be used for fraudulent purposes 
I find that RBS has met the high bar for a CIFAS marker. This essentially means that RBS 
has shown it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been 
committed or attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the 
authorities. 
I appreciate Mr A will be very disappointed with my conclusions.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman