DRN-3926861
The complaint
Mr D complains Fairmead Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I've 
summarised what's happened.
Mr D has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Fairmead 
Insurance Limited.
On 14 May 2022, Mr D contacted Fairmead to report an ingress of water in an 
upstairs bedroom which he said had been caused by roof tiles and flashings 
being dislodged during a recent storm.
Two days later, Fairmead informed him the claim had been set up. 
Within the same week, the repairs to Mr D's roof had been completed by his 
own roofing contractor.
Mr D sought to claim the cost of the repair works under his policy, but Fairmead 
said there wasn't a storm and so, there wasn't an insured peril. It added that as   
Mr D doesn't have accidental damage with his policy, the internal damage wasn't 
covered either.
Unhappy, Mr D brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it 
and was satisfied there was a storm in the weeks prior to Mr D noticing the 
damage. She said Fairmead therefore, needed to cover the costs Mr D had 
incurred.
She was satisfied the £100 compensation Fairmead offered Mr D in relation to 
the distress he experienced whilst it reached the outcome of his claim was fair.
Fairmead disagreed. It said it hadn't been able to review the damage prior to the 
repair works and it hadnt been provided with an expert report confirming the 
damage was solely attributable to a storm. So, it asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a decision.
Fairmead was provided with the evidence Mr D had shared with this Service - 
which included photographs of his roof and his roofing contractor's invoice.
Fairmead responded to say there wasn't a storm in the relevant period, but in 
any event, the evidence shows the pointing had failed, that there were cracks 
in the chimney, and the fascia board had rotted. It said this wouldn't have 
been caused from a one-off storm and instead that strong winds would have 
only highlighted existing maintenance problems.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said Fairmead didnt need to cover the cost of the 
repairs to Mr Ds roof as I wasnt persuaded a storm was the sole cause of the damage. 
Instead, I considered it more likely the storm had merely highlighted pre-existing 
maintenance issues based on the evidence Id seen.
Mr D explained why he disagreed with my findings. Mr D said Fairmead should have sent 
out a surveyor in the week the damage occurred if it wanted to carry out its own survey and 
it was unreasonable for Fairmead to want to survey the roof some five months later. He 
reiterated that Fairmead took too long in dealing with his claim and so, he had to pay for  
the repairs himself. 
Fairmead confirmed it offered £100 compensation to Mr D but that he declined it. It had no 
further comment in respect of my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from my provisional findings, and Ill explain why. Mr D 
has said because Fairmead were too slow to deal with his claim, he had no choice but to 
repair the roof himself. Overall, Fairmead has acknowledged that it could have progressed 
things more quickly and its acknowledged this by offering Mr D compensation. But that 
doesnt change the fact that Mr D had permanent repairs to his roof within a matter of days 
of the damage occurring  at which point he couldnt have known how long it was going to 
take Fairmead to survey his property and/or reach an outcome on his claim. So, I think it 
was always his intention to repair the roof within the timeframe he did. And I dont consider 
it unreasonable - given the short amount of time that had passed - that Fairmead hadnt 
reached decided his claim at that point.
But whats key here is whether there is an insured event. I said in my provisional decision 
that I wasnt persuaded a storm was the sole cause of damage to Mr Ds roof because of 
an apparent lack of maintance. As the policy excludes claims where this there is pre-
existing maintenance isues, I consider it reasonable for Fairmead to rely on this to decline 
Mr Ds claim.
I explained in my provisional decision why I considered the compensation offered 
by Fairmead to be reasonable. So Ill leave it with Mr D to decide whether he wants 
to accept it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman