DRN-2453353
The complaint
Miss S complains that TM Advances Limited (TMA) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Miss S was given a single loan by TMA. She borrowed £2,000 in August 2015 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Miss S made all of her repayments on time and 
settled the loan early, in December 2016. 
Miss Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
information TMA gathered before agreeing the loan should have led it to conclude that 
Miss S was facing serious problems managing her money. As a result he didnt think the 
loan should have been agreed and he asked TMA to pay Miss S some compensation.
TMA doesnt agree with that assessment. It says that it provided the loan to Miss S to help 
with the consolidation of her debts. It doesnt think the results of its checks showed that 
Miss S was struggling with her finances and says that, in fact, Miss S had a perfect 
repayment record on the loan before settling it early. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Miss S accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Ss complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TMA gave this loan to Miss S required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TMA had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. In practice 
this meant that TMA had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Miss S 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TMA to 
simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of 
any repayments on Miss S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TMA did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Miss S.
TMA gathered some information from Miss S before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And it gathered details about her 
outstanding credit, and how she had managed credit in the past, from her credit file.
Miss S was entering into a significant commitment with TMA. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that TMA wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Miss Ss financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks TMA did before 
agreeing the loan were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case. 
TMAs credit check showed that Miss S had a large number of open credit accounts, 
including credit cards, high cost loans, and payday lending. Many of Miss Ss accounts were 
close to their limits. And a significant proportion of Miss Ss loans had been opened in the 
months immediately preceding this application. I think taken together those might have 
indicated that at that time Miss S was facing problems managing her money.
I appreciate that TMA says that Miss S intended to use the loan to refinance some other 
debt. Although it appears that didnt happen, I dont think it was unreasonable for TMA to rely 
on what Miss S had said about how she intended to use the loan. But the amount she 
borrowed was less than 15% of her outstanding debt. So even if she had used all of the loan 
for consolidation she would still have been left with significant debts, many of which, as I 
said earlier, had only recently been opened.TMA says that Miss Ss perfect repayment record on the loan is clear evidence that she was 
able to afford her monthly repayments. I dont agree that is always the case. A lender needs 
to ensure that a consumer can repay any borrowing sustainably  that is from income or 
savings and without having to borrow further. Looking at Miss Ss finances I can see that she 
continued to borrow from other short-term lenders immediately after she took the loan from 
TMA. And she used that additional borrowing to both support her normal expenditure, and 
meet her debt repayments. So whilst TMA couldnt have known Miss S would take those 
other loans, it also cant reasonably rely on her repayment record as an indicator that its loan 
was sustainably affordable for her.
So, in summary, whilst I think the checks TMA did before agreeing the loan were 
proportionate, I think the results of those checks should have led TMA to decline the loan 
application. So I dont think that the loan should have been given to Miss S, and TMA needs 
to pay her some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think TMA should have agreed to lend to Miss S in August 2015. So TMA should;
refund all the interest and charges Miss S paid on the loan. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman