DRN-1978795
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont pay thir 
home insurance claim for external storm damage to their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C reported a claim to RSA in February 2019 when rain water caused internal 
damage to their kitchen. This followed two named storms over consecutive weekends. 
Mr and Mrs C had a builder inspect the damage. They said that the water coming through 
the ceiling in the kitchen was from water soaking through and then down the inside of the 
chimney through an inadequate damp proof course (DPC).
RSA sent out a surveyor (B) who inspected the roof/chimney. He concluded that the water 
likely came in through cracked flaunching (the mortar bed around the top of the chimney). 
He concluded that this was a maintenance/ wear and tear issue, and not damage caused by 
a storm. RSA accepted the internal damage and a payment has been agreed in this respect. 
However it would not agree to pay for repairs to the chimney.
Mr and Mrs C also instructed a surveyor (C) who provided a report which said that the 
storms drove water through the brickwork causing the damp to penetrate the house. He said 
the pointing and brickwork were in reasonably sound condition and showed normal wear for 
their age. He didnt think there was a failure of the DPC. He thought the flaunching showed 
hairline cracks though not enough for water penetration.
RSA still declined to pay the claim. It said that there was no evidence of storm damage to 
the chimney and that the brickwork/mortar should be expected to dry out, having regard to 
Cs opinion. Mr and Mrs C disputed this, pointing out particularly that they had noticed 
recently a damp patch had appeared during much lighter rain. Their builders said that once 
brickwork has been breached like this, there was a high likelihood of further water ingress 
They recommended that the chimney be partly taken down, to remove the exposed part. I 
believe Mr and Mrs C have gone ahead with the builders suggested repair.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I will be concentrating on the claim and the reasons for its decline. I wont look at  the 
wider issues of the relationship between RSA and its claims handling company, nor the 
authority it gave to them to decide a claim as I think those are matters for RSA. I think the 
claim was looked at and decided over a reasonable period of time.
As Mr and Mrs C have been advised by RSA and by our investigator, when assessing 
whether there is storm damage under a home insurance policy, we ask three questions. It is 
only if the answer to each of those questions is "Yes that it is most likely that we would tell 
an insurer to deal with a claim as storm damage. The questions are:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
2.   Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.   Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
I think its been accepted that there were storm conditions, consisting of high winds and 
heavy rain. I would observe however that for storm cover to apply the damage has to be 
caused by a one-off incident of storm. I say this as C has referred to two storms over 
successive weekends and that they followed one of the wettest winters on record.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
The damage occurred because according to C storms drove water through the brickwork 
causing the damp to penetrate the house. He explained that moisture is usually absorbed 
by the brickwork and pointing which then evaporates. but If however the pointing becomes 
too saturated during the intensity of a storm the wind can physically drive water into the void 
behind the brickwork.
I can see that as an explanation for the water penetrating and causing the damage to the 
kitchen. But, given that C said the pointing and brickwork were in reasonably sound 
condition, this doesnt explain why repairs were needed or why following the storms, there 
was a need to carry out repairs to the roof. I dont think the external damage is consistent 
with storm damage. Nevertheless Ill go on to look at the third question:
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I dont think that Bs report and Cs report necessarily contradict each other. I note B said 
there are cracks to the flaunching which C dismissed. But neither report is able to point to 
external damage which was caused by the weather. Mr and Mrs Cs builder is of the view 
that the bricks had become porous and that once they had been breached the damage was 
likely to reoccur. But whilst I understand Cs explanation for the penetration of the brickwork 
during an unusually heavy storm, that doesnt explain why the damage should have needed 
remedying. I think it more likely, given Cs comments about an unusually wet winter and a 
previous storm, that the brickwork becoming porous and not able to dry out naturally must 
have occurred over a long period of time. This is rather than happening as a result of one 
storm. I dont think storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
Lastly Mr and Mrs C have pointed out that their surveyors report cost them a lot of money, 
as much as the cost of the internal repair. They have pointed out that RSA used the report to 
review the claim, and feel that it should pay for it. Its a matter for the consumer if they want 
to obtain independent evidence. We would not usually require the insurer to pay for this 
unless the report caused it to overturn its previous decision. It hasnt done so in this case, 
but the fact that it doesnt dispute the main conclusions of that report doesnt mean it should 
pay for it. It has reviewed the report, as I would expect it to, but it didnt change its 
conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman