DRN-4341599
The complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited wont provide a motor insurance policy for his 
work delivering fast food. 
What happened
Another driver hit Mr Hs parked car and he made a claim on his policy. It then came to light 
that Mr H used his car for fast food delivery. esure dealt with Mr Hs claim and it didnt cancel 
his policy. But it said it wouldnt provide cover for fast food delivery. Mr H said hed been told 
by esure in a phone call that he would be covered for this. But esure said the policy was 
taken out online and it had no record of a call from Mr H. Mr H cancelled the policy and 
found cover elsewhere. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw evidence 
from esure that it didnt provide cover for fast food delivery under business use. He didnt 
see any evidence that esure had mis-advised Mr H, so he couldnt say it had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr H replied that he had found the policy through an online comparison site and had called 
esure to check that it would cover him for fast food delivery. But he was unable to provide 
records of this call due to the passage of time. Mr H asked for an Ombudsmans review, so 
his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H is adamant that he called esure to complete the purchase of his policy 
and then checked that it would cover him for his part-time job as a delivery driver. But esure 
checked its records and it didnt have any record of contact from Mr H until he made his 
claim. It said the policy had been bought online and Mr H hadnt called.
Mr H hasnt been able to provide evidence from his phone records that he called esure. So 
as I have no evidence to show that he called esure, then I cant say that it provided him with 
incorrect advice. 
Ive seen esures underwriting criteria and I can see that it covers occupations such as a 
delivery driver, but it doesnt cover use of vehicles for such occupations. And I can see that 
Mr Hs policy documents state that hire and reward isnt covered. The risks it chooses to 
cover is esures commercial decision and so I cant say it did anything wrong in this. 
As it was, esure dealt with Mr Hs claim for the total loss of his car as it was parked and 
unattended at the time and not then being used for deliveries. And Mr H chose to cancel his 
policy as he found alternative cover elsewhere that better suited his needs. So I cant say 
that Mr H was caused any loss in any case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman