DRN-2997104
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of her late husbands estate that Northern Bank Limited (trading 
as Danske Bank) wont refund credit card transactions which the late Mr S said he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Back in 2019, Mr S held a credit card with Northern Bank and made a payment towards 
the account of around £22,000 in June that year. He did so with the intention of spending 
money on the card while travelling. Due to the balance and limit of the card at the time, 
this payment took the account into a significant credit balance. That is, instead of using the 
credit facility provided by Northern Bank, this payment meant Mr S would in fact be 
spending his own money until the credit balance was used up.
Mr S went on a planned trip to Benidorm in July 2019 and took the card with him to use. 
One night, Mr S entered an establishment (D). According to his version of events, he 
entered this nightclub and agreed to spend some money on and alcohol and certain 
services which were offered to him over the course of a few hours. Mr S recalled paying 
for all of this by inputting his card into a card machine, together with entering his PIN.
As he remembered it, on 15 July 2019, the morning after visiting D, Mr S woke up in a 
wasteland some distance from both D and the hotel he was staying at. It was that 
morning that he first realised his credit card was no longer with him and he also didnt 
have any cash left. Mr S explained that he was alone and only managed to find his way 
back to where he was staying by getting assistance from a stranger who found him 
stranded.
Mr S said that he did endeavour to notify Northern Bank that he was without his card that 
same day  but was unable to get in touch with the bank or communicate via bank 
branches nearby his hotel. Because, as he described it, staff at these branches were 
unhelpful. So, all of this was first reported to Northern Bank when Mr S returned back to 
the UK a week or so later. In the meantime, hed seen out the remaining few days of his 
holiday, relying on the pre-paid package he had at his hotel. As his food, accommodation 
and travel back to the UK had already been paid for he was able to get home.
Upon visiting his branch, Northern Bank provided Mr S with his recent transaction history.     
Mr S noticed some unexplained spending on the account. The transactions he didnt 
recognise were made up of a number of card payments in D, followed by subsequent 
cash withdrawals and card purchases in other establishments in Benidorm. All in all, this 
spending totalled around 16,000 euros spent over the course of around 24 hours. This 
began from when Mr S visited D and spanned across the course of the next day, i.e. after 
hed became aware on the morning of 15 July 2019 that his card was missing. 
When he first found out about this spending, Mr S told Northern Bank that he wasnt 
entirely sure which transactions he needed to dispute. But over the following few weeks, 
Mr S claimed that he should not be held liable for anything other than a few card 
payments in D, up to a maximum of around £350. He explained that he hadnt consented 
to any of the other payments and cash withdrawals and maintained that he had nothing to 
do with the expenditure  so he must have been scammed.
When Northern Bank questioned him further on what had happened, Mr S accepted that 
hed couldnt accurately recall the whole evening of 14 July 2019, due to feeling 
significantly intoxicated that night. He said he was also still feeling the effects of this the 
following morning. Even so, he was sure that hed tried to raise the matter the next day by 
entering bank branches nearby and he also registered a report in the local Police station 
too. Mr S submitted that his card and PIN number must have both been intercepted 
without him realising. As he saw it, this was plausible given that he was asked by Ds staff 
to enter both into a portable card machine on multiple occasions. Mr S wasnt sure how 
the transactions happened outside of D  but, in the end, he concluded that he must have 
had his card stolen at some point that night.
After investigating the disputed transactions Northern Bank declined to refund them. 
Among other reasons, it said that it couldnt reasonably be expected to have blocked the 
spending or questioned it before it went ahead. The bank drew similarities to recent 
expenditure that Mr S made himself while on holiday and, overall, thought there were fair 
grounds for not intervening. Whats more, Northern Bank said that Mr S had a duty to 
make it aware of the loss of his card without undue delay. And had he done so when he 
first became aware on the morning of 15 July 2019, the subsequent transactions couldve 
been avoided entirely, as the card could have been immediately blocked.
Unhappy with this, Mr S asked our service to decide the complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into it and had a number of conversations with him about what 
happened. Sadly, Mr S then passed away in January 2021.
After concluding her investigation, our investigator was satisfied Mr S had been the victim 
of a scam, with there being a plausible explanation for the interception of his card and 
PIN, together with reliable evidence that D was renowned for facilitating this type of fraud. 
She took into consideration the vulnerabilities that Mr S had in respect of his mental 
health. Overall, her recommendation was that Northern Bank should refund a number of 
the disputed transactions and offer £100 compensation.
Northern Bank didnt agree and made a number of counter-arguments:
 It contested the evidence about D, particularly that it was known to facilitate this 
exact type of scam. The reason being, the date of the online articles and media 
coverage referenced were actually reported in November 2018, regarding a different 
nightclub operating in Benidorm. This establishment was known for criminal activity  
but was in fact shutdown some months prior to the disputed transactions that took 
place in D during July 2019. Therefore, D cannot fairly be considered in the same 
light.
 There are some concerning discrepancies in Mr S version of events.
 The bank raised that the disputed spending was not typical of fraudulent behaviour. 
There are noticeable gaps between certain transactions, yet there was money 
available to spend on the card. In Northern Banks view, its illogical for someone who 
had the means to use the card to wait for such long periods between the 
transactions.
 Its not in question that Mr S intended to spend money in D. The nature of this 
nightclub and the fact that he was intoxicated needs to be considered. Finally, the bank reiterated that Mr S had a duty to inform it of the loss and/or theft of 
his card without undue delay.
 Overall, its position is that its speculative that the transactions were made without Mr 
S authority. Therefore, Northern Bank maintains that it should not be held liable for 
refunding any the disputed transactions.
Our investigator reviewed Northern Banks response but remained of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld. Although, shes since explained to the parties that were unable 
to recommend the £100 compensation element, considering our complaint handling rules 
regarding deceased complainants.
Because Northern Bank is not in agreement with our initial assessment, the complaint 
has been escalated to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2021. In this, I said:
I know my intended decision will be disappointing for Mrs S. This is a finely-balanced 
case and Id like to assure her that Ive duly considered everything thats been provided. 
Including, the vulnerabilities that her late husband had and described to this service. But 
on account of the evidence, Im not currently persuaded that Northern Bank ought to 
refund the disputed transactions here. Ill explain why.
relevant considerations
Its important to point out that its not for me to determine exactly what happened on the 
night of 14 July 2019 nor the following day. Rather, what I need to decide is whether 
Northern Bank could fairly and reasonably have held Mr S liable for the transactions he 
said he didnt make during this time.
One of the regulations that is relevant when considering this is the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In short, Northern Bank is generally required to refund 
any unauthorised transactions. There are some exceptions in the regulations  but 
none Ive needed to consider or that have an impact on the decision I intend to make 
here.
The PSRs also say that a person to whom a card has been issued must use it in 
accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue and use. And according to 
the relevant section of the regulations, Mr S had a duty to notify Northern Bank without 
undue delay on becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of 
his card.
The credit facility provided by Northern Bank was used for some of the transactions in 
question here, i.e. once the credit balance Mr S put on the card had been used up. Where 
such credit is involved, the PSRs make provision for the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
to apply.
In summary, the CCA says Mr S wouldnt be responsible for any loss arising from the use 
of his credit card facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as his 
agent. But the provisions in the CCA didnt stop Mr S from being made liable to any extent 
for the loss to Northern Bank from the use of the credit card by a person who had it with 
his consent.So, in simpler terms, the case turns on whether the transactions were authorised. 
Ive therefore focused on this key point in my decision.
were the disputed transactions authorised?
For a transaction to be authorised it must first be authenticated. We know that both the 
card and PIN were needed in order for all of the disputed transactions to go ahead as 
they did. Its common ground that it was Mr S card and correct PIN that were used as 
authentication. And the technical evidence presented by Northern Bank satisfies me that 
the transactions were all correctly authenticated using these security credentials.
That on its own is not enough to enable Northern Bank to hold Mr S liable. However, 
Northern Bank could have held him liable if the evidence suggests that its more likely 
than not that he consented to the transactions being made. This is the case whether he 
made them himself or authorised another to do so.
Before Mr S passed away, he made a number of submissions to our service. Im 
satisfied that he was given ample opportunity to present his case and Ive thought 
carefully about whether he consented to the transactions.
Turning first to the card activity on the night Mr S spent in D. Mr S always maintained that 
certain staff members at D manipulated him into entering his card and PIN for amounts 
that went far beyond what he owed. He said they also tricked him into believing that 
certain transactions hadnt been successful and so he needed to execute the payment 
again. When in fact, he was unfairly charged multiple times for what shouldve been the 
same payment. Hence, why there are a number of card transactions at D that he 
disputed.
In situations like these, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
need to decide a complaint on what I think is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of all the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Upon doing so, I am not currently persuaded that Mr S didnt provide his consent for 
these transactions to go ahead. I say so for the following reasons:
1. Its common ground that Mr S made a significant payment towards the account 
before travelling to Benidorm, which formed a credit balance. A credit card is not the 
same as a deposit taking account; its fundamental purpose is for purchases rather 
than a place to hold a consumers funds. As I see it, loading the account with a 
c.£20,000 payment signifies that it was always Mr S intention to spend an amount 
in that region  Im certainly not led to believe that he wished to hold his funds as a 
credit balance indefinitely. Indeed, Mr S explained that he pre-paid this amount to 
cover his expenditure while on holiday.
2. Using the card frequently on holiday was something that Mr S had done on at least 
two different occasions in the months leading up to his trip to Benidorm. I therefore 
cannot say that spending on it while abroad was unusual or uncharacteristic for him. 
Although he may have spent more on this holiday than he did previously, the fact 
that he created a credit balance before leaving for Benidorm indicates that he 
wanted to have more funds available for this particular trip. And Mr S explained that 
this card was his sole method of payment while there  he did not bring another 
card with him.3. Mr S willingly entered D and didnt deny that he opted to use the card to pay for 
alcohol and other services. The total cost of which was difficult for him to quantify 
exactly, given the nature of what was being offered at the nightclub. In any case, 
we know that Mr S was at the establishment at his own choosing, having brought 
the means to cover the expenditure that ultimately occurred there.
4. On his own account of what happened, Mr S appreciated he was spending money 
for services rendered. He input his card and PIN into the card machine while at D. 
By doing so, he followed the agreed procedure to execute the transactions that 
took place, in accordance with the terms and conditions governing the cards issue 
and use.
5. Although Mr S claimed that the staff at D manipulated the amounts he was agreeing 
to spend, by his own admission, he became very intoxicated to the extent that he 
was unable to remember much of what happened that night. With respect, I cannot 
rule out that he consented to the spending at the time but simply could not 
remember afterwards.
6. Besides, if Mr S was tricked into making a payment, or deceived about the 
amount he was paying, that doesnt necessarily make the payment transaction 
unauthorised.
7. I have to bear in mind that it was Mr S discretion how to spend his money. He was 
entitled to do so without the bank second-guessing or intervening if the transactions 
were for services that he had chosen to pay for. Under these circumstances, I 
cannot safely conclude that an effective warning from the bank wouldve made a 
difference; the evidence suggests Mr S was at D and spending on his own accord.
8. Northern Bank should have paid due regard to certain vulnerabilities Mr S had 
concerning his mental health. However, Im satisfied the bank were only made 
aware of this in 2020, some months after these transactions had already taken 
place. I therefore do not find it fair to expect this to have had a bearing on the 
banks decision making at the material time.
9. Finally, I cannot safely conclude that D was renowned for facilitating this type of 
scam (or any other type of fraud for that matter). As I understand it, the press 
reports and online articles referenced were in connection to a different nightclub that 
preceded Ds operation.
Ive gone on to consider the subsequent card activity that took place. The key point 
with these cash withdrawals and card payments is that, unlike the spending in D, Mr S 
says he was not present with his card when these transactions occurred. So, in order 
to decide that they should be refunded, I need to be persuaded that a third-party (or 
third parties) fraudulently intercepted both his card and PIN.
Together with the points Ive made above, the reasons that follow leave me unconvinced 
that this is what happened:
10. Mr S conceded that his memory was hazy in part, which is why he didnt specify 
which transactions he wanted to dispute immediately after Northern Bank presented 
him with the accounts recent activity. While I can appreciate that his recollection 
may not have been entirely clear, I have to bear in mind that the discrepancies in  
Mr S story take away from the credibility of his submission.11. For example, during a call shared with our investigator, Mr S appeared confident 
that he left D with the card still in his possession. He remembered specifically that 
he had it in his wallet when leaving the nightclub.
12. On that basis, I cant see a persuasive explanation for how a third-party was able 
to fraudulently use the card without his consent. Because, even if Mr S PIN had 
been compromised, the disputed transactions simply could not have been 
executed without the presence of the card itself. Its unclear how the card was with 
Mr S  yet, he did not consent to these cash withdrawals and card payments 
taking place.
13. On the other hand, Mr S also told our service that he thought his card was taken 
from him while in D  so he was without it when he left there. He believed that it 
was stolen from him once a third-party had managed to intercept his PIN, 
perhaps through observing him enter it into the card machine.
14. I accept that this was possible. However, I reach my decision not on mere 
possibilities  but rather based on what I find most probable. And, on balance, I am 
not persuaded that this is what happened. I say so because, the overall behaviour 
here does not match what Id typically expect of fraud. On the contrary, I find it 
unusual and unlikely for a fraudster to have intercepted Mr S card and PIN to then 
use it in the way that it was.
15. In particular, the timing of the transactions does not convince me that a third-party 
was fraudulently spending on the card. I find it reasonable to conclude that a 
fraudster would make the most of having access to the card and PIN in the shortest 
possible amount of time, in order to maximise their gain before the fraud was 
identified and/or the card blocked. But here, there are gaps between some 
transactions of six and even nine hours on certain occasions. In other words, there 
was funds available to spend, yet no payments or withdrawals were made for 
several hours or more.
16. The common factor in what Mr S described was that he last remembered having his 
card while at D, which is also where he maintained that the fraudulent activity 
began. If I were to accept that his card was in fact stolen, the thief would likely be 
aware that it would only be a matter of time before the theft was reported to the 
authorities. I cannot see a compelling reason why a perpetrator would jeopardise 
being able to extract as much of the available balance as possible by leaving long 
intervals between the transactions. Especially, as some of the spending took place 
almost a full 24 hours after Mr S claims it was first stolen  it does not make sense 
to me why a fraudster would take such an undue risk.
17. Whats more, Mrs S whereabouts and actions after he left D have not been 
corroborated with documentary evidence. For instance, Mr S claimed to have raised 
the matter with branches of Northern Bank on 15 July 2019 once aware that his 
card had been stolen. Yet, there is no record of this and the bank has evidenced 
that it held no such branches in Benidorm at the time  so this cannot be true 
regardless. Mr S was also unable to produce a crime reference number or incident 
report from the Police in Benidorm, despite explaining that he raised the matter with 
the local Police station.18. I must follow the evidence and, ultimately, Mr S did not persuasively prove his case 
having been given a fair chance to do so. After all, I am faced with a conflicting 
version of events from Mr S. For me to accept his side of things and uphold the 
complaint, I would need to place considerable evidential weight on his testimony. 
But in fairness, his statement is slightly vague and self-contradictory regarding what 
are critical elements to a case of this kind. I therefore cannot safely conclude that 
the activity in question was executed without his consent based on his testimony 
alone.
19. This is not, however, the same as dismissing Mr S statement  and I hope Mrs S 
can appreciate that it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold this 
complaint based solely on Mr S testimony if on balance the evidence suggests 
otherwise.
notification without undue delay
Finally, I turn to the obligation Mr S had to report the loss and/or theft of his card without 
undue delay. I see no compelling reason why, upon being made aware of the theft of the 
card, the bank could not have blocked it from further use. Consequently, I must consider 
that if Mr S had notified Northern Bank sooner, it could have prevented the majority (if not 
all) of the transactions that took place on 15 July 2019 and onwards.
Mr S claims that he was able to raise the matter with the authorities and/or bank staff. 
So, I must assume that he was aware of the need to report what had happened and 
appears to have been able to express his concerns. As I understand it, he still had 
possession of his mobile phone. So, notwithstanding any attempt in branch or the local 
Police station, its unclear to me why he could not have contacted Northern Bank 
following a quick search for its contact number on the internet. As a large identifiable 
bank, it seems highly likely that such a phone number could be found online or through 
other reasonable endeavours. We also know that Mr S saw out the rest of his stay at his 
hotel having returned there on 15 July 2019. And it seems plausible that he could have 
asked for assistance from hotel staff to find some way to get in touch with his bank.
Therefore, although I realise the ordeal must have been upsetting for him, I find it 
reasonable to have expected Mr S to have reported that his card was missing shortly after 
he became aware. So, even putting aside the considerations surrounding whether the 
transactions were authorised, Im satisfied that some of the loss here could have been 
avoided, but for Mr S raising things sooner in accordance with his obligations under the 
PSRs.
To that end, unless my conclusions are persuasively rebutted on the grounds of both 
authorisation and the duty Mr S had under the relevant regulations, I will not be 
requiring Northern Bank to refund the disputed transactions here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Northern Bank accepts my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
Mrs S does not agree. She reiterated that the late Mr S did not authorise these 
transactions and the loss of the money was a cause of great upset for him before he 
died. 
As Mrs S sees it, there were large amounts leaving the account at high speed. 
Therefore, Northern Bank ought to have done more to intervene, considering how 
uncharacteristic this spending was for the account. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs S for her response and have duly reviewed her comments, along with 
reconsidering all of the evidence and submissions from each of the parties. 
As I explained, I would need to see persuasive evidence to rebut my provisional 
findings both on the grounds of authorisation and the duty Mr S had under the 
relevant regulations. 
Ultimately, there has been no new evidence or arguments presented that are 
materially different from that of what Ive considered before. Mrs S response 
reiterates the merits of the case that I had already thought about carefully. Therefore, 
although I recognise how strongly Mrs S feels about the matter of whether this was in 
fact a scam, my review of whats before me leads me to the same overall conclusions 
as set out in my provisional decision.
Im sorry to dissapoint Mrs S on what I can appreicate is a highly sensitive and upsetting 
subject for her and her family. However, I remain of the opinion that it would not be fair or 
reasonable of me to require Nothern Bank to refund the disputed transactions here.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint nor make any award against Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman