DRN-3495906
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shogun Finance Limited trading as Shogun Financial Services 
(Shogun) didnt allow him to enter into a payment plan and keep a car he acquired under a 
hire purchase agreement, following him entering into a bankruptcy order. He also complains 
about the way in which Shogun has corresponded with him and how it has handled his 
complaint.
Mr H has been represented. For clarity, Ill only refer to Mr H throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr H acquired a car under a 47 month hire purchase agreement with Shogun in April 2017. 
The car cost around £32,500 and a deposit of £7,500 was paid towards the agreement. 
Under the agreement, Mr H was required to make 47 payments of £356.08, followed by a 
final payment of £12,622 if he wanted to keep the car.
Mr H stopped making payments towards the agreement in July 2019. In August 2019, 
Shogun issued Mr H with a notice of default. In September 2019, Mr H entered into a 
bankruptcy order. Shogun passed Mr Hs account to a third party, who Ill refer to as P, in 
October 2019. Mr H let P know he would be entering into a bankruptcy order, so P handed 
the account back to Shogun. 
Following this, Mr H contacted Shogun and it told Mr H it couldnt change the term of his 
agreement, but it would allow him to keep the car as long as the account was brought up to 
date. But no further payments were made towards the agreement. In November 2019,       
Mr Hs bankruptcy was confirmed and so Shogun issued a Return of Goods letter to Mr H. 
In December 2019, Mr H contacted Shogun and said whilst he was in the process of handing 
back the car, he had changed his mind and now wanted to keep the car. He also told it that 
his preferred communication was by email. Following this, Shogun attempted to call Mr H to 
let him know it would require the goods to be returned to it, unless Mr H could show he had 
enough disposable income to support the arrears under the agreement. It also sent Mr H a 
notice of default. 
In January 2020, Mr H contacted Shogun and said it hadnt responded to his letter that he 
sent it in November 2019. He said Shogun had called him, despite him asking it to email him 
or send him letters. And he said he hadnt used the car since August 2019, but had an MOT 
carried out on it, as it hadnt been collected from him. He also said he wanted to keep the car 
and asked Shogun to consider extending the term of repayments so he could reduce his 
monthly figure. 
In February 2020, Mr H wrote to Shogun again asking for a response to his previous letters 
and says he was told by his solicitor not to make any further payments. Shogun attempted to 
contact Mr H by phone, but didnt hear from him. It also emailed him in June 2020 asking   
Mr H to contact it. In July 2020, Mr H complained to Shogun and said it hadnt responded to 
his letters despite him writing to it four times. He said he was struggling to find a solution to 
his issue and Shogun hadnt assisted. Mr H also contacted our service to ask it for 
assistance. 
In August 2020, Mr H wrote to Shogun and said it hadnt taken any action to collect the car 
from him, despite him asking it to. He said it had a legal obligation to collect the car and if it 
didnt, steps could be taken to sell it. He said he would deduct expenses for abandonment of 
the car from the net proceeds of the sale. He proposed that Shogun should allow him to buy 
the car on credit terms and he said his father would guarantee this.
Shogun responded to Mr H and said it couldnt alter the term of the agreement and enter into 
a new repayment plan. It also said as Mr H had paid more than a third of the total amount 
payable under the agreement, it couldnt collect the car without written confirmation from    
Mr H bearing his signature. It said Mr H should provide this and written confirmation that he 
wanted to surrender the car and let him know there would be a balance of around £4,500, 
which would be submitted as an unsecured claim within the bankruptcy. It said once it had 
received this, it would collect the car from Mr H.
Shogun also issued its response to Mr Hs complaint in August 2020. It said it told Mr H it 
had terminated his agreement as a result of his bankruptcy order in November 2019. It 
acknowledged receiving Mr Hs letter dated November 2019, but because it had already 
terminated the agreement, it couldnt allow him to keep the car and enter into a payment 
plan. It said it acknowledged it didnt respond to some of Mr Hs letters and so it said it would 
arrange to make a payment of £75 to Mr H.
Mr H responded and said he didnt think Shogun had been fair when it said it wouldnt enter 
into a new agreement with him, despite his father offering to act as a guarantor. He also 
provided his consent for Shogun to collect the car. As Shogun didnt respond, he sent it 
another letter later that month stating the car hadnt yet been collected. He said Shogun 
should pay his insurance cost of around £500 and he said it should reimburse him for storing 
the car on his property. As no response was received, Mr H wrote to Shogun and said if it 
didnt collect the car within 14 days, he would sell or dispose of the car. As Shogun didnt 
respond, Mr H wrote to it and told it he would sell the car through an online auction unless 
the car was collected from it by late November 2020.
Shogun responded and apologised that it hadnt responded to Mr Hs letters since early 
September 2020. It said it instructed its collection agents, who Ill refer to as B, to arrange 
collection of the car. But they were unable to collect the car due to a number of factors, such 
as being unable to agree an appropriate time of collection with Mr H. It said it had arranged 
for a different collection company to arrange a suitable collection date and time.
Mr H responded and said he received correspondence from B and said he hadnt received 
any correspondence from a different collection company. He said apart from one email he 
received from B, no attempts had been made to collect the car. He also said he didnt live at 
the address Shogun had on file, the car wasnt at that address and neither was it at his new 
address. He asked Shogun to correspond with him directly.
In early December 2020, the new collection agents, who Ill refer to as C, wrote to Mr H and 
said it would be in touch in the next three working days. Mr H wrote to Shogun and asked it 
whether it had told C there was a legal dispute in regard to the consent to collect the car. He 
also said he had sent a copy of the letter to C. In January 2021, Mr H let Shogun know the 
car would be sold at auction. Or alternatively, he said he would be prepared to buy the car 
from Shogun for £7,000.
Mr H also referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated the complaint and said the hire 
purchase agreement ended when the bankruptcy order was entered into, so Shogun 
shouldnt have continued to pursue him for the outstanding amounts. He said he would only 
release the location of the car for collection to Shogun, if Shogun agreed to meet his ongoing 
expenses. He also said Shogun should apologise to him and compensate him for the time 
and effort he spent dealing with the complaint and the stress it caused him.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Shogun had acted unfairly when it 
terminated Mr Hs agreement following his bankruptcy. He said the amount of compensation 
Shogun had already paid Mr H for the lack of response and its telephone communication 
was reasonable. He also said Shogun had instructed B to collect the car on a number of occasions, but B was unable to through no fault of its own. He said he didnt think Shogun 
needed to pay Mr H the losses he was claiming for and Mr H should let Shogun know where 
the car is so it can collect it.
Mr H disagreed. He said:
His reading of past case law said that the hire purchase agreement came to an end 
automatically when the bankruptcy order was made. He said Shogun could have 
offered to pass title to the Trustee in the bankruptcy so the car could be sold, so the 
net proceeds could settle the outstanding balance with Shogun and the balance be 
paid to the remaining creditors of his bankruptcy. He said there would have been no 
circumstances in which title could have passed to him, regardless of how keen he 
was to inherit the car.
The car could have been collected immediately from him once the bankruptcy order 
was approved and had Shogun done this, it wouldnt have caused him further 
expenses.
He had no obligation to tell Shogun of the whereabouts of the car and he wasnt at 
fault for the failed collection in December 2020
Shogun should make an acceptable offer to him and following this, he will tell Shogun 
where the car is.
In response to this, our investigator explained that whilst this service considers relevant law, 
this service wasnt a court of law and may consider a case differently.
As Mr H remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations 
and guidance. Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view 
on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr H has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether Shogun acted unfairly when it told Mr H it 
wouldnt allow him to keep the car after the bankruptcy, whether it has unfairly delayed the 
collection of the car and whether it has acted unfairly in any other way. If it has acted 
unfairly, Ill need to think about whats fair, if anything, to put things right.
The terms of Mr Hs hire purchase agreement say:
10.2 We shall also be entitled to end this Agreement (provided we have previously given 
you seven days notice of our intention to do so) if you present or have presented against 
you a petition for a bankruptcy order or a scheme of arrangement or an application for a 
voluntary arrangement or are apparently insolvent, or if you cease to trade, or the Goods are 
seized or detained by anyone having legal authority to do so.Shogun became aware that Mr H had entered into a bankruptcy order in late 2019. It sent  
Mr H a notice of default before this in August 2019 which said it would terminate the 
agreement if payment wasnt made. So when Shogun became aware of Mr Hs bankruptcy 
order, Im satisfied it was entitled to terminate the agreement and recover the car from Mr H. 
I also appreciate that Mr H told Shogun he wanted to keep the car and continue making the 
repayments under the agreement. But Mr Hs agreement is clear in that Shogun is entitled to 
end the agreement should he enter into a bankruptcy order  which he did. I can see 
Shogun did initially tell Mr H he could keep the car if he brought the agreement up to date 
and could show he could pay the arrears. But Mr H didnt do this. And so, I dont think 
Shogun acted unfairly when it told Mr H he couldnt keep the car following him entering into a 
bankruptcy order. 
Having said this, whilst Shogun was entitled to terminate the agreement and repossess the 
car from Mr H, it needed to obtain his consent before it did this. This is because the terms of 
Mr Hs agreement say:
If you do not keep to your side of the agreement but you have paid at least one third of the 
total amount payable under this agreement, that is £12,285.92, we may not take back the 
goods against your wishes unless we get a court order If we do take the goods without 
your consent or a court order, you have the right to get back any money that you have paid 
under this agreement.
So Shogun was unable to collect the car from Mr H unless it received consent from him to do 
so. In September 2020, Shogun received a letter from Mr H confirming it could collect the car 
from him. So from this point, it was entitled to collect the car from Mr H. 
I can see that Shogun instructed B to arrange collection of the car, but the car couldnt be 
collected by B as it couldnt be driven and a car transporter couldnt access the location it 
was stored at. So B were unable to collect the car. I dont think Shogun did anything wrong 
here as it instructed B to collect the car shortly after it received consent from Mr H. However 
B were unable to collect the car due to its condition and being unable to access its location 
in the type of vehicle needed to be able to transport it. Because of these issues, Shogun had 
to find another company to carry out the collection. I can see it initiated this without delay 
and it received a response from C in late November 2020, explaining it would carry out the 
collection. 
Having thought about this carefully, I dont think Shogun has done anything wrong in relation 
to the collection of the car. This is because whilst I understand Mr H hasnt driven the car for 
some time, whilst he is in possession of the car, the terms of his agreement say 4.1 You 
must keep the Goods under your control and in good condition and repair 7.1 You must 
return the Goods in good condition for their age and mileage. In addition, the terms of    
Mr Hs agreement also say, 7.2 You must return the goods to a reasonably convenient 
place that we shall notify to you. 
So Mr H had a responsibility to ensure that the car was in good condition and that it would 
be returned to a reasonably convenient place. However, Mr H told B the car wasnt running, 
so it didnt appear to be in good condition and repair. And as a result of this, B couldnt 
collect the car in September 2020. Had the car been in good condition and repair, its more 
likely than not it would have been easier for B to access its location and be loaded on to a 
car transporter. However, because of the condition of the car, B couldnt access the location 
to collect the car with the equipment it had. 
In any event, it was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure the car was returned to a reasonably 
convenient place. Despite this, Shogun instructed another firm to collect the car, when it 
wasnt required to do so. Mr H also told C it couldnt collect the car due to a legal dispute he 
had raised. In light of this, I dont think Shogun acted unfairly given it has attempted to collect the car 
from Mr H through two separate collection agents unsuccessfully. As a result of this, given I 
dont think its responsible for the delay in collecting the car, I dont think it needs to pay Mr H 
any of the storage fees he says he incurred. And I dont think it needs to pay Mr H any of the 
insurance costs hes incurred, as this is also an obligation upon him whilst he has the car, as 
per the terms of his agreement. 
Ill go on to consider whether I think Shogun has acted unfairly in any other way. 
Having reviewed the correspondence between Mr H and Shogun, I can see that Mr H told 
Shogun in December 2019 he wasnt able to answer phone calls due to his working pattern. 
He requested it email him instead. However, Shogun attempted to contact Mr H by phone a 
number of times and sent text messages to Mr H, following receipt of information from him. 
This is despite it being aware Mr H had requested email contact instead. I dont think its 
acted fairly here and it should have attempted to contact Mr H by email as per his request. 
Shogun accepts it didnt respond to a number of Mr Hs letters in the manner he requested it 
to. It apologised to Mr H for any distress and inconvenience caused as a result of this and 
offered to pay Mr H £75 in recognition of this. Having thought about this, I think this is fair 
and reasonable to reflect the inconvenience Mr H has suffered as a result of Shogun 
attempting to call Mr H instead of emailing him.
My final decision
Shogun Finance Limited trading as Shogun Financial Services has already made an offer to 
pay Mr H £75 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Shogun Finance Limited trading as Shogun Financial Services should 
pay Mr H £75, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman