DRN-4131026
The complaint
Ms R complains about the fees shes been charged and the advice shes been given by 
Fairstone Financial Management Limited (Fairstone).
What happened
Ms R has been a client of Fairstone for some years. They have provided her with 
independent financial advice and an annual review of her investments.
The Fairstone adviser (Mr A) who had been working with Ms R left the company in 2020 and 
Ms R was assigned a new adviser (Mr B). He sent Ms R her annual portfolio review in 
March 2021, followed by a report recommending that she move her ISA and general 
investment account (GIA) to a new platform and change the make-up of her portfolio to 
reduce her exposure to risk. He also recommended that Ms R make use of her ISA 
allowance for 2021/22. Following subsequent discussions about that review, Ms R 
complained to Fairstone. She complained, in summary, that:
The charges Mr B wanted to apply were not consistent with what Mr A had charged.
Mr B told her that her risk profile had fallen sharpy, but she thought she had always been 
a cautious-balanced investor. 
She was being advised to sell down funds onto a new platform just a year after investing 
in the existing platform. She paid Mr A more than £1,200 in fees to use up her ISA 
allowances on the existing platform in 2017/18, 2018/19 and 2019/20. If her existing 
platform was not suitable then she should not have been advised to invest in it.
Mr B said she would be charged an initial fee of £500 for selling down her funds and 
investing in new funds on a new platform. He said the transfer of funds from her GIA to 
her ISA was free of charge. Mr B then told her the £500 fee had been waived saying he 
had been unaware she had already been charged the previous year for the ISA transfer. 
Mr B said he wouldnt charge for transferring existing funds into an ISA, but Mr A did. 
Ms R thinks Fairstone should have consistent terms across their advisers. If the transfer 
into an ISA is not charged, then she is due a refund of £1,200 for transactions in the last 
three years. 
Fairstones ongoing adviser fee is charged simply to hold her funds. Advisers charge 
extra if they give advice that a client acts on, so surely there is an incentive to persuade 
clients to change their investments.
  
In response to Ms Rs complaint, Fairstone said:
The level of adviser charges is agreed between a client and their adviser and set out in a 
service and payment agreement. In 2020 Ms R selected the ActivePlan service and 
her agreement made clear what she would be charged  an initial adviser charge of 2% 
and ongoing adviser charge of 0.5% per annum. She was charged 2% of the £40,000 
she invested in 2019/20 and 2020/21 when using up her ISA allowances. The fees were 
the same in the previous agreement she signed in January 2018.
The 2020 service and payment agreement made no allowance for charging for new 
advice. Mr B proposed a £500 charge as a fixed fee and was entitled to do so. He then 
decided not to charge Ms R, which was his decision and does not call into question the 
fees she had been charged previously. 
Fairstone consists of organisations from diverse backgrounds, and they do not agree 
they should be constrained as to the fees they charge other than within the range 
specified in a clients agreement.  
In relation to the different advice provided by Mr A and Mr B, advisers may have different 
views on which providers to recommend, but they must give suitable advice. They have 
reviewed the advice given by Mr A and found no evidence it was not suitable for Ms R. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Rs complaint. He thought the fees Ms R had been charged 
had been applied correctly. 
Ms R said in response:
The terminology in her client agreement is misleading. As she was not a new client, she 
was not making an initial investment. She should not have been charged that fee for 
what was the ongoing management and reinvestment of funds in her portfolio.
The payment she was to be charged was an initial fee for bespoke work of £500, not 
the initial charge as suggested by our investigator.
Mr B was proposing to review her whole portfolio (worth about £246,000) and withdraw 
and reinvest funds. A substantial amount of that had been reinvested the previous year 
on the advice of Mr A for a 2% fee. 
The £500 fee was against the transfer of £24,275 to an ISA. That is a service that Mr B 
said she would not be charged for. She therefore believes she has been unfairly charged 
in the past.
The 2% initial fee acts as an incentive for advisers to move investments about in order to 
be able to charge a fee in addition to the ongoing adviser charge of 0.5%. 
As Ms R did not agree with our investigator, her complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in April 2023.
I noted that although Ms Rs complaint was prompted by the advice she received in 2021, 
she had said that also led her to question the advice she was given in 2018 and 2020 and 
the fees she was previously charged. I looked at what happened and set out my findings in 
chronological order.   2018 and 2020 advice and fees
 
I looked at the recommendations report that Mr A prepared for Ms R in February 2018. 
At that time, Ms R had about £163,000 invested in her ISA and £123,000 in her GIA, spread 
across a portfolio of funds.
It seemed that Mr A had discussed Ms Rs current investments, her objectives and attitude 
to risk. Ms R was happy with the investments she held. Mr As only recommendation was 
that Ms R utilise her £20,000 ISA allowance for both 2017/18 and 2018/19. As Ms R had 
said she would like an ethical bias for her investments, Mr A recommended that she sell 
holdings from her GIA and reinvest the proceeds in her ISA in an ethical fund that matched 
her attitude to risk. In the circumstances and based on what Id seen, I didnt think I could 
say that Mr As advice was unsuitable. 
Id also seen a copy of the recommendations report from March 2020. The 
recommendations were similar to those given in 2018 but it seemed there was a more 
detailed discussion about Ms Rs attitude to risk. The report said that Ms R had completed a 
questionnaire showing that her attitude to risk was profile 5 but on further discussion she 
wanted to maintain her current level of risk which was profile 8 (adventurous) for her GIA 
and profile 7 (growth) for her ISA. 
I had thought carefully about whether the advice Ms R was given was suitable, particularly in 
relation to her attitude to risk. Mr A highlighted in his report that Ms Rs current portfolio 
exposed her to more risk than she had indicated (through the questionnaire) she was willing 
to take. And while Ms Rs capacity to absorb losses was assessed at 40%, Mr A said there 
was potential for losses to exceed that. But, based on the evidence Id seen, I thought Ms R 
made clear in discussions with Mr A that she was satisfied with her current portfolio and 
wanted to maintain the same level of risk. 
In those circumstances, I didnt think I could fairly say that the recommendations made by 
Mr A were unsuitable. Mr A recommended that Ms R should reduce her overall portfolio risk 
when utilising her ISA allowances each year. For 2019/20 and 2020/21, he recommended 
that Ms R should invest her ISA allowance in a cautious ethical fund. That would meet 
Ms Rs ethical objective and begin to reduce her exposure to risk.     
In both 2018 and 2020 Ms R was charged an initial fee of £800. Her client agreement with 
Fairstone said that an initial charge would cover the cost of their recommendation reports, 
research, other relevant services and the implementation of any recommendations. It would 
be calculated as a percentage of the amount invested  3% for investments up to £250,000 
and 2% for investments between £250,000 and £500,000. Confirmation of charges would be 
outlined in a separate service and charges agreement. 
The initial charge of £800 represented 2% of the £40,000 Ms R was investing in her ISA, so 
it seemed Mr A based the fee percentage on the size of Ms Rs overall portfolio rather than 
the amount she was investing in her ISA. The £800 charges were set out in separate service 
and payment agreements that Ms R signed. 
I had thought about whether it was fair for Fairstone to charge Ms R for utilising her ISA 
allowance in that way. But I said that Ms R was not just selling holdings in her GIA and 
buying them back in her ISA account. Mr A had recommended that she sell holdings from 
her GIA and invest in different funds through her ISA that would meet her ethical objective 
and reduce her exposure to risk. In those circumstances, I thought it was reasonable for 
Fairstone to charge an initial fee for the advice they were offering. 2021 advice and fees
Mr B took over as Ms Rs adviser in 2021 and completed the annual review of her 
investments. At that time, Ms R had about £246,000 invested in her ISA and £24,000 in her 
GIA. It seemed her objectives remained broadly the same  she wanted to achieve capital 
growth in excess of inflation, and she was keen to make ethical investments. 
Ms R had recently completed a risk profile questionnaire which showed her attitude to risk 
was now profile 4 or cautious-balanced. According to Mr Bs report, Ms R had some 
capacity for risk, and she agreed that a fall of 20% in the value of her investments would not 
affect her standard of living.  
Mr B said that the risk profile of Ms Rs current investments was significantly higher than her 
attitude to risk. Her ISA was profile 7 and her GIA was profile 8. He recommended that 
Ms R sell down all the funds she held in her ISA and GIA, open accounts on a new platform 
and invest both her ISA and GIA funds in a new portfolio. The new portfolio was described 
as a discretionary managed multi asset class portfolio with funds allocated across equities, 
fixed income and cash. 
As Mr A had done the previous year, Mr B identified that Ms Rs portfolio no longer matched 
her attitude to risk. And Ms Rs attitude to risk and capacity for loss were assessed as being 
lower than the previous year. I thought it was therefore appropriate for Mr B to recommend 
changes in Ms Rs portfolio. And I thought the portfolio that Mr B recommended was in line 
with Ms Rs investment objective and attitude to risk and met her aim of making more ethical 
investments. I therefore thought it was a suitable recommendation.
I had also thought about whether Mr Bs advice to switch investment platforms was suitable 
for Ms Rs needs. I could see that Mr B provided some rationale for the switch. He described 
Ms Rs existing platform as limited and unreliable compared to others. He also said the 
recommended new platform would provide access to a wider choice of investments at 
discounted rates and allow easier online management of Ms Rs investments. 
Mr Bs report said that the charges on the recommended new platform would be lower and 
that if Ms R accepted all his recommendations the ongoing charges would be almost 
identical. Based on what Id seen, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr B to recommend 
the new platform. And overall, I was satisfied that his advice was suitable to Ms Rs needs. 
As Id already noted, Ms Rs client agreement said she would pay an initial charge in relation 
to investments recommended by Fairstone. In this case, Mr B was recommending that Ms R 
reinvest her portfolio to reduce her exposure to risk. So, I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Mr B to refer to an initial charge of 2%. 
I noted that in his recommendations report, Mr B said that due to Ms Rs longstanding 
relationship with Fairstone, they would offer her a substantial discount and charge a 
reduced, fixed amount of £500. Mr B later said the discounted fee would be waived because 
Ms R had been charged the previous year for her ISA transfer. 
I said I could understand why Ms R might have found Fairstones explanation confusing as 
Mr B was giving her new advice covering her whole portfolio, not just in relation to an ISA 
transfer. But ultimately it was Fairstones decision to waive any fee and Ms R would have 
benefited from that if she had decided to go ahead with the investments Mr B had 
recommended. I said that Ms R has suffered no detriment and I wouldnt be asking Fairstone 
to do anything further on that point. Having looked carefully at everything Ms R had said, I didnt think Fairstone had done 
anything wrong, and I was not planning to ask them to do anything further.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairstone said they had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. Ms R wanted 
to clarify a few points and said:
She contacted Fairstone to ask what was happening with her affairs after Mr A left the 
company. Eventually Mr B called her to ask, was I happy with the level of risk my 
finances were exposed to; and what level of risk would keep me awake at night? 
She didnt appreciate that approach. Mr B said her portfolio had drifted into a higher 
risk bracket and that should be addressed.
Mr B said the transfers he was recommending would be free of charge only after she 
queried the £500 fee and Mr B had contacted head office. He said he wouldnt charge for 
transfers from GIA to ISA which made her question previous advice from Mr A.
She would like to know where in Fairstones documentation they say they consist of 
organisations from diverse backgrounds. She thought the companys policies would be 
consistent across advisers, but it seems some advisers charge for GIA to ISA transfers, 
and some dont.   
She did understand that Mr B was giving her new advice concerning her whole portfolio. 
She was shocked that the funds she had paid to reinvest the previous year were all 
going to be sold down again and she would be charged to sell and reinvest them. 
She thinks Fairstones literature is confusing and new investment would be a more 
accurate term than initial investment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not seen anything that would change my findings on the suitability of the advice Ms R 
was given in 2018, 2020 and 2021. I dont think I could fairly say that any of the advice Ms R 
received was unsuitable for her needs. In making this finding on the advice Mr B provided in 
2021, I have taken account of the estimated ongoing charges of implementing that advice, 
which were almost identical to the charges Ms R was already paying.
Ive considered Ms Rs comments about fees, but they dont change my findings on the fees 
she was either charged (in 2018 and 2020) or initially quoted (in 2021). As I noted in my 
provisional decision, Ms Rs client agreement with Fairstone said that an initial charge would 
be made for their recommendation reports, research, other relevant services and the 
implementation of any recommendations. I think it was reasonable for Fairstone to charge 
initial fees for the implementation of the advice they offered in 2018 and 2020. In both cases, 
the charges were clearly set out in separate service and payment agreements that Ms R 
signed. 
Similarly, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to refer to an initial charge of 2% in 
relation to his annual report in 2021. As I noted in my provisional decision, I can understand 
why Ms R might have been confused by the later communications about reducing and then 
waiving the fee. But Ms R has suffered no detriment and would have benefited from the fee 
being waived if she had decided to go ahead with the investments Mr B had recommended.   I note what Ms R has said about the consistency of fees across Fairstones advisers and 
how those fees are described. Our service has no regulatory or disciplinary role, which 
means we cant tell a business how to operate or how they should charge fees. We provide 
an independent, informal dispute resolution service looking at individual cases on their 
merits. In Ms Rs case, I think the fees she was charged were fair and I wont be asking 
Fairstone to do anything further.  
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Ms R, but I wont be upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint 
against Fairstone Financial Management Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman