DRN-3555123
The complaint
Mr M complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a claim 
against his motor smart cover insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr Ms car suffered some damage to the rear passenger door in 2021, so he 
raised a claim. Red Sands sent an engineer to assess the damage, who said the door was 
badly damaged and couldnt be repaired by a minor cosmetic repair method, so Red Sands 
declined the claim. During this visit, Mr M says the engineer told him Red Sands would 
contribute £200 towards repairs done at a body shop under the policy. 
Later, Mr M had repairs carried out by his car manufacturer. He says they used a chip and 
scratch smart repair method that Red Sands should have carried out under the policy. He 
also says Red Sands failed to pay him the £200 contribution payment the engineer said they 
would. So, he complained. 
Red Sands responded to the complaint in February 2022 maintaining their position on the 
claim. They queried whether the engineer had advised there would be a £200 contribution 
payment, and the engineer says this wasnt the case. As Mr M remained unhappy, he 
approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Red Sands should 
reimburse the costs Mr M incurred in having the manufacturer carry out a smart repair and 
pay him £50 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. Red Sands didnt 
agree, and the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands declined the claim as the policy covers minor damage that can be repaired using 
minor cosmetic damage repair techniques. And their engineer that attended to inspect the 
damage said this couldnt be achieved given the level of damage present. 
The policy defines a minor cosmetic damage repair as a mobile repair technique which 
involves restoring eligible areas as near to the original condition as is possible. The policy 
also defines minor damage as, any Chip (for a Chip this is 5mm in diameter and 3mm in 
depth), Minor Dent, Scratched Area and/or Minor Scuff where the total damaged area is 
no larger than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in depth. 
Our investigator contacted the manufacturer that carried out the repairs to query the type of 
repairs undertaken. Ive listened to this call. The agent from the manufacturer says the 
repairs were completed without needing to take it to a body shop or remove panels  as Red 
Sands own engineer suggested. They were able to complete repairs by removing the dent, 
filling parts of the door, and painting it. They referred to this a smart repair. 
This suggests to me the manufacturer most likely completed a minor cosmetic damage 
repair, rather than needing to remove parts or request Mr M takes his car to a body shop. 
Ive also seen photos of the damage which dont suggest  in my view  it failed to meet the 
minor damage definition under the policy. And I havent seen strong supporting evidence 
that demonstrates this was the case in any event. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Mr Ms car suffered minor damage that was later repaired by the 
manufacturer using a minor cosmetic repair technique  which the policy responds to. 
So, Ill be directing Red Sands to reimburse the £333.50 Mr M paid for repairs (less any 
excess), as this falls within the limit per claim set out within the policy schedule. 
As Im directing Red Sands to reimburse the full costs Mr M incurred, I dont need to go on to 
consider what was said between Mr M and the engineer regarding the £200 contribution. 
Ive also thought about the way things were handled. Red Sands declined the claim based 
on their engineers report. Mr M was then left to arrange his own repairs and has been out of 
pocket since the repairs were completed in early 2022. Im in agreement with our 
investigator that £50 compensation is fair, reasonable, and proportionate in this case to 
recognise any frustration and inconvenience caused  as well as Mr M being left out of 
pocket. So, Ill also be directing Red Sands to pay Mr M £50 compensation. 
Putting things right
Red Sands must now reimburse Mr M the costs he incurred when having a chip and scratch 
smart repair carried out by the manufacturer, and £50 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold it. I now require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to pay Mr M £333.50 to settle the claim (less any excess applicable), and 
an additional £50 for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman