The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) allowed a transaction to leave his bank 
account. He said the funds shouldn't have been released by it.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr A stayed at a hotel abroad. Following his stay, he contacted Barclays and 
raised his concerns about some funds that had been removed from his bank account. These 
funds had been requested by the hotel he had stayed at, when he checked out of his 
accommodation. 
Mr A said he had thought the amount he needed to pay upon checking out was £369.48. 
And he said he had agreed for this amount to be debited. But, instead of this amount being 
debited  an amount of £2,339.35 had been taken instead. Mr A said he had no notice that 
an additional amount was going to be taken, and when the funds were removed from his 
account, he didn'tt have sufficient funds to cover the payment.
Because of Mr As concerns, Barclays raised a chargeback dispute about the funds taken 
from the hotel. It contacted the hotel to question the funds taken. The hotel responded, and 
provided information to show Mr As hotel bill, and the amount he owed to it. 
Barclays provided this information to Mr A. Mr A didn't respond to this information, or dispute 
that the amount of money spent at the hotel, based on the bill, was accurate. So, his 
chargeback request was unsuccessful. 
But Mr A remained unhappy with the way the funds requested from the hotel were taken 
from his account. He said the authorisation code provided had been to authorise an amount 
of £369.48, and not the £2,339.35 taken. Given this he said Barclays should have stopped 
the payment leaving his account.
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and didn't think this should be upheld. She 
said that Barclays had allowed the payment of £2,339.35 to be made - because this was a 
guaranteed payment, and Mr A had spent the funds at the hotel. 
She also said that when Mr A raised a chargeback dispute, Barclays handled this as she 
would have expected. So, she didn't think it had done anything wrong in allowing the funds 
to be released.
Mr A didn't agree. He reiterated that he felt the payment requested from his account 
shouldn'tt have been allowed to go through. 
Because Mr A remained unhappy, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
DRN-1398540What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Mr A has said that the authorisation code provided was for an amount of £369.48, rather 
than the figure of £2,339.35. He said that because of this, Barclays shouldn't have allowed 
the payment to go through.
But, to explain, when a payment is requested by a merchant, it is the bank that provides the 
authorisation code, for the funds to be taken. So, in this case, Barclays would have provided 
the authorisation code used. Ive thought about whether it acted fairly in authorising the 
transaction  particularly as Mr A said he thought this was for £369.48. And he said he 
didn't have enough funds in his bank account to cover the £2,339.35 he was charged by the 
hotel.
Having done so, Im satisfied Barclays acted reasonably in providing the code and allowing 
the payment to go through. Barclays would have received a request for payment of 
£2,339.35 and acted on this basis. It wouldn't dispute this figure, unless it could see a 
reason to. I dont know why Mr A thought the payment was for £369.48. He may want to 
raise this with his hotel.
The terms and conditions of Mr As bank account do explain what will happen in respect of 
requests for funds from Mr As account. They say;
If theres money, well make the payment. If you dont have enough money we wont be able 
to make payment unless its one weve guaranteed to make, such as certain debit card 
payments.
As Mr A said he didn't have enough money in the account to make the payment, Ive thought 
about whether the payment in this case was a guaranteed payment. Because as above, 
Barclays will still allow payments to go through where its guaranteed to make them. 
I do think the payment of Mr As hotel bill was a guaranteed payment. When Mr A initially 
raised his concerns, Barclays raised a dispute under the chargeback scheme. It received a 
response to this dispute  Mr As hotel bill  showing the funds Mr A had spent, and that 
explained the following;
I agree that my liability for this bill is not waived and I agree to be held personally liable in 
the event that the indicated person, company or association fails to pay part of the full 
amount of these charges. 
Given this, Im aware Mr A is responsible for the bill accrued at the hotel and had guaranteed 
to pay it. So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by allowing that guaranteed payment 
to go through. Or for providing an authorisation code for the payment. 
Mr A hasn't disputed the amount on the hotel bill. He hasn't said he didn't receive the goods 
and services on the hotel bill. Or, that he was overcharged. As the evidence suggested Mr A 
did owe the money, and Mr A didn't dispute the bill, Im satisfied it was reasonable that 
Barclays didn't pursue the dispute any further. 
I do recognise that the terms and conditions of Mr As bank account do say he can claim 
back funds where a payment is for more than he was expecting, for example in the case of hotel bookings. But these terms do highlight a refund can only be asked for if the payment 
was made in the European Economic Area (EEA). The payment wasnt made within the EEA 
 Mr A was abroad elsewhere. So, this request for a refund doesn'tt apply in Mr As case.
Given the above, I dont require Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. So, I don't require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman