DRN-1744920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the cover provided by their landlord home emergency policy 
with BIG Warranties Ltd (BIG).
 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs E took out home emergency and boiler cover with BIG to 
cover two properties. Its accepted by both parties to this complaint that they were told at the 
time of sale the policy covered both emergency and non-emergency issues with the boilers 
at the properties on risk.
In March 2019 Mr E called to claim on the policy for one of his properties. The boiler had a 
leak and a resulting low water flow problem. The claim was accepted for the leak, but 
declined for the water flow issue, as this wasnt an emergency. At this time BIG explained it 
had incorrectly told Mr E he had cover for non-emergency issues. It explained the policy is 
for emergency use only. BIG offered Mr E a partial refund of the premiums hed paid and he 
was still able to claim for the leak.
Mr E declined BIGs offer. He explained the water flow issue had cost him much more than 
he paid in premiums. He wanted the full cost of fixing the water level issue paid as well as 
his premiums refunded. BIG offered to increase the compensation by £50 to account for the 
mis-advice and refund all his premiums for this part of the policy, but it wouldnt cover both 
claims. So Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator awarded Mr and Mrs E an additional £100 in compensation but she didnt 
agree the non-emergency claim should be covered. In response to her view BIG agreed with 
the £100 and also offered Mr and Mrs E an additional £42.96  meaning they wouldve now 
paid nothing towards the policy despite their successful claim for the leak. BIG explained that 
Mr and Mrs E had paid a total of £150.36 for the policy, but BIG had awarded them £643.96 
including the refund of what had been paid. Mr and Mrs E didnt accept this so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2020. I set out that Id considered 
what Mr and Mrs E wouldve done if theyd received the correct information from BIG. 
Considering they had previous cover elsewhere, theyre landlords and are responsible for 
the up-keep of other properties, I was satisfied that if BIG had given them the correct 
information they wouldve gone on to buy cover elsewhere that did meet their needs.
I set out that Mr and Mrs E had asked for a full refund of their premiums (on their complaint 
form to us) and also to be covered for both their claims. But I couldnt agree this was a fair 
remedy. If things had gone as they should have, they wouldve taken out cover elsewhere  
so they wouldve always paid out for premiums. I didnt consider there was a situation where 
they couldve obtained cover for free, so I said I wouldnt be putting them in that position 
now.However I accepted they wouldve bought cover for both emergency and non-emergency 
situations. Mr E explained about the cover they previously held and I looked to see what this 
provider offered. They wouldve been able to obtain cover for non-emergency issues with 
their boiler  and considering the conversation when this policy was sold, I thought Mr E was 
looking for comparable cover. So I thought BIG needed to cover the cost of the non-
emergency work to the boiler, as its misinformation put Mr and Mrs E in a situation where 
they were not covered for boiler repairs that they wouldve otherwise been.
I set out that I was intending for BIG to cover the cost of both claims, but that it could deduct 
the premiums it had refunded Mr and Mrs E from this amount  as they wouldve had to pay 
to get this cover. I said I thought £100 should still be awarded considering the inconvenience 
theyd suffered by not technically being covered and having to seek new cover. I said Mr E 
should provide the quotes he obtained for the non-emergency work to his boiler and that BIG 
should average the quotes and pay this amount.
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs E accepted the outcome, but said they 
didnt recall asking for a refund and the claims covered  they just wanted the claims 
covered. They provided the quotes and these were sent to BIG for review.
BIG reviewed the quotes and responded with an offer. It said it had already paid the first 
claim in full, so it was just the second claim and £50 of the compensation that was 
outstanding. It didnt consider that Mr E or BIG would have paid the more expensive quote 
when a cheaper one was available. So it proposed to pay the remaining compensation and 
the cheaper quote, deducting the premium refund it had already paid.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the outcome, I dont consider I need to change the findings I 
set out in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
summarised above, as I consider Mr and Mrs E would have obtained emergency and non-
emergency cover elsewhere if BIG had provided the correct information, I consider BIG 
should also cover the cost of their non-emergency claim.
What is left to decide is what BIG should do to put things right. Ive considered what it has 
proposed in relation to the quotes. However I still maintain that paying the average cost of 
both quotes is a fair resolution in this case.
While I appreciate BIGs point about someone wanting to get the best value for money when 
they hire a tradesman, this isnt the only factor to consider. When hiring a tradesman I would 
expect the average consumer to think about more than just cost, so things like the quality of 
work, previous reviews, availability etc. So it is possible that while one of the quotes was 
more expensive, Mr E may have still chosen to go with this tradesman instead  especially 
as the boiler was in a property Mr and Mrs E rented out. As we cant know what wouldve 
happened now, I still consider an average is the fairest way to settle this case.
 
Putting things right
BIG Warranties Ltd (BIG) should:1. - Work out the average cost of the non-emergency repair, using the two quotes Mr E 
has supplied;
- Reduce this figure by the amount of premiums BIG has already refunded 
Mr and Mrs E;
- Pay Mr and Mrs E the remaining amount
2. Pay total compensation of £100 for inconvenience, less whats already been paid
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs E's complaint against BIG Warranties Ltd.
BIG Warranties Ltd should arrange for payment of the amount set out above within 28 days 
of receiving notice of Mr and Mrs E's acceptance of this decision.
Mr and Mrs E should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for 
additional compensation. If, however, they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter between them and BIG Warranties Ltd as to whether the 
above redress is available.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman