DRN-4248096
The complaint
Mr V complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund payments sent from his account which he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill provide an overview of the key events and focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision. I would, however, like to reassure both Mr V and Revolut that Ive read and 
considered everything thats been submitted to this office.
Mr V received a text from someone purporting to be the post office saying that he 
had missed a delivery and needed to click on a link to rearrange it. Mr V says he was 
expecting a delivery, so he clicked on the link and entered his card details to pay a 
re-delivery free believing this was necessary.
Around a week later, Mr V received a call from a scammer impersonating Revoluts 
fraud detection department. He was told suspicious transactions had been detected, 
one of which  a card payment for £25.98  had been successfully transacted. 
Under the guise of protecting his money, the scammer got Mr V to share a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) which they claimed had been sent to him by Revolut to initiate the 
process of closing his account. Mr V realised hed been scammed when he 
discovered two card payments  £1900 and £440  to a cryptocurrency exchange 
had been made shortly after he shared the OTP.
Mr V reported the matter to Revolut and it refunded the initial transaction of £25.98, 
which it deemed valid for a chargeback. But for the remaining two transactions, it 
said they were made using Apple Pay and as Mr V had enabled the fraudster to set 
up Apple Pay on their device by sharing the OTP, it considered the transactions 
authorised and didnt refund or raise a chargeback.
The matter was then referred to our service and our investigator was satisfied that 
Mr V didnt authorise the transactions. But they concluded that hed failed with gross 
negligence by not keeping his security details safe. The investigator also concluded 
that Revolut didnt miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Vs loss So, it didnt need to do 
anything further regarding the two transactions still in dispute.
Mr V didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), broadly speaking, Mr V 
isnt liable for payments he hasnt authorised, unless he failed with intent or gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security 
details safe. And Mr V is liable for payments hes authorised. 
To consider a payment authorised, the PSRs explain that Mr V must have given his 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction  and that consent must be in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between him and Revolut.
To establish the agreed form and procedure, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions 
that Revolut has referred us to. These dont set out in detail how Mr V consents to 
making payments using Apple Pay. They simply say that Mr V can make payments 
using his Revolut Card, which also includes a virtual card added to Apple Pay. So, 
Ive thought about what practical steps are needed to make these payments. It 
seems Mr V would have needed to use his Apple device and its associated 
biometrics to make the payments via Apple Pay.
Here, its not disputed that the transactions were authenticated correctly. But it wasnt 
Mr V who used the Apple device to make these disputed payments with the 
merchant. Instead, its agreed a fraudster set up Apple Pay on their own device with 
Mr Vs card details and then used it to make the payments. But Mr V didnt consent to 
these payments being made  I dont think he used the agreed form and procedure 
to provide his consent to them being made. As such, under the PSRs, these payment 
transactions are considered unauthorised.
Mr V could still be held liable for payments he didnt authorise if he failed with intent 
or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised 
security details safe. I dont find that Mr V intentionally failed to keep his account or 
security details safe. I say this because hes told us he was sceptical when the 
fraudster asked him to share the OTP. Mr V initially told them he preferred to call 
back before proceeding. Hes also said he considered messaging Revolut through its 
in-app chat function. These arent actions of someone who would intentionally 
disclose their personalised security details.
I do, however, consider that Mr V failed with gross negligence to keep his 
personalised security details safe. From what hes told us, he was aware the OTP 
that Revolut sent him was for setting up Apple Pay on an Apple device. Indeed, just a 
week prior he had received the same message (with a different OTP) when he was 
genuinely setting up Apple Pay on his new Apple device. Whats more, Ive seen the 
text message containing the OTP as Mr V has forwarded a screenshot. It says, 
Dont share this code with anyone, even if they claim to be from Revolut. 
I find that there were red flags  the OTP wasnt for initiating the account closure as 
the fraudster had claimed, and there was a warning not to share it with anyone  and 
they ought reasonably to have given Mr V cause for concern that his Revolut account 
was at risk. By his own admission, he was sceptical at various points during the call. 
In addition to what Ive already mentioned, hes told us he moved funds from his 
Vaults into his main account under the fraudsters instructions, but not before 
freezing all active cards. But the fraudster told him to unfreeze them, resulting in what 
he refers to as his greatest hesitation. Mr V has explained that happened because 
he understood the implications of someone having access to his card and the Apple 
Pay OTP code. While I fully acknowledge the fraudster had created a sense of panic, it is also clear 
that Mr V was sufficiently aware of the risks involved in divulging his personalised 
security credentials. I think most people in that situation would not have gone ahead. 
But Mr V disregarded an obvious risk by proceeding with the scammers instructions 
and that led to the money being taken from his account. On this occasion, I find that 
Mr Vs actions were significantly careless, and so hes liable for the disputed 
transactions. 
Ive also considered Revoluts responsibility to protect customers from financial harm 
when theres an identifiable risk that they might be subject to fraud or scam. While I 
recognise that Mr V lost just over £2,300 in two transactions, and I know he feels 
strongly that they were uncharacteristic for his account activity, I dont consider the 
transactions were that unusual such that I think Revolut ought to have paused them 
and made further enquiries. Considering Revoluts wider responsibilities as an 
electronic money institution, I dont think it ought to have regarded the transactions 
as suspicious or an indication that Mr V might have been at the risk of falling victim to 
a scam. So, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Revolut to have released the 
payments.
Ive also thought about Revoluts actions in relation to the recovery of payments after 
it became aware of the situation. As these were debit card transactions, the only 
avenue here would have been a chargeback. And given the merchant the payments 
were made to would have provided the service  conversion of money into 
cryptocurrency  even if Mr V didnt benefit from it, its unlikely that a chargeback 
would have been successful.
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr V. But in 
the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or reasonably be held liable for 
his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman