DRN-3130765
The complaint
 Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt pay his cheque for £10,000.
What happened
 Mr W held a current account with HSBC. It was dormant. Mr W paid in credits of £10,000 on 
26 October 2018 and £200 on 24 January 2019. Between the end of 2018 and early 2019, 
HSBC returned unpaid several cheques, each for £10,000. A cheque for £10,000 was paid 
on 10 April 2019.
Mr W complained. He said the cheques shouldnt have been returned, as he had money in 
his account to meet the cheques. And the cheque was for an investment in premium bonds. 
He may well have missed out on a prize as a result.
HSBC said Mr Ws account had been dormant for a long time, and so theyd blocked it  to 
prevent fraud. As a result, the cheques had been returned unpaid.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that all banks, including HSBC, 
sometimes block access to accounts which havent been used for some time  to prevent 
fraud. And Mr Ws account hadnt been used since 2014. Once Mr W had provided his up to 
date identification, HSBC had unblocked his account and paid the cheque. But  our 
investigator also challenged HSBC as to why the credits into the account has been allowed - 
£10,000 in October 2018 and £200 in January 2019  but why then had the cheques been 
returned? He thought that HSBC had acted unfairly and said HSBC should pay 
compensation of £150.
Mr W didnt agree and asked that his complaint be investigated by an ombudsman.
 I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
All banks have procedures to prevent fraud and these include the blocking of accounts 
which are dormant  when they havent been used for some time. They do this because 
such accounts are targets for fraud  where criminals may try to trick customers out of 
their money. And  Mr Ws account hadnt been used since at least 2014. And so  HSBC 
had blocked Mr Ws account. This led to the cheques being bounced. But  we found it 
odd that the credits of £10,200 had been allowed, but not the payment of cheques  even 
thought there was enough money in Mr Ws account.
So - I looked again into what happened here. Mr W also provided us with a further 
testimony - that hed visited a local branch of HSBC when he intended to write the cheque 
for £10,000 and told them what he intended to do. He went through some ID checks and 
ordered a new cheque book. He was then told by the branch that the cheque would be paid. 
This was in November 2018. We asked HSBC about this  and they agreed that Mr W had 
visited the local branch on 26 November 2018 - and provided ID and proof of address. So, 
on the balance of probabilities, it looked like Mr W did advise the branch of what he was 
going to do - and the account shouldve been fully reactivated then. But it wasnt.
As a result of this, HSBC offered compensation of £600 (instead of £150). We put this to 
Mr W, but he rejected this. In all the circumstances, we believe this is a very fair offer from 
HSBC and this provisional decision formalises this offer.
Responses to the provisional decision:
HSBC didnt respond and neither did Mr W. But  Mr W had previously rejected HSBCs 
offer (which was put to him before the provisional decision). So  we assume he still rejects 
the proposed compensation of £600. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC didnt have any comments. Ive considered Mr Ws letter dated 2 September 2021  
when he rejected HSBCs offer. Despite what Mr W said, I think that the compensation of 
£600 is a good outcome for Mr W, and is a fair and reasonable way to settle his complaint. 
And so  this is our final decision on this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.  HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay compensation of £600 to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman