DRN-3905599
The complaint
Mr S complains Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly declined his home insurance 
claim for a broken laptop.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr S added a laptop to his insurance policy. 
In the same month, Mr S contacted Tesco and logged a claim after he said he fell down the 
stairs and damaged the laptop. During the claim call, Mr S was unable to supply proof of 
ownership or any serial numbers off the laptop. The claim was logged but the advisor asked 
Mr S to visit a store where they could quote for the repair and give him more details about 
the model of laptop. 
Mr S says he was then robbed of the laptop in a park whilst walking to the store. Mr S says 
he didnt have an appointment booked as they were full, but thought hed turn up and ask to 
be seen. At that point Tesco changed the claim for damage to a theft claim.
Tesco looked into the claim and told Mr S that he could only make a claim for the accident. 
Tesco said that as the laptop had now been stolen, it would be unable to replace a broken 
laptop on a like for like basis. Tesco went on to assess the claim but declined it. Tesco said it 
was unable to check proof of ownership from the information Mr S supplied, and on that 
basis, they didnt agree to pay the claim. So, Mr S logged a complaint. 
Tesco looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Tesco agreed with the declined claim for 
the reasons previously given. So, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator agreed the claim hadnt been declined unfairly for the same reasons given 
by Tesco. Our investigator found the terms and conditions of the policy allow the business to 
ask for more information in the event of a claim and Mr S hadnt done enough to evidence he 
owned the laptop. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators outcome, so the complaints been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I want to clarify that I've taken into account Mr S detailed submissions about what 
happened. However, if theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
When Mr S took out his insurance policy, he was given a set of policy documents. The policy 
wording on page 7 of the booklet clearly states: 
If you and your family do not comply with the following claims conditions we may, at our 
option, cancel the policy and/or refuse to deal with your claim.
It goes on to say. 
"We will only ask you to provide information and assistance that is relevant to your claim. 
You must cooperate with us fully in providing such information and assistance. We may 
require proof of ownership and/or proof of loss (e.g receipts, valuations, photographs, 
instruction booklets, and guarantee cards).
When Mr S came to claim, he was asked for information to prove he owned the laptop. Mr S 
didnt have: 
any registration details with the company that made the laptop or their online portal, 
the serial or model number despite being in possession of the laptop, 
the box which wouldve evidenced the serial number,
a receipt from the friend who gifted Mr S the laptop,
any evidence of ownership from the shop it was purchased from,
any record of an appointment booked at the store for the repair on the day it was 
stolen, or 
and the picture Mr S did send the business didnt show him or anyone else with the 
laptop, the serial number or anything that could be used to link the laptop to Mr S.  
Mr S says he was told on the call when he added the laptop that he wouldnt need any 
receipt or photos in the event of a claim. Ive listened to the call and the advisor 
acknowledges he may not have a receipt but asks if Mr S has the box and advises that it 
would be useful to keep that, and says that its the kind of thing Tesco would be after to 
prove ownership. He goes on to say that pictures will help in the need to claim, and Mr S 
says he would go away and take some. The advisor goes on to say that sometimes they 
wont ask for proof of ownership but in the event of a claim more information may be asked 
for. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr S was told by the advisor that more information may be required in 
the event of a claim to evidence ownership.
Mr S has said he was told he wouldnt need receipts or pictures on a more recent call. Ive 
listened to the call with the advisor, and they told Mr S that normally they wouldnt need 
these - which suggests in some circumstances they might. Given everything Ive said above, 
Im satisfied that in these circumstances and with the lack of the information Mr S has been 
able to provide, I dont think its unfair that they have asked for more information to evidence 
proof of ownership before agreeing to pay the claim.
In my view the call Mr S made to the business which as far as I am aware preceded the 
claim was also used to gain information from the advisor. Mr S pretended that he wasnt a 
policy holder and was thinking about taking insurance with Tesco. So, the advisor was giving 
general information rather than that specific to Mr Ss policy, circumstances, or claim. So, I dont think any reliance can be placed on the contents of this call in any event.
When Mr S came to claim for the broken laptop, the adviser asked Mr S for the serial 
number off the bottom of the laptop. Its clear in the call that Mr S has the laptop in his 
possession but is unable to give this. A general search on the internet shows that most 
laptops of this make and model have the serial number on the bottom. So, I can understand 
Tescos concern when Mr S wasnt able to be provide this, or that his laptop didnt have one. 
Mr S has provided a photograph and says this should be enough to evidence he owned the 
laptop. The photograph Mr S provided doesnt have any identifiers in it. There is no person, 
no serial number visible on the box or laptop and no way of knowing where the picture was 
taken. So, I dont think Tesco could use this as evidence to show Mr S owned the laptop. So, 
on this basis I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that Tesco hasnt accepted this as proof of 
ownership and paid the claim on that basis.  
In summary and having considered all the information provided by both Mr S and Tesco, Im 
satisfied that the claim for the laptop has not been incorrectly or unfairly declined at this 
stage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman