DRN-4390050
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) wrongly applied funds held in its current account to settle the outstanding 
balance of its Bounce Back Loan.
As P is in liquidation, the complaint is brought on its behalf by its liquidator, albeit they are 
represented in doing so by the companys director and his solicitor.
What happened
P banked with NatWest, holding a current account. It borrowed £50,000 from the bank under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme in May 2020.
P went into liquidation on 22 October 2020. At that time, the company held £63,152.82 in its 
NatWest account. With no repayments yet falling due on the Bounce Back Loan and interest 
payments being covered by the government, it also owed the bank the full £50,000 it had 
borrowed.
Credits continued to be made to Ps bank account over the weeks and months that followed, 
taking the balance to £120,710.40 by 17 November 2020. On that date, NatWest transferred 
these funds to Ps liquidator.
A few weeks later, NatWest contacted the liquidator to advise that it had made an error in 
releasing the full account balance, from which it said it shouldve deducted £50,000 in order 
to settle Ps Bounce Back Loan. The bank asked the liquidator to return £36,371.63 so that it 
could now do so (with the intention to use the credit balance that had since accrued on the 
account to repay the remainder).
The liquidator refused to return the funds, initially on the grounds that doing so would 
constitute a preference payment under the Insolvency Act (i.e. a payment to NatWest 
ahead of other creditors of P, putting the bank in a favourable position). The bank disagreed, 
highlighting that the funds had been sent to the liquidator in error and that it had the right of 
set-off (i.e. that it could use any credit balances held with it by P to repay or reduce any 
amounts it was owed by the company). 
In response to NatWests further requests, the liquidator said that the money in Ps account 
had been incorrectly paid into it by the companys debtors. This was because P had 
assigned its book debts and work in progress to another company (T). So the liquidator 
said that the payments should instead be refunded to the payers. Payments continued to 
credit Ps account in the meantime.
With the matter unresolved, solicitors acting on behalf of T (and who are now representing P 
in this complaint) wrote to the bank in April 2021 and argued that NatWest should refund the 
payments as it had no right of set off in respect of the funds received after the date of the 
liquidation and similarly no right to use funds that didnt belong to P. 
NatWest rejected the arguments made by the liquidator and the solicitors, and proceeded to 
apply £50,000 of the funds held in Ps account  which by this time totalled over £90,000  to 
repay the companys Bounce Back Loan on 16 April 2021. The bank then paid the remaining 
account balance to the liquidator on 24 May 2021, but the account remained open and 
continued to receive credits before finally being closed in December 2021. 
What the parties say
Those representing P say that NatWest had no entitlement to use the funds held in the 
companys account to repay the Bounce Back Loan in the way it did. In summary, they say:
P sold all of its assets, including its debtors, to T on 26 September 2020. As a 
consequence of this transaction, T took an equitable assignment of the debts owed 
to P. So where payments were made to P rather than T in the fulfilment of these 
debts, those payments were held by P on trust for T. On that basis, the £50,000 that 
NatWest used to repay Ps Bounce Back Loan belonged, in fact, to T and should be 
returned to that company along with compensatory interest.
It would no longer be appropriate to return the payments in question to the payers as 
previously proposed, as those debtors of P have discharged their debts by virtue of 
the payments they made to Ps account and T would be unable to pursue them for 
payment. 
A bank cant exercise a right of set off where it knows that the funds to be used for 
that purpose are held on trust for another party. Ps liquidator notified NatWest that 
the funds held in Ps account didnt actually belong to P before the bank utilised 
£50,000 of those funds to repay the Bounce Back Loan, which precluded the bank 
from taking the action it did.
Moreover, it would be unjust for NatWest to capitalise upon and benefit from 
payments made by Ps debtors to the wrong account in error, to the detriment of T.
So P seeks the return of the £50,000 taken from its account along with interest on that sum 
by way of compensation for being deprived of its use, albeit that it ultimately wants to send 
this to T. The company also seeks interest on the balance that was released to the 
liquidator, which it says was subject to an unreasonable delay. And it asks that NatWest pay 
Ts legal costs in connection with the matter.
NatWest doesnt accept Ps position, and says  again in summary  that:
P didnt seek the banks consent to the sale or notify it of the sale at the time of 
completion. The terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan agreement required 
P to notify the bank immediately of any material adverse change in its business or 
financial condition. These conditions also said that P must not make any material 
change in the nature of its business without consent from the bank. And a significant 
drop in the value of the business could also constitute an event of default under the 
terms of the loan agreement too.
Insolvency set-off is mandatory, automatic and self-executory. This results in a net 
balance owing between an insolvent company and its creditor on the date of 
liquidation. As at the date of liquidation, P owed NatWest £50,000 while holding a 
credit balance of £63,152 in its account. Given the credit balance in the account was 
sufficient to discharge the loan debt, and insolvency set-off applied automatically as 
at that date, only the net balance (i.e. £13,152) was payable to P.The bank mistakenly transferred the entire credit balance in the account to Ps 
liquidator, without deducting the £50,000 to which it was  and remains  entitled, 
pursuant to the insolvency set-off rules. Its requests of the liquidator to return the 
funds that it mistakenly released were wrongly rejected on the basis that doing so 
would constitute a preference payment. It believes the £50,000 should not have 
formed part of the insolvency estate and that the liquidator ought to have returned it.
The argument that funds received into Ps account were held on trust for T was not 
advanced by P, the liquidator or the solicitors prior to the complaint. And it isnt 
appropriate, or fair and reasonable, to retrospectively argue that the consequence of 
the sale of Ps assets is that certain funds were held on trust and that the bank had 
notice of the alleged trust, and that it shouldve acted as if the funds were indeed held 
on trust, given that:
oThe actions of P, its liquidator and solicitor were inconsistent with the 
existence of the alleged trust. The account activity  including debit payments 
on behalf of P after the date of sale  suggest that the account continued to 
be used as Ps trading account for a period and, at least, trust monies were 
mixed with P monies, which is inconsistent with the existence of a trust 
arrangement. 
oNeither P, its liquidator nor its solicitor notified the bank of the alleged trust 
until 9 April 2021 (and even then, the points raised were somewhat 
contradictory as to whether the funds were held on trust or whether they had 
been received in error). Earlier correspondence had said that the funds had 
been paid into Ps account in error and that the funds belonged to T, but with 
no further explanation. And all such correspondence was sent over two 
months after the date of liquidation. There is a particular procedure for the 
holding of funds for another party, ensuring that all parties are clear that 
monies are being held on trust, which neither P nor its liquidator sought to 
follow. 
My provisional decision
I shared my provisional decision with the parties and their representatives last month. This 
explained that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint, set out the reasons why and invited 
them to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account before I made a 
final decision. I said:
Our powers are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the rules 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These require me to determine the 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And in considering what is fair and reasonable, I must 
take into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice, and  where appropriate  what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
I highlight this because, as Ive summarised above, both parties have referred us to 
matters of law that they believe support their case. And there are some particularly 
complex matters of law involved here, relating to equitable assignment, funds held on 
trust and insolvency (and how they might interact with or override one another). The 
question of who is legally entitled to the funds at issue  in consideration of all these 
matters  is one that only a court could make. Our remit is much broader, in that I am 
not bound to reach the same decision as a court would and with the relevant law being one of many relevant considerations in how I come to a conclusion as to what 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome. 
The complexity of the legal arguments and their centrality to the basis of Ps 
complaint also led me to consider whether it would be more suitable for the complaint 
to be dealt with by a court  being grounds on which we could dismiss the complaint 
without considering its merits. But I think I can reach a decision on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, while taking into account the relevant law and 
the arguments upon it that have been made by the parties.  
Turning then to the dispute itself, my provisional decision is that it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for me to require NatWest to return the funds at issue to P. Ill explain 
why.
As a starting point, P borrowed £50,000 from NatWest and it is fair and reasonable 
for that debt to be repaid. NatWest utilised funds held in Ps account to settle the 
outstanding debt, which it was entitled to do under the terms and conditions of both 
Ps Bounce Back Loan and its current account (using its right of set off). 
Those representing P say that the funds used by NatWest to settle the debt didnt 
belong to P given their equitable assignment to T, and that NatWest wasnt entitled to 
exercise its right of set-off over these funds being that it was on notice that they were 
being held on trust for a third party. Im not wholly persuaded that NatWest was 
properly made aware that the funds held on Ps accounts were being held on trust 
before it utilised them to redeem the Bounce Back Loan. It is argued that notice was 
given on three occasions:
On 21 January 2021, when the liquidator said that the funds had been paid 
into Ps account in error and are not funds of [P].
On 28 January, when the liquidator reiterated that the funds are not 
Company funds and instead belong to [T].
On 9 April, when the liquidator said that P does not have any interest in the 
funds received into [Ps account] since 22 October 2020.
None of these communications, to my mind, state clearly that the funds in Ps 
account were being held on trust. There was no reference to the prior sale or 
assignment. The thrust of the liquidators contentions was, in my view, that the funds 
had mistakenly been transferred to Ps account rather than being held within it on 
trust for another. There had also been no previous disclosure of the sale of the 
companys assets some months earlier, which  as NatWest has highlighted  P 
ought to have given in line with its obligations under the terms and conditions 
governing its relationship with NatWest that required it to immediately notify the 
Bank  if there is a material adverse change in its business or financial condition. 
Had that happened, the bank may have defaulted the loan at that point  and 
exercised its right of set off  which wouldve prevented events unfolding in the way 
they did (with the sale of Ps assets predating the companys liquidation). 
More broadly, I dont think I can determine that the legal position would deem 
NatWest to have been barred from utilising the funds in the manner due to the 
alleged trust arrangement. That is not a readily apparent situation, in as much as it is 
not a black and white position set out by statute but rather an area of case law which, 
to me, seems dependent on the facts of each individual case. There are significant 
differences between the facts underpinning the court judgement to which Ps representatives have referred me and those that gave rise to Ps complaint. I cant 
say with any certainty that a court would find in P (or T)s favour on this point. There 
is then a further question as to how a court would consider any rights or protections 
under the trust arrangement against NatWests rights as a creditor of Ps under 
insolvency law.
In any event, even if I were to accept that NatWest had properly been notified that 
the funds in Ps account were being held on trust for T, and then that a court may find 
that P was holding funds on trust for T and that NatWest was therefore precluded 
from utilising them in the manner it did, the broader circumstances of this complaint 
still lead me to consider that it would be unfair to require NatWest to return the funds 
at issue. 
As I see it, the debt only remained outstanding following an administrative error on 
NatWests part when it released the entire account balance to the liquidator on 17 
November 2020. Had things gone as they should have, NatWest wouldve debited 
£50,000 from the amount it transferred to the liquidator on that date  exercising its 
right of set off to repay the money P owed on the Bounce Back Loan with the funds 
held in its account at that time. There is no suggestion that NatWest was notified 
before this date that the funds in Ps account were being held on trust for another 
party. 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require NatWest to return the funds  
and in doing so, bear responsibility for the £50,000 liability given Ps liquidation  
when it was only by dint of an unfortunate error that the debt wasnt settled using 
funds held in Ps account at an earlier juncture.
Ps representatives have also suggested that it would be unjust for NatWest to 
benefit from payments made by Ps debtors to the wrong account. It hasnt been 
evidenced that the payments were actually made to Ps account in error (as Ive not 
seen, for example, that P told its clients of alternative payment arrangements). And it 
strikes me that P (or T) couldve done more to stop payments going to Ps account if 
that was the intention. In any case, I dont think NatWest is benefitting unjustly from 
payments continuing to be made to Ps account. I think the position that the parties 
have ended up in is the position in which they should and would be, had things gone 
as they should have  that is, Ps Bounce Back Loan has been fully repaid and the 
remainder of the funds held in Ps NatWest account has been released to the 
liquidator.
Ps representatives have raised further points around the time it took NatWest to 
release the remainder of the funds held in Ps account to the liquidator. I can see that 
there was some delay in doing so  and that while the ongoing argument as to 
whether or not NatWest was entitled to retain some of those funds to repay the 
Bounce Back Loan wouldve contributed to this, the bank couldve mitigated this by 
retaining only the funds it needed to clear the loan and releasing the rest. At the 
same time, and as touched upon earlier, P could also have taken steps to avoid this 
situation arising  the number of payments still crediting the account suggests to me 
that more couldve been done to direct payers to make payments to an alternative 
account. 
Ultimately, it doesnt seem to me that P  being the eligible complainant under our 
rules and therefore the only entity to which I can award compensation  suffered as a 
result of this delay. The claim has been submitted on Ts behalf, with the argument 
being that this was Ts money all along and that it has been deprived of its use. The 
same can be said of both any inconvenience and cost that has been incurred in pursuing the release of the money. The work in that respect has been conducted by 
parties acting on Ts behalf, with any costs involved therefore being incurred by T 
rather than P. I cant award any compensation to T.
So taking all of this into account, Im not currently intending to require NatWest to 
return the funds at issue to P or take any other action in response to this complaint.
Ps representatives replied to say, in summary, that:
They still thought T was an eligible complainant under our rules and requested a 
determination from us on this point.
It wasnt fair or reasonable to expect Ps liquidator to have been aware of the trust 
that arose automatically by operation of law such that he ought to have made 
NatWest aware of this prior to the banks utilisation of the funds to settle Ps Bounce 
Back Loan. Rather, it was sufficient that he had communicated the essence of the 
trust to NatWest, which hed done in explaining that the funds had been received into 
Ps account in error and belonged to T. 
It was acknowledged that I wasnt required to decide what a court would conclude as 
to the interaction between the existence of a trust and NatWests insolvency rights. 
Accepting the possibility that a court would consider NatWest debarred from utilising 
the funds purportedly held on trust to settle Ps Bounce Back Loan, it was then a 
question of what was fair and reasonable in the broader circumstances. On that 
question, four specific points were cited:
oId provisionally found that it wouldnt be fair to require NatWest to refund the 
£50,000 on the basis that it couldve exercised its right of set-off earlier but 
made a mistake in releasing the funds  but this overlooked that all funds 
received after the date of assignment were held on trust for T. This meant that 
NatWest had never been entitled to exercise a set off. Requiring NatWest to 
repay the funds would in fact return it to the position of every other unsecured 
creditor  whereas it stood to benefit from the mistakes made by third parties 
to the detriment of T.
oMy finding that there was a substantial credit balance on the account as at the 
date of the liquidation, against which NatWest wouldve been entitled to 
exercise a right of set-off, did not reflect their understanding. Without access 
to statements, they asked for conformation of the balance as at the date of 
liquidation.
oId suggested that P shouldve informed NatWest earlier of a material change 
to its business or financial condition prior to the assignment and that, had it 
done so, NatWest mightve defaulted the loan at such time. But without 
specifying when that shouldve happened, it was impossible to say what funds 
mightve been available for NatWest to exercise its right of set-off. But it 
certainly couldnt have used funds belonging to T. It was unfair for T to suffer 
any failings on Ps part. Any criticism that the assignment took place at all 
would be a matter for the liquidator to pursue, or possibly for NatWest to 
pursue, against P  and shouldnt entitle NatWest to retain funds which 
belonged to T pursuant to a valid and enforceable contract.
oContrary to repeated instructions to close Ps account in order to stem the 
flow of mistaken payments, NatWest appeared to have intentionally kept the account open and able to receive credits. So while it was suggested that T 
couldve done more to prevent the mistaken payments being made, it was 
within NatWests gift to have stopped such payments immediately  but it had 
instead sought to capitalise upon them, to Ts detriment.
NatWest replied simply to confirm it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question of whether T is an eligible to bring this complaint has been dealt with by way of 
a separate decision, so I wont comment further upon that here. This decision deals only with 
NatWests actions in respect of its dealings with P.
Ive reconsidered this complaint carefully in light of all that P and its representatives have 
sent in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, Ive not seen reason to reach a 
different decision. Ill explain why these further points havent changed my mind.
I remain of the view that NatWest wasnt aware that the funds held within Ps accounts were 
being held on trust for another. I take the point that the liquidator might not reasonably be 
expected to have understood the complex legal position, or to have communicated this to 
NatWest. But I do think it is reasonable to suggest that the circumstances giving rise to that 
position  namely the sale of the business  could and should have been communicated to 
the bank previously. I dont think it is fair or reasonable to oblige NatWest either to have 
accepted the rather vague submissions that the funds sitting in Ps accounts didnt actually 
belong to P, or for it to have to investigate that in order to establish the basis for this claim.
The question of notice is significant given Ps arguments, which are predominantly based 
upon the court judgement in The Royal Bank of Scotland pic v Wallace International Ltd 
[2000] WL 405. It is argued that if a bank knows the money held in an account is held on 
trust, and the trust arose when the money was paid into that account, then that bank cannot 
exercise a right of set-off over the funds held therein. My finding here is that NatWest did not 
know that the funds held in Ps account were held on trust for another. While noting that P, 
or others on its behalf, need not have explicitly stated that there was a trust arrangement, I 
dont think there was enough for the bank to have been aware that such an arrangement 
existed. I would also reiterate that there are significant differences between the 
circumstances of the case decided by the court to which I have been referred, and those at 
issue here  notably including the factors that could be said to have given rise to the bank 
being on notice of a trust arrangement.
Even setting this point aside, and again accepting the possibility that a court may find that P 
was holding funds on trust for T and that NatWest was therefore precluded from utilising 
them in the manner it did, I still reach the same conclusion that it would be unfair to require 
NatWest to return the funds at issue in light of the broader circumstances for the reasons set 
out in my provisional decision.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought the debt had only remained outstanding 
following an administrative error on NatWests part when it released the entire account 
balance to the liquidator on 17 November 2020. Had things gone as they should have, 
NatWest wouldve debited £50,000 from the amount it transferred to the liquidator on that 
date  exercising its right of set off to repay the money P owed on the Bounce Back Loan 
with the funds held in its account at that time. Ps solicitors queried this on the basis that it 
didnt consider the account balance as at the date of liquidation was sufficient to have allowed for this. But statements for the account show that the balance on this date was in 
excess of the debt owed.
Ps solicitors contest that it wasnt fair for NatWest to use the funds given that they belonged 
to T by virtue of the equitable assignment that took place in September 2020. Even 
accepting this transfer of ownership, I dont think it would be fair for P to be able to 
circumvent its liabilities in reliance on this transfer. In reaching this view Ive borne in mind 
that the two companies involved are owned and operated by the same people  and that this 
was, in the companies directors own words, a result of restructuring within the Group. 
I also said in my provisional decision that had P disclosed the transfer to NatWest as it 
seemingly ought to have done under the terms and conditions of its accounts, the bank may 
have terminated the loan  and exercised its right of set-off  earlier. I accept the point that it 
isnt possible to know what wouldve happened in this regard, as there was no set date on 
which such notice shouldve been given. It isnt determinative, as ultimately I reach the same 
view on the fairness of NatWest utilising the funds in the manner it did irrespective of the fact 
that if it had been properly informed of the transfer then it may also have been able to do so 
at an earlier juncture.
Similarly, while Ive now been given evidence that T did ask at least some of Ps clients to 
use alternative payment methods, that doesnt change my view. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I think the position that the parties have ended up in is the position in which they 
should and would be, had things gone as they should have  that is, Ps Bounce Back Loan 
has been fully repaid and the remainder of the funds held in Ps NatWest account has been 
released to the liquidator.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman