DRN-3160935
The complaint
This is a complaint that Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr and Mrs T.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy, which was taken out with a mortgage 
in 2007.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Quilter disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
When I reviewed the case, I reached a different view  I thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. I wrote a provisional decision explaining my view, so that everyone could have the 
chance to comment. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I dont currently intend to uphold this case. Ill explain why.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld because they couldnt see that 
Quilter had made clear to Mr and Mrs T that the PPI was optional. But Ive taken a 
different view of the evidence.
Mr and Mrs T havent actually said they werent given a choice  theyve instead said 
that pressure was put on them to take it, in that they were made to feel that without 
the mortgage protection we probably not get the mortgage. This could still be wrong 
and might amount to a mis-sale  Ill explain what I think about that, below.
As for whether it was optional, the PPI was set out in the documents as a 
recommendation rather than something compulsory. And Mr T was covered only for 
accident and sickness, and didnt take the usual additional cover for unemployment. So 
this does suggest there was discussion with the adviser, and that there was at least 
some choice about the PPI. If the adviser was wrongly telling Mr and Mrs T that PPI 
was compulsory, youd have expected the sale to have included the more expensive full 
PPI cover.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ts recollection that they were made to feel they 
wouldnt get the mortgage without the PPI.
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact 
words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily 
wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the 
adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Quilter did something 
wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this.
Ive looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might have been 
mis- sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case:
Quilter recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. Mr T (the person covered by the 
PPI) has said he was entitled only to statutory sick pay  so money would have run 
short quite soon, if he was off work sick for much time. Also, the PPI would have 
paid benefits at the same time as the employment sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr and Mrs T would need to fall back 
on any savings or other means they may have had to help pay for all their living 
expenses. This all would have put Mr and Mrs T in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to Mr T suffering long term absence from work due to 
sickness or unemployment. Ive also not been told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when they took it out. And I dont think its likely Mr T would have 
been affected unduly by any of the restrictions in the policy. So, overall, I think the 
recommendation of the PPI was a suitable one.
Mr T did have pre-existing medical conditions, and I dont know how well Quilter 
explained that this could have caused problems claiming  any claim related to 
these medical conditions is unlikely to have been paid out. But Mr T has told us that 
hed had these medical conditions for quite a few years before the PPI started in 
2007. And hes said that they were controlled by medication and they didnt affect 
his day-to-day life. So I think its unlikely hed have expected to have to claim for 
these conditions. And hed still have been covered for other sicknesses. So I cant 
see that better information would have affected whether or not Mr and Mrs T took 
the PPI, or that these made the recommendation unsuitable.
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs T would 
have understood how much it would cost.
Overall, I dont see that there is enough evidence to show that the PPI was mis-sold.
Quilter didnt make any further comments. Mr and Mrs T said:
They do believe they were given no options about taking the PPI.
They have suffered difficulties over the years, as a result of the mortgage that was 
recommended and the cost of the insurance. 
They are suspicious that Quilter has only provided some documents but doesnt have 
the ones that Mr and Mrs T believe would support their complaint  especially the 
mortgage application.
I asked the adjudicator to again request the mortgage application, but Quilter said that it 
does not now have those documents 14 years later. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive still decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs T said in response to my provisional decision. 
First, I should make clear Ive only looked at the sale of the PPI and not at the 
recommendation of the mortgage. If Mr and Mrs T are unhappy about the mortgage 
recommendation, they would need to bring a separate complaint. 
Ive also only considered what was foreseeable at the time the PPI was sold in 2007. Even if 
Mr and Mrs T did unfortunately experience difficulties later with the cost of the PPI, it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Quilter responsible for that, if that wasnt reasonably predictable in 
2007. Ive not got strong evidence that that was the case. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T are suspicious about some of the documents not being 
presented by Quilter. But I dont, myself, find it suspicious. There can be a number of 
explanations for this. And we have dealt with many thousands of PPI complaints, and it is 
common for there to be no documents at all after this long a time, or for only some to have 
been kept in various systems for this long. 
Also, Quilter wasnt the business that gave the mortgage  it just recommended it. So its 
more likely to be interested in retaining the documents that recorded what it recommended, 
such as the insurances, rather than the other supporting documents. 
Also, in my experience, it is rare for a mortgage application form to provide evidence that 
PPI was presented as non-optional. These forms, if they mentioned PPI at all, did normally 
present the PPI as a choice. The problem was more around what an adviser might have told 
the customer, about what would happened if they chose no  and as Ive said in my 
provisional decision, it can be very difficult to prove that something false or misleading was 
said. 
So my conclusion is still the same  I still cant fairly say that I have enough evidence that 
the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman