DRN-1992785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that TSB Bank plc didnt offer them a lower interest rate when 
arranging their mortgage.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs N were in the process of buying a new home. They had arranged their 
mortgage with TSB and received a mortgage offer with a fixed interest rate for five years. A 
few days before the completion of the sale, TSBs mortgage interest rates dropped so 
Mr and Mrs N asked to be put onto the new rate. TSB told Mr and Mrs N that, as it was quite 
close to the completion date, it couldnt guarantee the changes could be done in time and 
there was a possibility it may impact the completion of the sale. As they didnt want to risk 
the sale being affected, Mr and Mrs N went ahead with the mortgage offer that was in place.
Mr and Mrs N complained to TSB. They said TSBs mortgage advisor sent them an email 
telling them if the interest rate dropped before the completion date they would be given a 
new illustration with the new lower rate. Mr and Mrs N said they would be out of pocket by 
£1200 over the five years as a result of this new interest rate not being provided to them as 
promised. So, they asked TSB to either apply the lower rate to the mortgage or refund this 
money. 
TSB didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt refuse to provide them with the lower rate 
but that it couldnt guarantee the process could be done in time to meet the completion date. 
It reiterated that it was Mr and Mrs Ns choice not to go ahead. Unhappy with this answer, 
Mr and Mrs N brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think TSB had acted unfairly. She said that 
TSB was right to warn Mr and Mrs N of the possible impact on the completion of the sale if it 
was to make these changes. And she found it reasonable that such changes would 
potentially have taken more time than was left before the date the funds were required to be 
transferred. She said it wasnt expected of TSB to have to say that amendments may take 
some time and so didnt think it was necessary for the mortgage advisor to have put that in 
his email.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our investigator. They said the email was legally binding and 
as it stated they would be given the lower rate if it dropped before the completion date - 
which it did - they should have been given this.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In 
deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather 
than commenting on every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy 
to Mr and Mrs N. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in 
it.
Mr and Mrs N say they have lost out financially as a result of not getting the lower interest 
rate on their mortgage. What I need to decide is whether TSB acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when handling this matter.
Mr and Mrs Ns main issue in this complaint appears to relate to what was written in the 
email sent to them by the mortgage advisor. Ive seen this email and agree that this does 
state that if the rate drops before the completion date, a new mortgage illustration will be 
provided, to give Mr and Mrs N the lower rate. So, I dont think there is any dispute over what 
is written here. 
TSB dropped their interest rates on a Friday, and this was seen by Mr N on the following 
Monday. TSB said he made contact on Monday afternoon to ask about the new rate. The 
completion date for the sale of the property was on Thursday. So, Mr and Mrs N say they 
should therefore have been given the lower rate, as per the email. 
But TSB said Mr and Mrs Ns solicitor had already started the process of the fund transfer 
prior to the change in rate  and this money was to be released on the Wednesday. TSB 
said that to change the mortgage deal, the solicitor would be required to cancel this fund 
transfer request so that they could process the new offer and the funds would then need to 
be requested again. As there was only one business day before the funds were needed, it 
couldnt guarantee this process could be done at such short notice. TSB told Mr and Mrs N 
this and they decided not to make the amendments in case it impacted the sale. 
Ive thought about whats been said and, whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ns frustration at 
what has happened, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly here. Mr and Mrs Ns house 
purchase was already in the last stages, with the certificate of title already provided and 
funds requested. TSB has explained the process it needed to follow to change the mortgage 
deal and why this could have jeopardised the sale date - I think it was right for TSB to let 
Mr and Mrs N know about the potential risk if they were to go ahead. Ive noted that Mr N 
thinks the process detailed for these changes is unnecessary, but it is for TSB to decide its 
own procedures - it isnt appropriate for me to interfere in the way a company chooses to run 
its business. However, I think it would be reasonable for changes such as these to 
potentially take more time than was available to put into place.
The important point to bear in mind here is that TSB didnt tell Mr and Mrs N that it couldnt 
make the changes, but that doing so may affect the completion date. It is possible that, if 
they had decided to go ahead, the new offer may have been finalised in time. However, it 
was only right that TSB made them aware of the challenges so that Mr and Mrs N could 
decide ultimately whether they were happy to take that risk. So, Im satisfied TSB hasnt 
gone against what it said it would do as reflected in the email.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman