DRN-2370441
The complaint
Miss W complains that Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services 
approved a hire purchase agreement irresponsibly.  
What happened
In May 2018, Miss W acquired a brand new car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Black Horse. The cash price of the car was around £38,000. Miss W paid a £1,000 deposit 
and the remaining amount to be repaid on the finance was around £43,600. The agreement 
was for 49 months, with 48 monthly payments of around £550 and a final optional payment 
of around £17,000. 
In October 2019, Miss W contacted Black Horse to say she was struggling to meet the 
monthly repayments due to her splitting from her partner. She said that she didnt believe 
Black Horse carried out adequate affordability checks when it approved the agreement in 
2018. She said if it had done, it would have seen she couldnt afford the repayments on her 
own. 
Black Horse looked into her complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that Miss W had declared 
her salary as £29,000 per year which they had verified to be accurate. It said it carried out a 
credit check and estimated her living costs and based on this the agreement was affordable 
to her. Miss W said her salary was actually around £19,000 at the time and the dealership or 
Black Horse had input the wrong figures. Black Horse didnt agree and said it believed 
Miss W had declared £29,000. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He wasnt satisfied Black Horse 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. He said had it done so, it 
would have most likely discovered that Miss W was overcommitted at the time and couldnt 
afford the monthly hire purchase repayments. He recommended Black Horse end the 
finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss W. He said Black Horse should also 
refund all the repayments she had made minus an amount of £350 per month to account for 
the usage she had of the car. 
Miss W broadly agreed with the investigator but felt that Black Horse should also refund 
around £600 she paid to have a tracker installed in the car. She says this was the only way 
she could be insured. She also felt Black Horse ought to pay additional compensation for the 
upset they had caused. 
Black Horse didnt agree. In summary, it said:
Miss W had declared a salary of £19,000 on a previous agreement she had with 
Black Horse. But this agreement she had declared a salary of £29,000. She had also 
declared a different employer so it was plausible her salary had changed. It said it 
also verified her income with credit reference agencies which confirmed the declared 
salary was likely to be accurate. 
It modelled her expected living costs using data from the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) and took into account her existing credit commitments of £906 per month. It 
said it was aware Miss W wasnt contributing to her mortgage at the time as her 
partner had been making all the payments. It said this showed Miss W had sufficient 
disposable income to cover the monthly payments on the hire purchase agreement. 
If the complaint was to be upheld it didnt agree with the investigators recommended 
redress. It said fair usage should be calculated using the manufacturers guidelines 
which were 45p per mile. This would be in line with the approach taken with quality 
disputes for cars that are returned. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) states Black Horse ought to take into 
account a consumers expenditure and this is what has been done using ONS data. 
The FCA says it is reasonable to use ONS data for this purpose. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the FCAs handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss W would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss W 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Miss W has been disadvantaged in any way by Black Horses actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss W 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Black Horse were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ws ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needed to be concerned with whether Miss W could sustainably afford the borrowing 
(considering her specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. 
The latter, is the risk posed to Black Horse as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; andThe consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
The total repayable under the hire purchase agreement was around £43,000, over 49 
months with monthly repayments of around £550. This is a sizeable commitment over a 
reasonably long period of time. My starting point therefore is that a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been relatively thorough. 
Black Horse says it asked Miss W about her income, which it verified, it carried out a credit 
check and estimated her expenditure. I appreciate there is a dispute about whether Miss W 
declared a salary of £29,000 or whether the dealership keyed it incorrectly, either 
deliberately or by mistake. However, regardless of what happened, I dont think it makes a 
difference to the outcome Ive reached here. I say this because even if I were to conclude 
Miss W provided an incorrect figure of £29,000, I dont think Black Horses affordability check 
was reasonable or proportionate. Ill explain why. 
As Ive already set out, the financial commitment for this agreement was quite significant and 
over a long period of time. Black Horse says that it understood Miss Ws monthly income to 
be around £1,900 (or £29,000 a year). It said from the credit check it carried out, it could see 
Miss W was making around £900 in repayment towards other credit commitments at the 
time. 
Taking these figures into account, Black Horse was proposing to approve credit which was 
close to being double Miss Ws gross annual salary. On top of this, it was aware that with the 
hire purchase monthly repayment, her total monthly credit commitments would be around 
£1,450 or around 76% of her total income. This was a significant proportion of her salary 
which would be going towards credit commitments. It would have left her with around £450 
in disposable income. 
I realise Black Horse estimated her living costs to be around £340 per month using ONS 
data, but given the specific circumstances here, I dont think estimating Miss Ws 
expenditure was reasonable. I think it ought to have asked her for her specific 
circumstances. The £450 needed to cover her utility bills, car insurance and maintenance, 
food, household essentials, travel costs and potentially costs for any dependents. Miss W 
did have dependents and this doesnt appear to be something Black Horse took into 
account.
I note Black Horses own estimate (using ONS data) would have showed Miss W was left 
with around £100 per month. And even if I thought it was reasonable for them to have used 
ONS data in this case (which I dont), it appears they didnt use the correct estimate data as 
they didnt take into account Miss Ws dependents which would inevitably have increased 
her estimated outgoings. This would have left her very little (if any) disposable income for 
any ongoing maintenance and servicing costs for the car or any other unexpected costs. 
Black Horse says the FCA has said it is reasonable to rely on ONS data to estimate 
expenditure. While I agree the FCA has said this, it has also said that it isnt always 
reasonable to rely on it. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was 
reasonable here. So I dont think Black Horse carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. Given the size and length of the borrowing and Miss Ws specific circumstances 
around the size of her existing credit commitments, it would have been reasonable for 
Black Horse to ask about Miss Ws actual expenditure. Given the size of the overall borrowing, I do think it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate for Black Horse to have tried to verify Miss Ws income. Black Horse said it did 
do this. However, its given inconsistent explanations for how it verified her income. Its told 
us it checked what the average income for someone with Miss Ws job in her local area was 
and this showed £29,000 was likely to be accurate. But on another occasion, it told us it 
verified the income using an account turnover analysis service provided by a credit reference 
agency. As theres inconsistency and a lack of detail from Black Horse as to exactly what it 
did and what this showed, Im not persuaded it did enough to verify Miss Ws income either.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss W could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
I cant be certain about what information Black Horse would have found out had it conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks. However, in the absence of anything else, Ive 
reviewed Miss Ws bank statements from around the time the agreement was taken out. To 
be clear, Im not saying Black Horse were required to review her bank statements before 
granting the credit. However, I think these give a good indication of what Black Horse would 
have likely found out about Miss Ws expenditure at the time if it had asked her about it. 
I note that Miss Ws income was considerably lower than is recorded on the application. Her 
monthly income was around £1,400. Its possible that Black Horse wouldnt have discovered 
this discrepancy, if for example they had verified her income through a credit reference 
agency. This is because those checks analyse account turnover and it seems Miss W was 
transferring money regularly between her two current accounts which may have given a 
false impression that her income was higher than it was. So, Ive used the monthly income 
figure of £1,900 that Black Horse had recorded on the application. 
As Ive previously set out, Black Horse knew that Miss Ws credit commitments would total 
around £1,450 per month if it approved the hire purchase agreement. I note this was more 
than Miss W was actually receiving in income. But for completeness, I think Black Horse 
ought to have discovered the agreement was unaffordable even with the higher income 
figure of £1,900. 
Ive seen that in addition to Miss Ws regular credit commitments, she was also paying for 
utility bills, council tax, food, transport, childcare as well as direct debits for several insurance 
policies, a tv subscription and two mobile phone contracts. These regular commitments 
exceeded £800 per month and I dont think any of these costs individually were excessive or 
unreasonable. This means after taking into account the hire purchase agreement and using 
the higher income figure of £1,900, Miss W would be overcommitted each month and have 
more going out in expenditure than she had as income. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that if Black Horse had carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks  including asking Miss W about her expenditure  it would have likely 
found the agreement was unaffordable to her. I therefore dont think its made a fair lending 
decision and needs to put things right. 
Black Horse says Miss W maintained the payments to the hire purchase agreement until her 
personal circumstances changed in 2019. It says this shows it was affordable to her and only 
her change in circumstances  which wasnt foreseeable  has meant she cant make the 
repayments. While it seems that is what prompted the complaint from Miss W, its still clear 
she couldnt afford these repayments from the outset for the reasons Ive set out above. I 
dont think the repayment history is a reliable indicator of affordability as it only shows she 
was meeting this particular commitment, not all of her commitments. Nor does it show she 
was doing so in a sustainable way.  Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss W says she had a tracker fitted into the car at a cost of around £600. She says she 
wasnt able to get insurance without having it fitted. However, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to say Black Horse ought to refund this payment to Miss W. 
I say this because Black Horse didnt instruct Miss W to fit the tracker, nor do I think it was 
reasonably foreseeable that shed have to incur this cost. And in any event, its possible she 
would always have incurred this cost regardless of the car she acquired. So, I dont think this 
is a cost she has incurred as a result of Black Horses irresponsible lending decision. 
Miss W also feels Black Horse ought to pay her compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. She hasnt provided us with anything persuasive to say what Black Horse did 
wrong outside of lending to her irresponsibly that would warrant additional compensation on 
top of the redress Im proposing below for their irresponsible lending decision. For that 
reason, Im satisfied the redress Ive set out below is sufficient to put things right. 
Putting things right
 Where the business has acted unfairly, wed look to put the consumer  as close as 
possible  back in the position they were in prior to the lending decision.
As I dont think Black Horse ought to have granted the credit, it should now end the finance 
agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no cost to Miss W. I think it 
should also refund all the repayments Miss W has made except for a fair deduction for any 
usage Miss W has had. 
Im not persuaded that the monthly repayments on the agreement are a fair reflection of 
what fair usage might be. Particularly because those repayments will include interest which 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Black Horse to charge. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage might be. In deciding whats fair 
and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, her 
overall usage of the car (including the mileage covered) and what her likely costs to stay 
mobile would have been if she hadnt entered into this agreement. Having done so, I think a 
fair amount for Black Horse to retain would be £350 per month for every month that she has 
been in possession of the car. 
This means Black Horse should treat any additional amounts she has paid on top of this as 
overpayments. It should refund those overpayments to her, adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. It should also refund her 
deposit in full, adding 8% simple interest per year on the same terms. 
Black Horse says this isnt how fair usage should be calculated and that a fairer method 
would be to charge 45p per mile  as per the manufacturers guidelines. But I disagree. This 
is too simplistic in unwinding what has happened. It doesnt for example take into 
consideration the interest that was charged on the agreement (which I dont think Black 
Horse ought to be entitled to) or Miss Ws likely costs to stay mobile if this agreement hadnt 
been approved. As Ive said above, I dont think there is a perfect formula for working out 
what is fair. But Im satisfied the figure of £350 is a fair reflection of the usage Miss W had 
and reflects fair costs she may have incurred elsewhere but for Black Horses lending 
decision. 
Im not aware of Black Horse having recorded any adverse information on Miss Ws credit file in relation to this hire purchase agreement. But as I dont think it ought to have lent to 
Miss W, I think it should remove any adverse information from her credit file (if there is any). 
This is because I dont think Miss W should be disadvantaged by Black Horse lending to her 
irresponsibly. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Black Horse Limited 
trading as Land Rover Financial Services to:
1. End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Miss W. 
3. Refund all the monthly repayments Miss W has made minus £350 per month 
to reflect her usage of the car.
4. Refund the deposit. 
5. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3 and 4 above from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement. 
6. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation 
to this credit agreement. 
If Black Horse considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide Miss W with a certificate showing how much its taken off so she can reclaim 
that amount, if she is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman