DRN-3373905
The complaint
Mr S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) will not allow him 
to cash in his annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mr S had a personal pension with L&G. In 2010, Mr S chose to take tax-free cash of approximately 
£1,000 and an annuity of £174.24 paid annually.
More recently, Mr S asked L&G if he could cash in his annuity. L&G said legislation did allow annuities 
valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at its discretion. And it had made a business 
decision not to offer this to its customers. It said its terms and conditions didnt allow for an annuity to 
be cashed in and in the interests of treating customers fairly it wouldnt make exceptions.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought a complaint to our service. He has explained that a lump sum 
would be more useful to him than the small pension, and he has tried a number of times to get L&G to 
agree without success.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under 
the arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What that means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Ss position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, 
but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally 
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of 
their business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their 
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does L&G have discretion to commute Mr Ss annuity as requested? For example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mr S the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is L&G the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If L&G is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Ss best interests to 
allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If L&G was free to grant Mr Ss request to commute the annuity and doing so would 
have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for L&G to refuse? In other 
words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
L&G hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to allow 
Mr S to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr S to show that he would be worse off if he 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mr Ss told us and 
the value of his annuity, which is paying him just over £170 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is 
so small that it doesnt appear to provide any meaningful income on which he relies. I accept 
his position that hed benefit more from a cash lump sum, even if relatively small. For these 
reasons, and subject to the lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded 
also on the basis that it would be in Mr Ss personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether L&G fairly took into account Mr Ss interests when 
it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Mr S to cash-in his annuity.
L&G has told us it is unwilling to offer a cash in value to Mr S, essentially because the annuity 
product wasnt designed to be cashed in  and the terms and conditions didnt allow for it. It said:
-It cannot consider cases (and offer cash in values) in isolation without considering all its 
qualifying customers. It has a duty to be fair to all its customers.
-The legislation doesnt over-ride its terms and conditions.
-Its business model was based on annuities being lifetime contracts which couldnt be 
cashed in.
-It has remained consistent in its stance in recognition of treating customers fairly.
It seems to me that L&G could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat Mr Ss 
case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business the size of 
L&G. However, I acknowledge L&Gs difficulty here. Im not persuaded there is reason in Mr Ss 
case to treat him differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr S would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity 
isnt useful to him. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mr S 
had a right to. And while L&G was free to allow his request, Im satisfied it did have other 
legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact 
on L&Gs existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more widely and the 
potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for L&G to decline Mr Ss request. It acted 
in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr S in line with other customers.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future L&G changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Mr S 
may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say L&G must change its position at present, 
in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold his complaint.
Neither party had any further arguments. Mr S accepted the outcome. He explained it was 
what he expected but hed contacted us because L&G wouldnt enter into a dialogue 
about his annuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so I am writing to confirm that my final decision remains the same and as set 
out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for L&G to decline Mr S request. It 
acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr S in line with other customers.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S but for the reasons explained I cannot fairly 
say L&G should change its position on his annuity.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman