DRN-2097121
The complaint
Company C's complaint, in summary, is about a backdated premium increase by Aviva Life 
& Pensions UK Limited in relation to its Group Assurance plan.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them at length 
here.  Briefly, Company C took a Group Life Assurance plan in 2014 with Aviva. During the 
first few years, there wasn't much change to the premium.  However, in February 2019 the 
premium increased significantly. 
Following discussions with Aviva, Company C agreed to a reduced premium in March 2019 
(which was still higher than the original premium). Company C understood that this revised 
premium would be only for 2019. 
However, in April 2019 Aviva debited nearly £1,800 which it said was the backdated 
payment for the 2017 premium, based on the revised premium figure. Company C says that 
it only agreed to increase the premium for 2019 and that the increase should not be 
backdated to 2017.
One of our investigators considered Company Cs complaint. She was of the opinion that 
most of what Company C is complaining about is something we are unable to consider. 
There was one issue that we are able to consider and in relation to that issue she found that 
Aviva had done nothing wrong. Company C wanted her opinion reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the same 
reasons. There isnt much I could add to what she has already said. 
Our service can't consider every complaint that's brought to it. The rules that set out what we 
can consider are known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and are contained in the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
For us to be able to consider Company C's complaint we need to have jurisdiction to do so. 
To put it simply, we can only consider a complaint if our rules allow it. 
As explained by the investigator, a small business like Company C is able to complain to us 
from 1 April 2019 when previously it couldnt. However, it could only bring a complaint to us 
about an act or omission by a financial business that occurred on or after 1 April 2019. 
In this case, Company Cs complaint is two-fold:  1. Avivas backdating of the premium to 2017 is unfair because in its view it was 
essentially due to Avivas errors and omissions that this situation arose. These 
alleged errors and omissions are in the main:
 
Company C or its adviser were not told in 2014 that the initial premium was a 
discounted premium.
Aviva did not tell Company C in 2017 that this discount had come to an end 
and that would result in an increased premium. Had Aviva said so, the 
company would have shopped around for a more favourable term elsewhere. 
Aviva did not chase the company for up to date employee information in 2017 
and 2018. Had it done so, the issue of increase to premiums would have come 
to light sooner. 
In February 2019 when an increased premium was agreed, Company Cs 
understanding was that it would only be for 2019. Aviva did not make it clear at 
the time that the increase would be backdated to 2017.  
 
I see that all these alleged errors and omissions by Aviva occurred prior to 1 April 
2019. As such, unfortunately, we are not able to consider them for the reasons 
explained earlier. 
In this regard I want to make it clear that I am not making a finding as to whether or 
not there were errors and/or omissions by Aviva. It is simply that I do not have 
jurisdiction to consider those events prior to 1 April 2019 being complained about. 
 
2. When Aviva collected the premium in April 2019, it did not give Company C due 
notice.
 
This issue is more about how Aviva went about effecting the payment in April 2019 (as 
opposed to the reasons behind it as mentioned earlier). As this happened after 1 April 
2019, this is something I am able to consider.
As noted by the investigator, Aviva sent a letter to Company C on 5 April 2019 
explaining that a direct debit for the relevant payment would be taken around 15 April 
2019. An email was also sent to its advisor on the same day with similar details.  
Company C says that it did not receive this correspondence. However, it appears that 
the correspondence was sent to the right postal and email addresses, and in 
reasonable time. So I am unable to conclude that Aviva had made an error or 
omission in this regard. 
 
My final decision
I know this will come as a disappointment to Company C but my decision is that I am not 
able to consider some aspects of its complaint, and I am unable to uphold that part which I 
can consider. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman