DRN-4403847
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited provided incorrect advice to transfer his Armed 
Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS) in 1991. He believes that advice has resulted in him 
suffering a financial loss for which hed like ReAssure to recompense him for. 
Mr M is represented by a third party, but for ease, Ill refer to any submissions from them as 
having come from Mr M.
What happened
In 1991, Mr M was advised by a representative of Windsor Life (who have since been taken 
over by ReAssure) to move his defined benefit AFPS into a personal pension plan.
In October 1994, the financial services regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment 
Board (SIB), instructed advice firms to revisit their past defined benefit transfer 
recommendations to ensure that the business theyd undertaken was appropriate. In line 
with the regulators instructions, ReAssure say that they later undertook a review of Mr Ms 
transfer in 2001 and concluded that hed not suffered a financial loss. 
After discussing his retirement plans with a former Army colleague recently, Mr M realised 
that he may have lost out financially by moving his AFPS. So, he decided to formally 
complain to ReAssure through his representative. In summary, he said that he didnt believe 
the original advice to move his AFPS to the ReAssure pension was appropriate for him and 
he wanted ReAssure to put him back into the position that he wouldve been in, had it not 
been for their advice to transfer.
After reviewing Mr Ms complaint, ReAssure concluded that they were satisfied that theyd 
already looked into things for him. ReAssure explained that they wrote to Mr M at the 
address that they held on their records at the time of the advice from 1991, to undertake the 
pension review exercise that the regulator required of them. ReAssure also said, in 
summary, that for them to have completed a review of his AFPS transfer at the time, he must 
have completed and returned a questionnaire to them. And, whilst he may not remember 
completing the questionnaire, a review was undertaken, ReAssure say, which demonstrated 
at the time that hed not missed out financially.
Mr M responded to ReAssure, explaining that he had moved address a number of times 
since 1991, and that he never received any of ReAssures letters. Despite this, ReAssure 
say that they undertook a review of his pension in April 2001 and that showed that hed not 
suffered a financial loss. They went on to say that the outcome of the review was issued by 
letter on 18 April 2001.
Mr M was unhappy with ReAssures response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said that he didnt recall taking part in the pension review and, given that hed 
moved home on several occasions since ReAssures original advice in 1991, he felt that he 
couldnt have received their paperwork informing him of their intention of completing the 
review or the outcome of it.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that 
ReAssure had treated Mr M fairly and given that ReAssure were able to demonstrate that a 
review of the original transfer advice had taken place, that was sufficient evidence to satisfy 
that theyd followed the requirements set out by the regulator at the time.
Mr Ms representative, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they 
said that just because ReAssure could show that a review was completed, it didnt prove that 
Mr M was aware of the review having taken place or that he was involved in the process. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr M had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy, 
Mr M then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and ReAssure to reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and 
its largely for the same reasons as our Investigator. Whilst theres not really a great deal 
more that I can add over whats already been set out, Ill explain why below.
Ordinarily, because this case relates to advice provided in 1991, I would have to determine 
whether this service has the jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms complaint. However, ReAssure 
have consented to ourselves looking into Mr Ms concerns, despite the passage of time 
thats now elapsed. 
As Ive already explained, in October 1994, the then regulator instructed all businesses 
whod advised consumers to transfer their occupational final salary schemes to a personal 
pension, to evaluate the sale and check whether the recommendation was suitable. Those 
businesses were required to write to consumers who fell within certain categories to prompt 
them to get in touch to have their pensions reviewed. Those letters asked the consumer to 
complete and return an enclosed questionnaire if they wanted their personal pension 
arrangement reviewed.
ReAssure have explained that Mr M was included in Phase two of the review, which meant 
that they sent his mailing out in or around January to March 1999. To be part of the review, 
consumers had to return the completed questionnaire or request a review before 31 March 
2000. 
Mr M has explained that, because he moved house several times over the years, he doesnt 
ever recall receiving ReAssures letters or even responding to any paperwork. However, 
ReAssure have explained that they wouldnt have undertaken a review of Mr Ms pension 
had he not sent back a completed questionnaire. ReAssure have explained that, because of the passage of time thats elapsed since the original advice and the pension review work that 
was undertaken, the records they hold are limited, particularly given the original advice 
wasnt provided by ReAssure themselves. However, ReAssure have been able to share 
details of the outcome of the review which, they say, demonstrates Mr Ms advice from 1991 
was revisited on 18 April 2001. It also goes on to reflect that their assessment of his AFPS 
transfer concluded that no loss had been incurred. 
Whilst ReAssure havent been able to produce copies of the letters that they sent to Mr M, 
based on the evidence presented to me, Ive no reason to doubt that a review was 
undertaken. And thats because the output of ReAssures database matches Mr Ms 
personal details. There was much publicity at the time of the review encouraging consumers 
to get in touch with their provider to have their pension checked. And, for ReAssure to have 
undertaken a review of his pension in phase two, I think its more likely than not, that Mr M 
did contact ReAssure. Even if the letters were sent to a different address and subsequently 
forwarded to him, it seems that he still contacted them and ReAssure undertook the required 
assessment.
As Ive already highlighted, ReAssures assessment determined that Mr M hadnt suffered a 
financial loss. Mr Ms representatives dont believe that assessment was correct, but theyve 
not set out why thats the case. I think I should explain at this point that unfortunately, the 
assumptions that the then regulator required businesses to use  including for future 
investment returns and annuity rates  havent been borne out in reality. However, that 
doesnt necessarily mean that the original assessment that ReAssure did was wrong. 
I say that, because when completing loss assessments, the regulator required all businesses 
to use a prescribed set of assumptions, so calculations were completed to a uniform set of 
standards, regardless of which business undertook the check. Those assumptions were 
necessary because in many instances, consumers were decades away from retirement. The 
regulator then completed oversight and sampling of that work to ensure that it was 
completed to the appropriate standard, so I think its more likely than not that those 
calculations are likely to be correct and on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely 
than not that ReAssure sent those to Mr M at the time. I say that because having completed 
the assessment, I cant think of a plausible reason why they wouldnt do.
The assumed future growth rates that businesses used in the 1990s were much higher than 
they are today and unfortunately, they didnt mirror what actually happened. Despite this, the 
pension review exercise was a one-off undertaking and there was no requirement for 
businesses to either update or re-calculate the reviews that have already been carried out 
just because those assumptions didnt materialise.
From what Ive seen, it appears that Mr M did take part in the pension review exercise and 
ReAssure undertook the required assessment, so it seems that ReAssure did what the 
regulator required of them. As Mr Ms complaint has focused on whether he did or didnt 
respond to the review, I cant conclude that Mr M has suffered a financial loss and as such, 
Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint and as such, I do not require ReAssure Limited to take 
any further action.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman