DRN-3114294
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Aviva 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from late January 2020, Mr P had his vehicle insured with Aviva. The premium 
was about £560.00.
On 24 December 2020, his vehicle and a third partys vehicle were damaged in a collision. 
Each held the other responsible.
Aviva paid the third partys claim on behalf of Mr P. He complained to Aviva that he hadnt 
been at fault. His insurance was due for renewal and Mr P says he received higher quotes.
By a final response dated 22 January 2021, Aviva turned down Mr Ps complaint. Mr P 
brought his complaint to us in mid-May 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Aviva had done anything wrong by accepting liability of a fault claim on behalf of Mr P. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He did actually allow for plenty of room to overtake the third party.
The third party was driving at approximately 20mph when he began overtaking her.
But when she realised, he was in front of her, she accelerated and hit his rear 
passenger side wheel arch/door.
The reason the damage is not so deep is because he was driving at approx. 40mph, 
she must have been travelling a little faster than him to hit him. This caused a 
shallow dent from the few mph extra she accelerated to.
That made it look like he had broken Highway Code rule 163, which he did not.
This is also the reason his damage is so close to the rear end of his car.
She was actually trying to stop him getting in front of her, but she wasnt aware 
enough to speed up earlier, so she hit him.
She also said that a car was coming towards him, which caused him to cut in front of 
her. It was late night on Christmas Eve, there were no cars on the road.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most motor insurance policies, Avivas contained a term allowing it to decide how to 
deal with a claim from a third party. Its term was as follows:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in your name the defence or 
settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our own benefit to recover any 
payment we have made under this policy. We shall have full discretion in the conduct 
of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim.
The effect of that term was that  on the question of liability to a third party  Avivas view 
would prevail over Mr Ps. I will consider whether Aviva applied that term fairly in the 
circumstances. Unlike a court, I dont hear evidence from both drivers and decide the extent 
to which either of them is liable for causing damage or injury.
Aviva listened to Mr Ps report of the accident. He said hed been overtaking the third party 
when she accelerated and hit his nearside rear door. 
But the third party made a claim against Mr P and Aviva had to deal with it. She said that  
seeing an oncoming vehicle  Mr P had swerved left and hit the front offside of her vehicle.
Im satisfied that Aviva considered the nature and location of the damage to each vehicle. In 
the absence of independent witnesses, it weighed up the two versions of events. Aviva 
noted that Mr P had been overtaking. It took the view that  in breach of the Highway Code - 
he hadnt left enough room for the manoeuvre and had cut in.
Whilst Mr P disagrees with that view, I dont consider that it was unfair for Aviva to take that 
view. It decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of a court case  it would settle the 
third partys claim. Whilst that resulted in a fault claim on Mr Ps record and a likelihood of 
increased premiums for some years to come, I dont conclude that Aviva treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman