DRN-4048777
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lockton Companies LLP failed to arrange run-off cover for his business 
protection insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2014, Mr B took out insurance through Lockton to cover his legal liabilities arising from his 
profession. He renewed his policy each year, until 2019.
On receiving his renewal documents in 2019, Mr B informed Lockton that he was planning 
on retiring. Lockton advised that for run-off to be put in place, the insurer of the policy 
required an additional premium of approximately £21,000.
Mr B asked Lockton what the renewal premium would be if he continued working in a 
particular capacity, and Lockton provided a renewal quote of approximately £25,000.
In a telephone call and subsequent email, Mr B informed Lockton that he was making 
alternative arrangements and asked for a letter of good standing  which Lockton provided.
In 2022, Mr B received a claim against him. When discussing this with his insurers, he was 
told he didnt have run-off cover in place. 
Mr B complains that Lockton failed in its duty to advise him that he didnt have run-off cover 
and that he would need to have it. He was of the understanding that his policy included an 
extended reporting period and that the quote Lockton provided was for extended run-off 
cover which he didnt think he needed. Hes referred to a section in his 2019 renewal 
documents which state the run-off cover is included.
Lockton didnt uphold the complaint. It said the policy terms and conditions clearly set out 
that run-off cover  or the extended reporting period as its referred by the policy  is 
available under the policy but where a claim has been made during the policy period, which 
it had in Mr Bs case, an additional premium will be charged.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service, but our Investigator didnt think Lockton had done 
anything wrong or unfair. As Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Im aware that Mr B has also raised concerns about the policy being mis-sold in 2014, as he 
doesnt think the claims made policy was suitable for his needs, rather that he shouldve 
had a claims occurring policy. As this is a separate complaint, Mr B has been advised to 
raise this with Lockton in the first instance. As such, these issues will not be addressed in my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say:
Extended reporting period
If, during the Period of Insurance, the Insured dies, or permanently retires from 
private practice within the UK then provided that the Limit of Indemnity has not been 
exhausted as at the date of death or permanent cessation of private practice, the 
insurance cover provided under this Section A of the Policy will continue from such 
date for:
3.8.1 a period of 21 years subject to the Limit of Indemnity any one claim under the 
Policy and in the aggregate less all amounts paid and/or to be paid by the 
Insurer in respect of any Claim first made and notified or Circumstances 
notified during the Period of Insurance.
There shall be no additional premium payable for the insurance to continue under 
Clause 3.8.1, except as provided for in the Important Conditions for Section 3.8.1 
below.
Important Conditions for Section 3.8
Please read the following clauses carefully. Failure to comply with these conditions 
may result in Clause 3.8 of this Section A of the Policy not being accepted by the 
Insurer.
The Insured, or the Insureds personal representatives, shall provide the Insurer with 
written notice of permanent retirement of private practise within 30 days of such 
event, and of death within 6 months of the date of death, or prior to expiry of the 
Period of Insurance whichever is the sooner.
Within 30 days of receipt of such notification the Insurer shall, at their option, have 
the right to amend the terms of Clause 3.8, or to charge such additional premium as 
the Insurer deems appropriate, in the event of:
3.8.2 any Claim having been first made and notified or Circumstances notified 
under this Section A of the Policy to the Insurer during the Period of 
Insurance.
The Insured shall then have a further 30 days, from date of notification by the Insurer, 
to accept such amended terms or additional premium.
If at any time during the period described in Clause 3.8.1 above, the Insured resumes 
any form of work, paid or unpaid, which would have attracted cover under this Policy, 
then this Clause 3.8 is deemed to be cancelled from the date of resumption of such 
work.
Mr B had made a claim during the period of insurance so the run-off cover, which otherwise 
wouldve been included, was subject to an additional premium.  
When Mr B informed Lockton that he was planning to retire, it responded by email saying the 
following:The policy has been underwritten and held by [the insurer] since 2014 and we have 
now made them aware that you will not be practising from renewal and if we could 
place the policy into the 21 years run-off applied under your policy.
As per the terms and conditions of the wording as set out in section 3.8, underwriters 
have the right to amend the terms of Clause 3.8  Extended Reporting Period, or to 
charge such additional premium as the Insurer deems appropriate.
Insurers have advised that they have paid a claim which is now closed, with the total 
value of the claim at £138,954.
Therefore they have now suggested to us that an Additional Premium will apply in 
order to place the policy into Run-off. Please note, as the Extended Reporting Period 
(run-off) does not apply to the Legal Expenses element of the product, the additional 
premium to apply to have this put into place is: £21,704.78 inclusive of IPT.
This is in line with the policy terms and conditions above, so Im satisfied Lockton advised Mr 
B correctly and made him aware of the additional costs involved for the run-off cover. 
Mr B responded by email saying:
I was not expecting this amount. I think I will do some [particular] work. Please let 
me know the cost of the premiums.
Lockton provided a renewal quote, to which Mr B responded saying:
I am making alternative arrangements. Please provide me with a letter of good 
standing.
From the information provided, Im unable to identify where Lockton has failed in its duty to 
inform Mr B about the run-off cover. Its email is clear that an additional premium is required. 
And even if Mr B hadnt read the policy terms in full, the email refers him to it and provides a 
quote of what it said. So he ought reasonably to have been aware that there were steps for 
him to take in order for cover to be put in place.
Mr Bs email saying he is making alternative arrangements is clear that he doesnt wish to 
proceed with any options presented to him by Lockton. So Lockton understandably took no 
further action. 
Mr B refers to information provided in his 2019 renewal quotes which says:
Run-off  how does this apply to you?
Simple terms  run-off cover is where the Insurers provide cover and pay claims 
made against a business/individual after it closes and ceases operation, retirement or 
death. Claims for losses caused by a negligent act can be brought against an 
individual or business even if they no longer exist. There is no limitation on your 
liability to your clients and therefore no limits on the period of time in which run off 
insurance is required to be purchased.
How are you covered?
The quotation that is being provided includes an Extended Reporting Period (only in 
the event of permanent disablement, permanent retirement or your death) for a 
period of 21 years, which will be effective from the date of permanent disablement, permanent retirement or your death and will cover claims first made, or any costs and 
expenses incurred, and notified to the Insurers during this Extended Reporting 
Period. Run-off cover would not be automatically triggered if you were to move 
Insurance Providers.
You may need to consider your run-off requirements depending on the terms 
provided under the coverage of your new service providers
Mr B says this information led him to believe that the cover was in place as standard. But 
this isnt consistent with what he told Lockton at the 2019 renewal when he said he was 
making alternative arrangements. Had he said that he would rely on the run-off cover 
included by the policy, Lockton couldve clarified things further. But Mr B didnt say anything 
that would put Lockton on notice that hed misunderstood the options available to him so I 
cant fairly conclude that it shouldve done more here.
And as Ive explained above, Lockton did clearly explain that for this cover to be provided, 
his insurers were charging an additional premium. So even if I was satisfied that the 
information at the 2019 renewal was unclear or misleading which led Mr B to think cover was 
already in place, Locktons emails shouldve put him on notice that it wasnt. 
Im aware of the financial implications my decision has on Mr B, and I sincerely empathise 
with the position he finds himself in. But for me to uphold his complaint, I need to be satisfied 
that Lockton did something incorrect or unfair. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded by the information available that it has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman