DRN-4494022
The complaint
Ms V complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £111,000 she lost as part of 
an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Ms V fell victim to an investment scam beginning in April 2022 
after seeing an advert for a broker on social media (the scammer). 
Ms V was encouraged to invest and transferred around £111,000 from her Revolut account 
to her Skrill wallet between 19 April 2022 and 13 May 2022. This included the proceeds of a 
loan she had taken out to fund the investment, as well as funds borrowed from a friend. 
Ms V says her friend informed her at the time that there were warnings online saying the 
broker was a scam, but the scammer was able to convince her not to pay any notice to these 
warnings, so she continued investing. 
Ms V eventually realised she had been scammed when she was asked to pay significant 
sums of money in order to withdraw her profits. She reported the fraud to Revolut, who said 
it wouldnt be refunding the money she lost as she had authorised the transactions. Unhappy 
with this, Ms V referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He considered that Revolut should have intervened 
when Ms V attempted to pay £12,000 on 19 April 2022 as the payment ought to have 
flagged as suspicious. He thought that it couldve revealed the scam and prevented any 
further loss if it had questioned Ms V about the payment and warned her she was at risk of 
losing her money. As a result, the investigator thought that Revolut should refund 50% of the 
money Ms V lost from this point onwards, sharing liability with Ms V. Revolut didnt agree to 
settle the complaint on this basis, so the matter was escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2023. I said I didnt intend 
upholding it and set out the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms V authorised the disputed payments she made to her Skrill 
wallet from her Revolut account (where her funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammers from her crypto wallet). The payments were requested using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by Revolut, and the starting position is that 
firms ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Ms V 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate there would have been cause for Revolut to either provide a scam 
warning or even question Ms V about the payments in light of her payment activity. 
She sent three payments to Skrill on the same day (19 April 2022) totalling around 
£23,000, for example, which I think ought to have given Revolut cause for concern. 
However, even if Revolut had intervened at this point and provided a warning or 
asked further questions about the nature of the payments Ms V was making, Im not 
persuaded it would have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately 
prevented her loss in any event. Ill explain why.
Ms V has said that during the scam, she began to doubt the legitimacy of the 
investment when her friend showed her various reviews from Trustpilot indicating that 
the broker was fraudulent. However, Ms V said she spoke to the scammer about this 
and they were able to reassure her the company was legitimate by telling her that not 
all reviews are genuine. She said she had developed a trusting relationship with the 
scammer and so disregarded the warnings and continued to follow their advice and 
make payments. Therefore, given a warning from Ms Vs own trusted friend failed to 
reveal the scam, Im not persuaded a warning from Revolut would have made any 
difference either, as it seems likely the scammer would have been able to assuage 
any doubts she had, as they had been able to previously. 
In addition, even if Revolt had questioned Ms V further, Im not persuaded it would 
have likely received an accurate account of what was happening in order to provide 
Ms V with a tailored warning. I say this because, as part of the same scam, Ms V was 
questioned about the payments she was making to her Revolut account by another 
bank she holds an account with. It asked her why she was transferring the funds and 
she said that she was saving money. This was clearly misleading as she wasnt 
sending money to her Revolut account to save money; she was using it to send 
money to a crypto wallet. It isnt clear why Ms V wasnt upfront with her other bank, 
and it may be that she was coached by the scammer to give misleading answers if 
questioned, which can be fairly common in investment scams. But it leads me to 
conclude that even if Revolut had questioned Ms V about the payments, she likely 
wouldnt have given upfront and honest answers.  
I also dont think there was anything more Revolut could have done to recover the 
funds either given we know they were swiftly transferred out of Ms Vs crypto wallet 
and on to the scammer.
Overall, even if Revolut could have intervened in this instance, Im not persuaded this 
would have likely prevented her loss. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look more 
closely into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of Ms Vs loss in 
these circumstances, as it seems likely she would have continued to make the 
payments irrespective of any warning or intervention. As such, I intend finding that it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold Revolt liable for failing to prevent the scam.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Ms Vs representatives disagreed 
with my provisional conclusions. In summary, they said:
After realising she would not receive her funds and had been scammed, Ms V 
suffered from depression and was hospitalised. These vulnerabilities would have 
impacted Ms Vs decision-making abilities and rendered her extremely susceptible to 
fraud. 
Revolut failed to protect Ms V when it didnt intervene in response to unusual activity 
on her account. Had she been questioned by Revolut, a detailed discussion would 
have likely prevented her from taking out the loans or making any further payments. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Ms V has been through, and I do not doubt the 
impact this scam has had on her. However, it seems that most of the conditions Ms V has 
suffered from, which she says has made her vulnerable, were brought on as a result of the 
scam. i.e. she has said that she was hospitalised and felt suicidal as a result of the fraud and 
being unable to access her money. Therefore, this wouldnt have impacted her ability to 
protect herself from the risk of fraud before she lost her money, and I cant see that Revolut 
had been made aware (or should have otherwise been aware) of any vulnerabilities at the 
time either.   
As I set out in my provisional decision, I accept that Revolut didnt do enough to protect Ms V 
from falling victim to the scam as I do consider it ought reasonably to have made further 
enquiries and provided a scam warning. However, this doesnt mean it is automatically liable 
for any losses she incurred, as it would only be expected to refund the payments if its failure 
to intervene and provide a warning can be considered the proximate cause of her loss. 
Ms V says that a detailed discussion with Revolut would have likely instilled enough doubt in 
her to have stopped her from proceeding further. However, I have to take into consideration 
that Revolut does not operate in the same way as banks, as it carries out most of its 
interactions with its customers via its mobile banking app. So, I wouldnt have expected 
Revolut to call Ms V in order to have a detailed discussion with her as she submits. But, I 
would have expected it to make further enquiries through its app to seek to narrow down the 
purpose of the payment in order to provide a scam warning specific to the circumstances of 
the payment being made. 
However, as Ive outlined previously, Ms V was not honest with her other bank when she 
was questioned about what she was doing. Therefore, on balance, it doesnt seem likely she 
wouldve been upfront with Revolut either, meaning it wouldnt have been able to provide a 
tailored and impactful scam warning. So, Im not persuaded a warning from Revolut would 
have ultimately prevented the scam, not least because Ms V had already been warned by 
her friend and continued to make payments anyway. As a result, I dont think Revoluts 
failure to provide a warning can be considered the proximate cause of Ms Vs losses, as it 
seems she would have always gone on to make the payments. It follows that Ms Vs recent 
submissions have not changed the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms V, and Im sorry shes fallen 
victim to such a cruel scam. But in the circumstances, I dont consider Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman