DRN-4158302
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited recording a default 
on her credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account which defaulted in 2017 and then was sold to 
Cabot.
At first, Mrs L did not make payments to Cabot, so in 2018 Cabot got a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) against her. The legal costs were added to her outstanding balance.
Mrs L then did make some payments over the years. She feels that because of this, Cabot 
should stop reporting the default on her credit file and should instead record that she was in 
an arrangement to pay. She also feels the balance should not have increased. She asked for 
the account to be removed from her credit file and for compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Cabot bought the debt, they became responsible for reporting it on Mrs Ls credit file. 
Because theyre a separate company to the original lender, their entry shows up separately. 
But it is the same account as before. And because the account had already defaulted before 
Cabot bought it, and Cabot are required to report the accounts actual status, its correct that 
they show it as having defaulted. The account continued to be in default even after Cabot 
bought it  a debt being sold on does not undo the default.
I understand why Mrs L thought an Arrangement to Pay marker would be more appropriate, 
but Im afraid she is mistaken. An Arrangement to Pay marker is only relevant for accounts 
which have not defaulted. As Mrs Ls account did default, it cant have an arrangement 
marker  the default marker was instead the correct one.
So I hope I can reassure Mrs L that Cabot have been reporting this correctly on her credit file 
 they were supposed to continue reporting the default.
If Mrs L is unhappy that the account defaulted in the first place, she would need to raise that 
with the original lender rather than Cabot, as it was the original lender who defaulted the 
account in the first place. Cabot just continued to report this default, as they were meant to.
I also understand that Mrs L was confused about why the balance had increased with Cabot 
when shed made some payments over the years. Thats because when Cabot got a CCJ, 
the costs of doing that were added onto Mrs Ls balance, which is normal. Those costs were 
higher than the amounts Mrs L has since paid. Cabot have provided a transaction history 
which shows how the balance got to what it is now. If Mrs L wishes to dispute the costs of 
the CCJ, shed need to raise that with the court, as our service is not allowed to make 
decisions about things which have already been determined by a court, and we dont have 
the power to overturn court decisions.
Lastly, I will note that defaults only stay on ones credit file for six years. And this account 
defaulted in 2017. So it may have even disappeared from Mrs Ls credit file already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman