DRN-2920135
The complaint
Mr Q complains about the service he received in a Nationwide branch. He says he was 
treated unfairly because of his race.
  
What happened
In January 2021, during the third national lockdown, Mr Q went to a Nationwide branch to 
make an international payment. He was upset with the way he was treated so he 
complained. Nationwide considered the complaint but didnt think it had treated Mr Q 
unfairly. Mr Q remained of the opinion he had been, so he asked our service for an 
independent review.
The investigator didnt think Mr Q had been treated unfairly. He understood Mr Q felt he had 
been. But the investigator thought it was more likely the issues Mr Q experienced were down 
to misunderstandings rather than staff being obstructive, rude or treating him unfairly 
because of his race. Mr Q remained of the opinion hed been treated unfairly, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q says Nationwide treated him unfairly because of his race  in other words, he was 
discriminated against. Its not my role to say whether Nationwide has acted unlawfully or not 
 thats a matter for the Courts. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, I have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Nationwide has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, 
amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
I wasnt present when Mr Q says he was treated unfairly. Nor is there any evidence  such 
as a written record or call recording  which clearly shows that he was. Instead, I have 
testimonies provided by the people involved, namely Mr Q, the staff member hes unhappy 
with and the branch manager. Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as much of it 
is here, I must decide the complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened based on the information presented to me. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded Nationwide treated Mr Q unfairly. Ill explain why. 
I will start by summarising the versions of events presented to me.
Mr Q says: 
- He went to a Nationwide branch to make an international payment. He was asked 
what he wanted to do by a staff member at the door. He said to make an international 
payment and asked for the rate for pounds to dollars. She pointed to the post office 
and told him to go there. He questioned why this was necessary and said he doesnt 
bank with the post office.
- When in the branch the staff member said hed dropped something. He wasnt sure 
the item was his so he questioned how he should know hed dropped it. He was told 
it had fallen out of his pocket and the staff member threatened to call the Police if he 
didnt pick it up. He was shocked, asked what the Police had to do with the matter 
and reluctantly picked up the item. He found the threat of the Police unacceptable as 
his race is constantly targeted by the Police and he was fearful.
- He was ordered to wait outside the branch while it was decided if the international 
payment could be completed. Mr Q asked why he had to wait outside as he was the 
only person in the branch. The staff member said if he didnt go outside, he wouldnt 
be served and was putting her in danger. He questioned how he was putting her in 
danger, but eventually waited outside.
- Later, when leaving the branch, Mr Q asked the staff member if shed treated him 
poorly because of his race. She gave no response. When he returned home, he was 
distressed and told his wife what had happened. Following this, he felt the need to 
raise a complaint. 
The staff member serving Mr Q, whom Ill refer to as E, says: 
- When Mr Q arrived she felt a little bit uneasy as he was wearing sunglasses, a hat 
and a mask, meaning his face was completely covered, and he hadnt been invited to 
come in. She asked him how she could help. He said he wanted to know foreign 
exchange rates. She asked if he wanted foreign currency, he nodded, so she 
explained the branch didnt offer this but the post office across the road did. Mr Q 
asked why he needed to go the post office and following this, she realised he wanted 
to make an international payment.
- Mr Q put his hand in his pocket for his wallet and something fell out  maybe a tissue 
or receipt. She pointed this out to Mr Q and he kicked it away. She prompted, in a 
nice way, that he pick it up and he said she should pick it up. She explained she 
didnt want to as it had fallen out of his pocket and wanted to remain safe from Covid. 
She asked if he was going to pick it up. Mr Q said he was going to kick it outside. 
She said that would be littering. Mr Q picked it up.
- The money Mr Q wanted to send abroad was in a passbook account. He didnt have 
his passbook with him and given the size of the payment Mr Q wanted to make, it 
couldnt be completed without it. Mr Q asked if anything could be done. She asked 
him to wait outside while she found out. Mr Q was unhappy about this. She felt 
intimidated because of Mr Qs behaviour, that she couldnt see his eyes and that he 
wasnt social distancing. She explained because of Covid, the branch was limiting 
time spent in branch. Mr Q refused to leave and questioned how he could be made 
to. She responded to say if needed, the Police would be called to have him removed. 
Mr Q waited in the doorway.
- In the end the international payment couldnt be made. On his way-out Mr Q asked if 
she had a problem with him, to which she replied she didnt.
The branch manager was present during Mr Qs visit and says:- E asked Mr Q how she could help. He asked for the days exchange rates, so E 
asked if he wanted to get currency. Mr Q nodded so E explained Nationwide didnt 
offer foreign currency but that the post office across the road may do. Mr Q 
responded abruptly. E asked some further questions and established he wanted to 
make an international payment.  
- She didnt see it, but she heard E saying Mr Q had dropped something. Mr Q was 
quite rude to E saying she should pick it up. E remained calm and professional and 
explained Mr Q should pick it up as kicking it outside would be littering. Following 
some resistance Mr Q did pick up his rubbish.
- E explained to Mr Q he would need his passbook present to be able to complete the 
international payment. He was quite aggressive. E said she would check if there was 
anything she could do and asked him to wait outside. Mr Q refused to leave and 
questioned how he could be made to. E said if necessary she would call the Police to 
have him removed from the branch. As she started to walk towards Mr Q he went 
outside and she assured E shed handled the situation well.
- E directed Mr Q to the cashier as he said he would make the international payment 
from his non-passbook account. The payment couldnt go ahead as there wasnt 
enough money in that account. On his way-out Mr Q asked E, very close to her face 
and in an aggressive manner, whether she had a problem with him. E replied she 
didnt. E was very shaken and when later made aware of Mr Qs complaint was 
offended and upset.
Clearly Mr Q and the branch staff have different versions of events. And clearly neither party 
thought Mr Qs visit went well  albeit for different reasons. As I set out above, I cant be 
certain about what happened. But in my view the following is most likely:
- Mr Q wanted to make an international payment whereas E got the impression he 
wanted foreign currency. Its unclear exactly what was said, but I can see how a 
reference to exchange rates could lead to a misunderstanding. Thats what I think 
happened here. It follows that I dont think Mr Q being sign-posted to the post office 
for foreign currency amounts to an unfairness. Having said that, E says she felt 
uneasy. I think its likely that came across during this interaction and would have 
made Mr Q feel unwelcome, so I can understand why being sign-posted to the post 
office is likely to have appeared obstructive to him. 
- Mr Q doesnt say something didnt fall out of his pocket. It would be unusual for 
someone to say something had, unless theyd seen it happen. No other customers 
were in the branch so there doesnt appear to have been a more likely source of the 
item. And Mr Q did pick the item up in the end. So I think its most likely something 
did fall out of Mr Qs pocket. I dont think its inherently wrong for a staff member to 
ask a customer to pick up a dropped item, especially with the backdrop of the Covid 
pandemic. It seems largely accepted Mr Q didnt want to pick the item up initially. Im 
not persuaded E said shed call the Police about this though. I find it more likely she 
said he would be littering. Littering is a criminal offense, so I can understand why Mr 
Q might have associated what E said with the Police. I can also see why, off the back 
of their previous interaction, this issue may have become somewhat more 
confrontational than might have been the case if Mr Qs visit had started on a more 
positive note.
- Mr Q was asked to wait outside while enquires were made. Its true at this time banks 
 and other customer facing industries  had steps in place to limit personal contact 
because of Covid. But here the branch was empty, and I think its most likely E asked Mr Q to wait outside because, in her words, she felt intimidated, rather than because 
of Covid related measures. I can see why Mr Q, already feeling unwelcome, would 
have felt being asked to wait outside in the cold for no apparent reason, warranted 
questioning. I think its at this point a reference to the Police was made. Its not 
unusual for branch staff to say theyll call the Police if a customer refuses to leave. 
But here, Es manager was present, and interactions had already been strained. 
Referring to the Police was, in my view, likely an unnecessary escalation and one 
which Mr Q felt was unwarranted.
- Everyone agrees on his way-out Mr Q asked E about the way shed interacted with 
him. I think this shows he felt hed been treated unfairly during his visit and E might 
have answered in a way he felt dismissed his question. But I dont think theres 
enough substance to this point to make a proper finding on whether E did something 
wrong in her response. 
Overall, I think things got off to a bad start and escalated. And I can understand why Mr Q 
returned home distressed at what he perceived to be unfair treatment at his local branch. But 
Im not persuaded, looking at everything in the round, he was treated unfairly. I hope that it 
helps Mr Q to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman