DRN-2877270
The complaint
Mrs M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M took out a PPI policy when she took out a mortgage in May 1996. 
Mrs M paid a monthly amount of £13.93 for the policy. It provided a monthly benefit of £300 
if Mrs M was made involuntarily redundant. This would have been paid for up to 12 months 
per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy was optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account. Santander says it would have done this. But 
Mrs M says she was told the policy was compulsory and that she wouldnt qualify for a 
special rate if she didnt take it. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened 
when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Santander cases involving branch sales from 
around the same period Mrs M was sold her PPI. Using what I know generally of 
Santanders sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mrs M would have 
been given an option to take out the PPI and that Santander would have gained her consent 
before adding it to her account.
Mrs M says she was given advice and Santander agrees. That means as well as giving 
Mrs M enough information about the policy, Santander also had to check it was suitable for 
her. And based on what Ive seen, I think it was.
Mrs M was eligible for the policy and she doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having unusual 
employment circumstances. 
Mrs M says she was entitled to employee benefits if lost her job. That she had a life 
insurance policy in place and some savings. Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, 
but I dont think this means that the policy wasnt right for her. The policy would have paid 
out in addition to her employee benefits and potentially for longer. And she could have made 
repeat claims subject to a requalification period. 
The life insurance policy provided a different type of protection to PPI and would not have 
paid out if Mrs M lost her job. And while Mrs M says she had some savings  the PPI would 
have enabled her to use her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had 
at what could be a difficult time. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mrs M if she 
fell on hard times.
Mrs M says she thinks the mortgage adviser extended the term of her mortgage to make the 
policy affordable for her. I have thought about everything shes said, but I havent seen 
enough to say the policy was unaffordable for her at the time it was taken. And it could have 
been cancelled at any time without penalty if Mrs M found she could no longer afford it. So, 
taking everything into account, I dont think Santander was wrong to recommend the PPI to 
Mrs M.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mrs M all of the other information she needed. But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put her off taking the 
policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mrs Ms home. And 
the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Mrs M and I dont think she lost out because of anything 
Santander did wrong. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Mrs M has raised concerns about how little information Santander holds about the policy 
given it is still live. I understand why Mrs M might be concerned, but its important to note this 
complaint concerns the sale of the policy, which took place over 25 years ago. The policy 
itself is maintained by the insurance provider and not Santander. If Mrs M no longer wants 
the policy she would need to contact the insurer to cancel it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman