DRN-2600017
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Intrum UK Limited hasnt sent her a copy of the deed of assignment in 
relation to two debts it acquired in her name. Mrs R also complains that she is vulnerable 
and that Intrums requests for repayment have unfairly impacted her.
 
What happened
In 2015 Intrum acquired two debts in Mrs Rs name from another business. Intrum and the 
original lender sent Mrs R a Notice of Assignment for each debt, setting out the new 
arrangements. 
Mrs R made repayments towards the debts via agents appointed by Intrum, then via a third 
party debt advice service. Payments were made until 2019. 
In October 2019 Mrs R asked Intrum to send her information and documents in relation to 
the two accounts it had bought. Intrum subsequently sent Mrs R copies of the Notices of 
Assignment along with credit agreements and statements for both accounts. 
Mrs R also asked Intrum for copies of the Deed of Assignment for each debt. But Intrum 
refused and said the information it had already provided was sufficient to show it had 
acquired debts in her name. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Intrum had dealt with Mrs Rs complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mrs R asked to appeal and said she had also complained to the original lender that it had 
lent irresponsibly. Mrs R has advised that the original lender upheld her complaint and 
recalled the larger of the two debts from Intrum, writing off the outstanding balance. But Mrs 
R says Intrum is still pursuing her for the remaining debt and that its actions are unfair. Mrs 
R asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background for Mrs Rs complaint because all 
parties broadly agree concerning whats happened. Mrs R has told us some very personal 
information about the circumstances leading up to her complaint. Id like to thank Mrs R for 
telling us about her situation and the difficulties shes faced. I havent referred to them 
specifically because our decisions are published, but Id like to assure Mrs R that Ive read 
and considered everything shes told us when bringing the complaint. 
Mrs R has asked Intrum to send her a Deed of Assignment for each of the debts it acquired. 
Intrum says it doesnt have to send Deeds of Assignment to Mrs R. But Intrum has sent Mrs 
R copies of the credit agreements it obtained from the original lender, statements showing 
the payments she made and Notices of Assignment from 2015 when it acquired the 
accounts in question. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, but Im satisfied Intrum has provided 
sufficient information to show that in 2015 it acquired debts Mrs R took out with the original 
lender. Whilst I understand Mrs R wants to see the Deed of Assignments, Im not persuaded 
Intrums refusal means its requests for repayment are unfair. Im satisfied Intrum has a 
legitimate reason to request payments from Mrs R. I havent found that Intrum has treated 
Mrs R unfairly by asking her to repay the debts it acquired in her name.  
I can see Mrs R has been through a very difficult time. Where businesses are aware that a 
customer is experiencing financial difficulties or in a vulnerable position, they have to treat 
them positively and sympathetically. But doesnt mean a business has to write off a debt. I 
understand Mrs R has made Intrum aware of her circumstances and that, last year, it agreed 
to freeze arrears on the accounts. Intrum also asked Mrs R to get in touch and provide 
income and expenditure information to see if it could reach an affordable repayment 
arrangement. In addition, Intrum referred Mrs R to third party services that can provide 
advice to consumers. 
In my view, Intrum has acted positively and sympathetically when dealing with Mrs R. I 
havent found that Intrum treated Mrs R unfairly. 
In response to the investigator, Mrs R said the original lender has upheld complaints she has 
made about the debts Intrum acquired. Mrs R has told us the larger debt was recalled by the 
original lender but that the other account remains with Intrum. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R 
but I can only look at Intrums actions in this case and Im satisfied that it did acquire debts in 
her name and that its contact with her, requesting payments, has been fair and reasonable. 
As I havent found Intrum has treated Mrs R unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman