DRN-3453339
The complaint
Mr A complains that AA Insurance Services mis-sold him a motor breakdown policy when he 
actually needed national recovery cover for his car.
What happened
Mr As car broke down on a motorway. He told the advisor that he had to get home for 
medical reasons - and that he wanted the car to be taken to his local garage (90 miles 
away). Mr A was sold AA membership and a breakdown policy that covered a patrol taking 
the car to a place of safety, trying to repair it - and if necessary, taking it to a local garage. 
The advisor said if the car had to be recovered home Mr A could discuss it with the patrol, 
who might be able to tow the car - for an extra charge. 
When it emerged later that the car couldnt be repaired by the patrol, Mr A asked about the 
car being recovered home. The patrol said it wasnt an option, so Mr A had to call AA to buy 
national recovery cover for the car and its passengers. He says AA told him later that only 
the car would be recovered home, so a relative had to collect him and his passengers. 
Mr A complained to AA about many aspects of its service that day - including during the 
various calls he made to it - and it paid him £125 compensation. We arent able to consider 
the service aspects of his complaint, as that doesnt fall within our remit. So when Mr A 
complained to us, one of our investigators told him that we would only consider whether AA 
had mis-sold the breakdown policy and the national recovery upgrade. 
The investigator said Mr A had made it clear during the sales call that he wanted recovery 
home - and the advisor had wrongly told him the patrol might be able to do that. As Mr A 
didnt get what hed asked for, the investigator thought the policy (and the upgrade) were 
mis-sold, so he said AA should refund all the charges it had made.
AA said Mr As car was delivered home, so the upgrade on the policy wasnt mis-sold. It also 
said that during the initial sales call, the advisor couldnt have known the car wouldnt be 
repaired at the roadside, and its advisors dont upsell recovery cover. AA also pointed out 
that it doesnt offer a stand-alone recovery service. AA accepted that the advisor was wrong 
to tell Mr A the patrol might take his car home. But it said the advisor had also told Mr A that 
it would cost more for home recovery. AA didnt think it should provide a full refund of the 
policy, but it offered to refund the premiums paid - minus the £125 it had already paid Mr A.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional opinion, not upholding the complaint, as follows: 
I think the advisor provided poor service to Mr A by telling him in error that the patrol may be 
able to take his car home, but I dont think that means the policy was mis-sold. Mr A called 
for help from a motorway with a view to getting his car and its passengers home. AA doesnt 
offer stand-alone recovery cover, so he was offered breakdown cover (being taken to a 
place of safety, an assessment / repair of the car, and delivery to a nearby garage). When 
Mr A asked about home recovery, he was told thered be an extra charge if it was required. 
Although I think the advisor should have been clearer about that option, the breakdown 
cover was explained to Mr A. He could have said he wasnt interested in an attempt to repair 
the car  only in its recovery home. But I think he seemed content with what was on offer at 
the time - with recovery home an option if needed (subject to a further charge). 
I think had Mr A had been given clearer information by the advisor (that if the car couldnt be 
fixed at the roadside, and if he didnt want to use the nearest garage, hed have to buy 
national recovery cover) Mr A would still have bought the breakdown policy. The cover 
provided by that policy may have meant the car didnt need to be recovered, so Mr A could 
have driven home and would have been saved further expense. I think hed already 
accepted that hed have to pay more should recovery home be needed, as he was told up 
front that thered be an extra charge for that. Mr A didnt query it - and he didnt have to pay 
more for it later on than hed have had to pay for it during the first call. So I dont think he lost 
out financially by buying the upgrade when he did.
In my opinion, the recovery cover wasnt mis-sold either. Once it was established that the car 
couldnt be fixed, Mr A wanted to get the car and his passengers home as soon as possible. 
The upgrade provided for that. Unfortunately, service issues meant the collection and 
delivery of Mr As car were delayed. But I think he still got the benefit of the policy, as the car 
was eventually delivered to his local garage.
The policy also covered transporting up to seven people home, but that didnt happen. Ive 
listened to the relevant call, and its clear that Mr A could have had the benefit of that part of 
the policy too, had he not asked a relative to collect his passengers before a recovery 
vehicle was instructed. I appreciate that Mr A only contacted a family member for help 
because he and his passengers had been waiting so long for recovery. I think thats 
understandable, but in my opinion, it doesnt show that the policy was mis-sold.  
I have great sympathy for Mr A given the situation he had to cope with on the day of the 
breakdown. But I cant address the service concerns Mr A has raised, and as I dont think 
the breakdown policy or the recovery upgrade were mis-sold, I cant uphold his complaint.      
   
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. AA accepted them. Mr A said he 
asked a relative to collect him and his passengers as AA had said it would only take the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent heard anything in the calls to show that AA told Mr A only the car would be 
recovered. When he bought the recovery policy, the advisor said it covered the car and 
seven passengers and that they would all be taken home. As far as I can see, because of 
the undue delay in the recovery, Mr A contacted a relative to transport him and the 
passengers home. When he told an advisor about that in a later call, the advisor said it may 
then take longer to get the car transported to Mr As garage  up to 72 hours. 
Im still of the view that neither of the policies was mis-sold to Mr A. I can see why he was so 
upset by his experiences on the day of the breakdown, but as I think that was due to service 
issues, which fall outside our remit, Im not able to address them.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman