DRN-3322250
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt help recover money he lost to an 
investment scam. He also complains that Lloyds didnt warn him about the potential risk of 
fraud when he made the payments.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In summary, in April 2015, Mr P came across an advertisement for a binary options trading 
broker called OptionsXO. He left his contact details and was subsequently telephoned by a 
representative who sold him an investment opportunity. 
Mr P started with an initial deposit of £500 on 27 April 2015 which he paid using his Lloyds 
debit card. By the end of 2016, he had sent over £450,000 through debit card transactions 
and international payments from his bank account. Mr P says he was persuaded by his 
account manager at OptionsXO to invest more money after seeing the profits that were 
supposedly being made. And later, when his trades made losses, he was persuaded to 
deposit money to recover his investment. 
In July 2019, Mr P contacted Lloyds and asked for its assistance in recovering the money. 
He said that hed been tricked by fraudsters in sending large sums of money between 2015 
and 2017. Mr P also said that hed engaged the service of a firm to recover the funds, but it 
also turned out to be a fraudster. 
Lloyds declined to refund the money he lost and said that hed authorised the payments, so 
no error had been made on its part. Lloyds said it would contact the beneficiary banks for the 
international payments and request a recall on a best endeavours basis. But given the time 
that had lapsed, recovery was unlikely.
Our investigator ultimately concluded that Lloyds wasnt the primary cause for Mr Ps losses. 
So, he didnt think that it should be held responsible. Mr P didnt agree, and the complaint 
was escalated to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the information Ive found during my research on OptionsXO, Im satisfied that it 
wasnt a legitimate trader. It wasnt regulated (as required) by the Gambling Commission 
when it contracted with Mr P. There are also alerts published about it on the Investors Alerts 
Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the 
international body that brings together the worlds securities regulators. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mr P using his legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which Mr P is liable unless 
theres evidence that Lloyds could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, 
and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Lloyds ought to have 
been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, 
to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper Banks 
Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it 
was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated watch-list of types of scams 
and potential scammers; and to regularly share timely and detailed intelligence with other 
banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police etc.
While the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be updated, 
its not unreasonable to expect an international bank, like Lloyds, to update those lists, and 
communicate with staff, within a month of an alert being published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) or IOSCO. In my judgement, such alerts should automatically trigger the 
banks fraud prevention systems and lead to payments being paused, pending further 
intervention  such as making enquiries of the customer about the payment or giving a scam 
warning.
Here, there were IOSCO alerts about OptionsXO published by: the Ontario Securities 
Commission on 25 November 2014; the Financial Services and Markets Authority in Belgium 
on 19 December 2014; and the Financial Market Authority on 11 February 2015. These 
alerts were published more than a month before Mr P made his first payment to OptionsXO. 
The alert from the Belgian regulator specifically referred to binary options and forex trading. 
Given the timing of these and when Mr P made his first payment, Lloyds ought to have 
automatically blocked it pending further checks  in my view it had sufficient time to update 
its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a 
legitimate merchant. 
It would have also been reasonable for Lloyds to have asked Mr P appropriate probing 
questions before releasing the payment. According to the information Lloyds has provided, 
the first time it contacted Mr P to question a payment to OptionsXO was in April 2016 when 
he confirmed it was genuine. This was a year after he made the first payment. So, an 
opportunity to intervene earlier was missed. But this is not the end of the matter.Causation is a critical determinative factor in every fraud case. It isnt enough that a payment 
service provider failed to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions must be the 
immediate and effective cause of losses that were reasonably foreseeable at the time of the 
breach. So, while I consider that Lloyds missed an opportunity to intervene, this doesnt 
make it automatically responsible for Mr Ps loss. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
breach would have made a difference to Mr Ps decision-making. 
I cant know for certain what would have happened if Lloyds had contacted Mr P about the 
initial payment before executing it. In such situations, I reach my conclusions not based on 
mere possibilities but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the 
circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  
so what I consider most likely to have happened considering the evidence and wider 
circumstances of the case. This includes taking into consideration actions that were taken. 
I can see that Mr P contacted Lloyds on 11 May 2015 of his own volition as he had doubts 
about the legitimacy of OptionsXO. Ive listened to the call and during the conversation, Mr P 
accepted he didnt research the firm before deciding to invest. But hed looked into it since 
and there was conflicting information on the internet. Mr P said he knew OptionsXO needed 
to be regulated and there was conflicting information about this too. 
The agent Mr P spoke to at Lloyds said that they couldnt say for sure whether OptionsXO 
was legitimate, but it was possible to raise a dispute about transactions if Mr P didnt 
authorise them. There was also a general discussion about the marketing practices of high-
risk investment merchants. Despite having doubts about its legitimacy, Mr P continued 
making payments to OptionsXO. 
Ive paid particular attention to this call when considering whether an intervention by Lloyds 
at the time of the first payment would have made a difference to Mr Ps decision-making. 
The purpose of an intervention was for Lloyds to make enquiries about a transaction that 
ought to have triggered its systems as possibly fraudulent and provide a scam warning. In 
other words, to explain the hallmarks of such scams and encourage Mr P to check that he 
was dealing with a legitimate merchant before proceeding with the payment. In my view, the 
conversation of 11 May 2015 covered these aspects. I accept that the agent didnt explicitly 
tell Mr P to check if OptionsXO was regulated. But Mr P was already aware of this 
requirement when he made that call. 
Had Lloyds intervened when I think it should have, a similar conversation would have 
ensued. And given Mr Ps actions following the call that did happen, I think it more likely than 
not that any contact or discussion with Lloyds at the time he authorised the initial payment 
would not have stopped him from going ahead. While I consider that Lloyds ought to have 
asked further questions before executing his instructions to make the payment, it was still for 
Mr P to conduct any due diligence and satisfy himself that all was well before going ahead 
with it. There was, and is, no duty on a payment service provider like Lloyds to check the 
regulatory status of a merchant before executing an authorised payment instruction. 
Im also mindful that Mr P continued making payments even after his trades made losses. 
I acknowledge that hes told us he felt reassured by the merchants promises of recovery of 
the losses. I accept that he was drawn into false promises. But I cant disregard his 
investment experience and risk-appetite when deciding on a hypothetical scenario of what 
actions he would have taken had Lloyds intervened when I think it should have. For the 
reasons Ive explained above, while Ive found that Lloyds could have done more here, Im 
persuaded that any intervention would likely have been ineffective. In other words, any 
failure on Lloydss part is not the dominant, effective cause of Mr Ps losses.Ive also considered whether Lloyds could have done more in recovering the funds when 
Mr P reached out to it in 2019. As the investigator explained, and I agree, chargeback rights 
in relation to investments are very narrow. Lloyds could only have successfully presented a 
chargeback claim if the merchant had promised  in writing  Mr P guaranteed returns or 
profits which werent received. I havent seen evidence of this, so I dont think Lloyds acted 
unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback claim. And given the time that elapsed between when 
the payments were made and when Mr P asked for Lloyds assistance, recovery of funds 
sent via international payments would have been unlikely.
In summary, I know that Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But having considered the matter carefully, I wont 
be asking Lloyds to make good his losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman