DRN-4378353
The complaint
Mr V complains that the app supplied by Barclays Bank UK PLC didn't work on his phone
and that Barclays failed to resolve the problem.
What happened
Mr V reported problems when he attempted to pay using his mobile phone. He said that the 
system kept crashing or asking him for his login details. He tried to set up an online payment 
app, but this wasnt supported on the Barclays app.
Barclays attempted to fix the problem, removing the record of an old device from his 
account, but Mr V said this did not resolve it. It escalated it to its digital team, and paid Mr V 
£25 for the ongoing inconvenience.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator corresponded with 
Barclays about the problem. Barclays reported back that Mr V had been able to log on with 
his mobile phone numerous times and that the only occasions he had apparently not been 
able to do so he was asked for his password. But without further details of the dates and 
error codes when the problem arose it couldn't do anything further.
Mr V reported that he has now been able to resolve the problem and been able to register 
with the relevant payment app. But he didn't think that the compensation paid by Barclays 
was sufficient.
Our Investigator thought that Barclays had dealt with Mr V's complaint appropriately and had 
paid reasonable compensation.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Barclays should increase the 
total compensation to £100, including the £25 already paid.
Barclays agreed to my provisional findings.
Mr V said he had not received the £25 that Barclays said it had paid, nor received any 
apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below my provisional findings, in italics:
Barclays first responded to Mr V's complaint in December 2022. At that stage it said:
Due to the fact the issue with the app is being caused by a digital issue on our side, this 
complaint has been upheld in your favour. As we've exhausted all the options we have 
available at the complaints team to put a fix in place, this issue has been escalated to our 
Digital team. The team will text you when they have fixed the issue, or if they have any 
updates for you.
At the stage where Barclays responded to our Investigator in March 2023, the matter was 
still with the digital team and it could not give a time frame within which it would be resolved. 
It then asked for details of the error codes and dates when they occurred. Subsequently it 
appears it did carry out an investigation and provided lists of the occasions when Mr V 
appeared to be able to successfully use his phone for contactless payments.
However Mr V clearly had trouble in using his phone for contactless payments, as he has 
supplied the various error codes to our Investigator. He's not been able to give specific dates 
and times, but I do think that he might have been able to if Barclays had asked for that 
earlier when he raised his complaints with it.
It seems that the problem was sporadic rather than all the time. Mr V also pointed out that he 
had had problems using his phone in underground stations and was able to touch in but not 
touch out. Barclays indicated that that might be a problem with connectivity, but I would have 
thought that the underground payment system is largely designed so that phones should be 
able to be used.
Mr V also says that he was only able to register with the payment app after he contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I understand there was an update in January 2023 which 
enabled him to do this.
I realise that Mr V was able to use his physical card as an alternative, and that the problem 
is now resolved. Nevertheless I do think that Barclays could have acted on his problem 
sooner rather than advising him that it had been passed to its digital team which some three 
months later, had not contacted Mr V.
My view is that Barclays should be paying further compensation. It has paid £25. I propose 
that it pay £100, so a further £75.
Mr V says that he has not received any compensation, or any apology from Barclays. With 
regard to the £25 Barclays says it has paid, I have checked Mr Vs statements. On 
19 December 2022 (the date of Barclays final response letter), there is an entry marked 
Received: With Our Apologies which is a credit of £25. So I am able to say that Barclays 
has paid the £25, and provided an apology.
As the parties have made no further comments on my provisional findings, I remain 
persuaded by those findings, which are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay compensation of £100. It has paid £25 so should pay a further £75.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman