DRN-2913623
The complaint
Ms H complains that the secured loan recommended by Freedom Finance Limited was 
unsuitable. 
 
What happened
Freedom Finance recommended a secured loan to Ms H, which she took out in June 2014. 
The loan was secured by a second charge on her property. Ms H says while she wanted 
payments to be as low as possible initially, she wanted to be able to change the term of the 
loan later, to match her mortgage and retirement plan. Ms H says Freedom Finance told her 
this was possible, but shes since been told by the lender that this isnt possible and her only 
option is to make overpayments. Ms H also says she was told it would be possible to re-
negotiate the interest rate.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said Freedom Finance shouldnt have recommended a fixed sum credit 
agreement to Ms H. I said it should refund its broker fees, with interest, compensate Ms H 
for the costs of settling the loan early and pay £300 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Ms H agreed. Freedom Finance didnt agree. It said it had carried out work on Ms Hs behalf 
and part of its broker fee would have covered third party costs for arranging the loan, such 
as legal fees or valuation. It didnt say how much of its fee was paid to third parties. Freedom 
Finance said if Ms H had wanted to refinance after four years shed have done so by now. It 
said shes free to make overpayments is she wants to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H provided a copy of the credit agreement, the completion statement, broker fees 
disclosure form, the expenditure form and the final response letter. Freedom Finance didnt 
provide any additional evidence, or dispute that its recommendation wasnt suitable. It did 
point out that Ms H had reasons for applying for a loan and it carried out intermediary 
services on her behalf.
Freedom Finances final response letter refers to its advisers notes as saying that Ms H 
wanted the loan over longest period as she will clear in 4yrs with a remortgage. The final 
response letter says the loan had a longer term to keep payments low, but Ms H had every 
intention of repaying this loan early with a remortgage in four years time.
Ms H told us she intended to renegotiate the term and interest rate. Freedom Finances 
records say she intended to refinance the loan. Either way, I think its clear Ms H intended to 
make changes which meant she didnt intend to keep this loan on the same terms beyond 
about four years. No doubt Ms H approached Freedom Finance because she needed funds. 
But Ms H told Freedom Finance about her plans. I think it should have ensured the loan it 
recommended gave her flexibility to make changes, or repay the loan, as she planned.
While Ms H is entitled to repay the loan early, its likely there will be costs associated with 
this, especially as Ms H is still in the early years of a 25-year term. Given that Freedom 
Finance knew Ms H intended to refinance or restructure the loan I dont think it was 
appropriate for it to recommend a fixed term credit agreement.
Ms Hs lender says she can make overpayments, either on a regular or irregular basis, to 
reduce the term. If Ms H decides to do this, she should check with the lender how to do this 
and whether there are any costs or charges.
Ms H is entitled to ask her lender for a settlement statement calculated in accordance with 
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. That might help her decide what 
steps to take next. Ms H can also consider taking independent advice about her options.
Ms H told Freedom Finance she didnt intend to keep the loan for more than a few years. It 
shouldnt have recommended a loan that would be expensive to repay early in the term. So it 
should, as far as possible, put her into the position she ought to have been in, but for this 
poor advice. 
If Ms H does repay the loan early, I think it would be fair for Freedom Finance to compensate 
her for any costs due to repaying the loan early. This is a second charge. Ms H will need 
time to look into refinancing: she might want to approach her current lender or apply to other 
first charge lenders. She might have an interest rate product on her current mortgage to 
consider. She might have to look into refinancing on a second charge basis, and take advice 
about what to do. I think its reasonable to allow Ms H until the end of 2022 to do this. 
I understand that Freedom Finance undertook work in arranging Ms Hs loan. But I dont 
think its fair for Ms H to have to pay a brokers fee or other costs of arranging a loan which 
wasnt appropriate for her plans.
Putting things right
I dont think the recommendation made by Freedom Finance was suitable. So it should:
1. broker fees: refund any broker fees paid to it by Ms H in relation to the loan within 
30 days of Ms H accepting my final decision (if she does), with interest. Freedom 
Finance must pay interest at 8% simple on any broker fees paid directly to it by Ms H.
Freedom Finance must pay interest at the loan rate (initially 11.45%) on any broker 
fees added to her loan. In each case, it must pay interest from the date the loan was 
taken out (3 June 2014) to the date of settlement. *
2. repayment of the loan: If Ms H repays the loan before 31 December 2022, 
Freedom Finance must pay her compensation equal to:
(A) The total amount Ms H pays to her lender to repay the loan; less
(B) The amount of principal outstanding immediately before repayment.
The amounts for (A) and (B) will be evidenced by the relevant early settlement 
statement from Ms Hs lender. If the early settlement statement doesnt set out the 
amount of principal separately then Ms H should ask her lender to provide this in 
writing.
Ms H should send a copy of the early settlement statement, other evidence of the 
principal amount outstanding (if relevant) and evidence that the loan has been repaid to Freedom Finance within 30 days of repaying the loan. I think it would be helpful if 
she also sent a copy of my final decision. If there is a particular department or 
address Freedom Finance would like this sent to it should provide details to Ms H.
Freedom Finance must pay the result of (A)  (B) within 30 days of the date it receives 
notification from Ms H about repayment of the loan. It must pay interest on this amount at 
8% simple from the date Ms H repays the loan to the date of settlement. If Ms H has taken 
out finance to repay the loan and the rate of interest is higher than 8%, then Freedom 
Finance must pay interest at the higher rate.
3. This loan doesnt provide Ms H with the flexibility to put the plans in place that she told 
Freedom Finance about. I think this will have caused Ms H upset and trouble and I think its 
right that Freedom Finance pays compensation for this. I think £300 is fair and reasonable, 
in the circumstances.
Ms H says the interest rate is expensive. Ive considered whether it would be fair to require 
Freedom Finance to compensate Ms H for some of the interest shes paid. However, 
Freedom Finance recommended a 25-year term to reduce Ms Hs monthly payments. Its 
likely her circumstances meant she could only access relatively expensive finance, and she 
wasnt in a position to make larger monthly payments to repay more of her principal. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Freedom Finance to 
compensate Ms H for the interest shes paid to her lender.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Freedom Finance to deduct tax from this interest, it 
should give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Freedom Finance Limited to take the 
steps and make the payments set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman