DRN-2236671
The complaint
Acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs J, Mr J says that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs J.
At the time of this sale, Nationwide Building Society was trading under a different business 
name. But to keep things simpler Ill refer in my decision to Nationwide as the seller.
What happened
In October 1982 Mrs J took out a Nationwide mortgage - without PPI. 
In April 1985 she took out PPI to protect her mortgage monthly repayments. The policy 
covered Mrs J if she couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr J disagrees. Its my 
understanding that Mr J mainly feels the policy was mis-sold because the policy details 
werent properly explained to Mrs J which meant that she didnt understand exactly what she 
was paying for or what benefits PPI provided.
There are a number of other concerns raised about the mortgage. Our adjudicator has 
responded on these points and as they dont directly impact on whether the PPI was mis-
sold I dont plan to deal with these in my decision. Ive concentrated on what happened when 
PPI was sold to Mrs J and thought carefully about whether its fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a mis-sale complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
In order to be able to uphold this mis-selling complaint Id have to find it likely that Mrs J 
wasnt given a fair choice about PPI when she took it out or that it was added to the account 
without her consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mrs Js mortgage without her consent. 
I think Mrs J wouldve understood that having PPI was an optional extra on her mortgage 
account. I say this because her mortgage was set up and had already been running for a 
couple of years without PPI. Mrs J took out PPI to protect her mortgage around two and a 
half years or so after her mortgage started. 
So Mrs J wouldve been aware that it was up to her to apply for cover if she wanted it. Ive 
seen a copy of Mrs Js signed PPI application. This shows that Mrs J selected the monthly 
benefit amount she required.
Mrs Js home wouldve been at risk if her mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI 
provided dependable cover which I think Mrs J wouldve felt was likely to be useful if shed 
needed to claim. So, I can see why Mrs J mightve decided she wanted to have the security 
that PPI offered her  even if she didn't choose to take it out at the start of the mortgage. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs J decided she wanted to protect her home by having 
the benefits the policy offered her and it was added on to her mortgage account when she 
chose to buy the PPI. 
Nationwide told us the policy was sold during a meeting. I dont know exactly how the PPI 
was presented or explained to Mrs J. Nationwide says it didnt personally advise Mrs J to 
take out PPI  and Ive no reason to doubt what Nationwide says. This would mean it wasnt 
up to Nationwide to check whether the policy was suitable for Mrs Js needs. Nationwide 
should still have told Mrs J enough about the policy for her to be able to decide if she wanted 
to buy it. 
Even if Nationwide had recommended PPI to Mrs J this wouldnt make any difference to the 
outcome of this complaint because I think a recommendation would still have been suitable 
for her. 
I think, broadly speaking, its likely that Nationwide did give Mrs J enough clear information 
for her to be able to decide if PPI was right for her - and where it mightnt have done, better 
information wouldnt have made a difference to Mrs Js decision to take out PPI. 
Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
The policy couldve paid out a benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful 
accident or sickness claim. It appears that was quite a lot longer than Mrs J wouldve 
probably been able to rely on getting sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work  and it 
wouldve been paid in addition to any work benefits Mrs J mightve got, providing a useful 
benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mrs J mightve had extra costs as a result of being off 
work as a result of illness or disability. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mrs J lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
It doesnt look like Mrs J had any other ways to pay the mortgage if she wasnt able to work. 
So I think the policy offered Mrs J useful benefits given her particular circumstances. 
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mrs J about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks to me like Mrs J was eligible for the PPI. And it appears that she 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover available under the policy shed taken 
out. So I dont think that having better information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations is likely to have put Mrs J off taking it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs J at the outset. But she appears to have 
been happy to pay for the cover she wanted to have. I've seen nothing to suggest that 
paying for the policy was a problem for her  so thats not a reason for me to uphold the 
complaint. And this was a policy she paid for monthly so Mrs J was able to cancel it at any 
time if she no longer wanted to pay for it.Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mrs J wouldve made a different decision about whether 
to take out PPI if clearer information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have 
taken it out. This means I dont find that Mrs J has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide 
did wrong when it sold her this PPI. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs J paid on the PPI  and whether Nationwide 
treated her unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mrs Js PPI was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Js commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. 
As thats the case, I dont think Nationwide needed to tell Mrs J about the commission  so 
I dont think Nationwide treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay back any of 
the commission Mrs J paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman