DRN-4142352
The complaint
Mr K complains about the range of quotes that the insurance broker, One Sure Insurance 
Limited, provided for his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr Ks motor insurance policy was due for renewal in September 2022. One Sure contacted 
him a few weeks before the renewal date and quoted him a premium of more than £3,700. A 
couple of weeks later, after Mr K complained about the quote, One Sure provided a further 
quote. This time the figure was significantly less, at around £854.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint and thought it should be upheld. He 
explained that this was because he wasnt satisfied that One Sure had taken reasonable 
steps to find competitive premiums for Mr K. In particular, he wasnt satisfied that One Sure 
had contacted multiple insurers to ask for quotes. The investigator said One Sure should pay 
Mr K £100 to apologise for the service it provided.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with the investigators view. He didnt think £100 was enough to reflect 
the pain and suffering he considered that One Sure had caused. 
One Sure also disagreed with the investigators view. It said that it works with a limited panel 
of insurers and has no control over the premiums and rates set by the underwriters. It 
provides its customer with the best quote available, based on the information it has about the 
customer and his requirements.
As neither party was happy with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me.
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to One Sure on 20 April 2023. I said:
One Sure has explained that it provides its customer with the most competitive quote, 
based on the information provided by its client. It enters this into its computer system, and 
the system then automatically generates the best available quote from One Sures panel 
of insurers.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that One Sure acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way it dealt with the renewal quotes, or that it failed to follow its normal process. I dont 
know why there was such a significant difference between the quotes One Sure gave 
Mr K. But Im satisfied that One Sure provided Mr K with the most competitive premium 
available from its panel of insurers at the time the quote was generated. As One Sure has 
explained, it doesnt set the prices itself and cant influence them.
In the renewal letter One Sure said clearly that it encouraged Mr K to shop around to find 
the best deal for the cover he required. He was free to do that, and was under no 
obligation to take out the policy that One Sure recommended.
I understand that Mr K is disappointed with the renewal premiums One Sure quoted. But 
I cant reasonably say that One Sure did anything wrong here, or that Mr K lost out 
because of anything it did or didnt do. So Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I dont consider 
that it would be fair to require One Sure to pay him compensation or take any other action 
to put things right.
And I explained that this meant that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Further submissions
One Sure has told us it accepts my provisional decision and has no further comments to 
make. Mr K hasnt provided any further comments or information, and the deadline for doing 
so has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman