DRN-3137818
The complaint
Mr T says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unreasonably refused his claim for 
childrens critical illness benefit.   
What happened
Mr T took out a term assurance policy in January 2014 through a third party adviser. It offers 
level life assurance of £150,000 for a 25-year term as well as a further £40,000 of critical 
illness cover. The policy also includes childcover benefit  which offers a lower 50% of the 
critical illness cover in the event of a child suffering from a listed critical illness. 
In December 2020, a representative assisting Mr T complained to Aviva. She explained that 
Mr Ts teenage child had recently been diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes and he had made a 
claim for childcover benefit the previous month. However, the claim had been refused and 
the representative disputed this. She explained that she and Mr T took the view that the 
claim had met the policy definition.  
Specifically she said that the policy terms explained how the first diagnosis for the member 
must come after the age of 40. She explained that since the child was not a member, no 
person over the age of 40 was a child, and there were no exclusions to children mentioned 
in policy terms, Mr Ts claim ought to be paid.  
In January 2021, Aviva rejected the complaint. It said it disagreed that children with diabetes 
were covered by the policy terms. The wording required that a member be diagnosed after 
the age of 40. Mr T was the member for the policy, but it was the age of his child that was 
relevant, as the person diagnosed with diabetes. The claim was therefore not covered.   
Mr T brought his complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She said she did not think the complaint should succeed. It wasnt the case 
that a member had to be over the age of 40 for the policy to cover a child diagnosed with 
diabetes the terms only covered a member aged over 40 at the date of diagnosis.  
Mr T said he disagreed with the outcome and explained that he wanted the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman. He said the policy wording says a child can claim childcover 
benefit if he or she suffers one of the conditions in his policy handbook. And the age 
requirement was for members only. In his view, it was clearly not an exclusion for children in 
that section of the wording. Since the claim wasnt excluded, it should be paid by Aviva.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise my decision wont be what Mr T has hoped for, I am also of the view that 
this complaint should not succeed. I wont be asking Aviva to pay a claim. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if Aviva 
has acted within the terms. Mr Ts policy provides cover for a number of listed critical 
illnesses. One of those is Type 1 insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, which is set out as:
A definite diagnosis of Type 1 insulin dependent diabetes mellitus by a consultant. 
There must be abrupt onset, accompanied by ketonuria or other biochemical 
evidence of ketosis. The first diagnosis for the member must come after the age 
of 40 (my emphasis). Permanent insulin injections must be the only possible 
treatment to prevent life threatening diabetic ketoacidosis and these must have 
continued for a period of at least 12 months.
The wording then goes on to detail specific exclusions for gestational diabetes, type 2 
diabetes and diagnosis for a member within the first twelve months of membership.  
Further, the policy handbook explains about childcover benefit. It says we will pay 
childcover benefit lo you, if during the period of the agreement, a child suffers or undergoes 
a critical illness. The wording then goes on to set out several exclusions and conditions, 
such as the value payable and the requirement for the member to be a parent or legal 
guardian of the child claimed for.  The critical illness definition referred to is the same list 
applying to the member of the policy, in this case Mr T. 
Though Mr Ts conclusion is correct  that a member claiming for a type 1 diabetes 
diagnosis must be aged over 40, that does not mean there is no age requirement for a child 
claiming under the same policy definition.
The same definitions apply to members and children. The policy definition doesnt cover any 
insured member (and consequentially a child where the member has taken out additional 
childcover benefit) for type 1 diabetes unless the diagnosis takes place after the age of 40. 
When a childrens claim is made, the terms arent different  each condition is to be read in 
the same way unless excluded elsewhere in the policy. Thats because the policy wording is 
written primarily for members, with childrens claims being an additional benefit. So, for the 
purposes of the above wording its reasonable to assume the member is the claimants child. 
What the diabetes definition means is no claimant (be that a member or child) can meet the 
definition if they are below the age requirement. Aviva is therefore not obliged to consider 
any claim on this basis as Mr Ts policy terms do not include cover for any member under 
the age of 40  or the child of any member. I do not accept the argument that the usage of 
the word member and not child infers that any child can claim but a member cannot. To 
assume that would be to disregard the intent of the wording in respect of the age limit.  
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions and not others in a critical illness 
policy isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because our service is 
not the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. 
What we can determine is if, in the circumstances, a respondent business has been fair and 
reasonable in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr T feels strongly about the 
matter. But in my view, the refusal of a claim for a condition which isnt provided for in the 
policy terms (or is expressly excluded in those terms) is a fair action for an insurer to take.My final decision
For the reasons stated, I am not able to uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman