DRN-3133223
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service that he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding 
his attempts to switch an account to Barclays.
What happened
Mr C wanted to switch a current account held with another bank to Barclays. Mr C first 
attempted to do this online but was unable to do so. Mr C then contacted Barclays by 
telephone and was told that an account switch had to be requested in branch. However, 
when Mr C subsequently visited a Barclays branch, he was told that he wouldnt be able to 
complete his request in branch that day and would need to arrange an appointment the 
following month to do so. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Cs complaint. They explained that because of Covid-19 they could 
only currently accommodate branch visits for services deemed as essential  which a switch 
of account such as Mr C wanted was considered as not being  and they advised Mr C that 
he could complete the switch via the Barclays mobile banking app as an alternative.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they acknowledged that it would 
have been preferable for Mr C to have been told when he first telephoned Barclays that he 
would need to book an appointment in branch or use the mobile banking app, they felt that 
the response that Barclays had already issued to Mr C  including the offer to book a branch 
appointment and the explanation of why Barclays had the restriction in place that they did  
already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place, and they 
didnt feel that any form of compensation or reimbursement was warranted in this instance. 
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr C to have wanted to switch his 
account to Barclays but to have been unable to do so online, and then to have been told that 
he needed to visit a branch in order for the account switch to be requested and processed, 
only to then learn upon arriving at branch that his request couldnt be processed at that time 
and that an appointment would need to be made for the following month.
However, its important to remember that these events took place during the Covid-19 
pandemic at a time when business such as Barclays were encouraged to take steps to 
restrict the number of customers present in branch and to mitigate against the impact of 
potential staff shortages during the pandemic.
To this effect, Barclays elected to remove a number of services deemed as being non-
essential from their website, and this included allowing customers to initiate an account 
switch online. Additionally, Barclays also restricted branch visits during that time to essential 
banking tasks only, and again, this didnt include account switching, which as it was 
explained to Mr C when he visited branch, he would need to book an appointment for a 
future date to accomplish.
I acknowledge that it would have been better had the requirement for a booked branch 
appointment been explained to Mr C when he first telephoned Barclays, but it must be noted 
that Mr C wouldnt have been able to book such an appointment over the telephone at that 
time and would have needed to have visited the branch to do so. As such, while I can 
appreciate this it would have been frustrating for Mr C to have learned of this requirement 
when he went to branch, it seems that Mr C would always need to have visited the branch in 
order to book an appointment.
It's also notable that it wasnt initially explained to Mr C that he could have accomplished an 
account switch via the mobile banking app. But Mr C has confirmed to this service that he 
doesnt use the mobile banking app and wouldnt undertake the switch via that channel, and 
so I dont feel that Mr C not being informed that he could make a switch this way (via a 
channel he wouldnt use) has had any material impact.
Ultimately, while I can appreciate Mr Cs frustrations here, I feel that the understandably 
difficult operational circumstances present at that time meant, unfortunately, that a 
reasonably degree of inconvenience for customers such as Mr C was always likely. It also 
seems apparent that Barclays branch staff did try to accommodate Mr Cs request as much 
as possible within those restrictions by offering the future appointment to Mr C that they did. 
And taking these points into consideration, I wouldnt expect Barclays to compensate or 
reimburse Mr C in the manner that he would like here.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that Barclays have already issued to 
Mr Cs complaint already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what has taken 
place, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays 
to take any further action at this time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman