DRN-1976058
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) and their decision to decline 
the claim he made to repair his fridge freezer and then cancelling his insurance policy.
What happened
On 23 April 2020, Mr B took out an insurance policy with D&G to cover his fridge freezer. On 
29 April, Mr B called D&G to utilise this policy. He explained the fridge element of the 
appliance was making an unknown noise and there was water in the bottom. So, he was 
looking for D&G to send an engineer to repair it.
On the call, D&G explained they had a limited number of engineers covering the area Mr B 
lived. Because of this, they were unable to arrange an appointment until 13 May. So, they 
offered Mr B the option of sourcing his own engineer and theyd pay the repair costs, up to 
£200. But, crucially, during this conversation, Mr B made D&G aware that the fridge freezer 
had begun malfunctioning a month before when the food had began defrosting. He 
explained he hadnt taken any action and the problem seemed to have rectified itself until 
this new issue had arose.
Because of this, D&G explained they would need to cancel the insurance policy as the 
previous issue hadnt been disclosed when Mr B took out the policy. They gave Mr B the 
option of repairing the existing fault himself and continuing with the policy or taking out a new 
policy at a higher premium and they would then look to cover the repair. Mr B was unhappy 
with these options, so the policy was cancelled, and a complaint was logged.
Mr B didnt think D&G were fair to decline the claim. He thought the fridge freezer had been 
working when he took out the policy. So, he thought D&G should cover his original claim 
under the initial policy.
D&G didnt agree. They thought that, as Mr Bs fridge freezer had an existing fault, it wasnt 
in good working order and so fell under an exclusion of his original policy. So, they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong by declining the claim and cancelling the policy. They 
offered Mr B two options moving forwards. Mr B could either set up a new policy for 
damaged goods where the initial repair would be covered. Or he could repair the fridge 
freezer himself and take out a new policy like the one he took before after the work had been 
completed. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response. He thought hed be led into revealing information that 
allowed D&G to decline the claim. He maintained his claim should be covered and his fridge 
freezer repaired. As Mr B remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought D&G had 
declined the claim fairly under the terms and conditions of the policy as Mr B had made them 
aware there was a fault with the appliance before he took the policy out. She also thought 
theyd acted fairly by explaining clearly the alternative options Mr B had available to him to 
ensure the appliance was repaired. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree. He maintained his view that D&G acted unfairly and that he had the 
necessary cover for the fridge freezer to be fixed. He thought D&G were lying and had 
unfairly cancelled his policy without returning his premium. As Mr B didnt agree, the decision 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact and inconvenience Mr B has suffered. Ive no doubt that 
Mr Bs fridge freezer isnt working correctly and that there is a fault that needs to be repaired. 
I can understand how frustrating it must be to have been in the situation for a significant 
period of time. But, it isnt my role to re-underwrite the claim. Its my role to look at the 
service D&G have provided, and decide whether theyve fairly assessed Mr Bs claim and 
the information he provided against the terms and conditions of the policy he held. And in 
this situation, I think they have.
D&G declined Mr Bs claim as they thought it fell under the exclusion in the policy terms and 
conditions which states We shall not be liable for claims where you have breached the 
important conditions or failed to comply with your responsibilities set out in this policy. 
Within the important conditions it states that Your appliance must be in good working order 
when you take out the policy. 
Ive listened to the call Mr B made when he set up the policy. Within the call, he confirmed 
the fridge freezer was in good working order and so the policy was set up. Ive also listened 
to the call Mr B made when he made the claim on this policy six days later. Within this call, 
Mr B explained a month before that date, thered been an issue where the food had been 
defrosting. But, he explained he hadnt done anything about it as the issue seemed to have 
resolved itself. Mr B offered this information freely, without being led by D&G. And because 
of this information, D&G felt this meant the appliance hadnt been in good working order 
when the policy was set up, so thought it needed to be cancelled and the claim declined.
So, Ive considered whether this was a fair assumption for D&G to make. I think it wouldve 
been reasonably clear to Mr B that there was an underlying issue with the fridge freezer 
when the food had been defrosting. This clearly showed that there was some kind of issue 
as the appliance wasnt working as it shouldve been. Although I understand the issue 
seemed to rectify itself, I wouldve expected Mr B to have had this issue inspected to ensure 
it wasnt a sign of a more serious issue. 
Without this inspection, I dont think its unfair for D&G to say that the fridge freezer wasnt in 
a good working order as it had an unidentified issued. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly 
by declining the claim under the exclusion quoted above. And I think if Mr B had made D&G 
aware of this previous issue when he set up the policy, alongside the fact it hadnt been 
inspected, I dont think the policy wouldve been set up. So, I think D&G were fair to cancel 
the policy as the fridge freezer wasnt suitable for that level of cover. Because of this, I dont 
think D&G need to do anything further.
Im aware D&G have provided Mr B with two different options available to him to ensure his 
fridge freezer is repaired. Mr B can either repair the appliance himself and take out a similar 
policy once its been confirmed as being in good working order. Or, he can take out an 
alternative policy for damaged items where the repair cost would be included. I think D&G 
have acted fairly and reasonably by offering Mr B these alternatives and its Mr Bs decision 
on how he wishes to proceed.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. But I hope this decision provides 
closure on his complaint and that Mr B is able to utilise one of the two options available to 
him to ensure the repairs to his fridge freezer are completed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman