DRN-3068314
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by LeasePlan UK Limited, 
following the return of his car.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with LeasePlan. The 
agreement was for 36 months, with an advance rental of £855.00 and 36 monthly rental 
payments of £285.00. In March 2019, Mr S and LeasePlan agreed to a 12-month extension 
of the agreement; with a further 12 monthly rental payments of £331.72.
Mr S says he made the last scheduled payment in March 2020, and he arranged to return 
the car. The car was due to be collected on collected on 9 April 2020, but this was delayed, 
and the collection didnt happen until 13 May 2020. And Mr S says that LeasePlan charged 
him an additional payment as a result of this delay. LeasePlan also charged Mr S for 
damage to the car that fell outside the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations fair 
wear and tear guidelines.
Mr S complained to LeasePlan about the charges. LeasePlan agreed to reduce some of the 
damage charges, but not the rental payment. Mr S was unhappy with LeasePlans response, 
and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, when the car was collected, Mr S had only paid 11 rental 
payments. Because of this, he thought that LeasePlan had acted reasonably by saying that 
Mr S still owed them one payment under the extension agreement. And he hadnt seen any 
evidence that LeasePlan had charged Mr S anything additional for any period after the 
agreement ended, but before the car was collected.
The investigator also said hed seen evidence the damage LeasePlan were charging for was 
present when the car was inspected. And the agreement Mr S had signed with LeasePlan 
allowed them to charge him for this damage. So he didnt think LeasePlan had done 
anything wrong by doing so.
Mr S said that he was happy to pay the damage charges, but he didnt agree that he had to 
pay any rental payments, because hes paid everything he was contractually obliged to. And 
hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
As Mr S has agreed that the damages charges are correct, and confirmed that hes willing to 
pay these, my decision will focus on the charge for the rental payment.
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which Mr S signed on 22 January 2016. This states 
there was a minimum period of hire of 36 months from when the car was supplied to Mr S. 
It also states that one Advance Rental Payment of £855.00 (incl. VAT) is payable on or 
before the Commencement Date, followed by 36 monthly Rentals of £285.00 (incl. VAT).
Ive also seen the Agreement modifying a Hire Agreement, which Mr S signed on 11 March 
2019. This says that the amended term was for a minimum period of 49 months starting 
from the commencement date of the earlier agreement. It also says that a rental payment of 
£331.72 (incl. VAT) [is] payable on the 24/04/19, followed by 11 rentals each of £331.72 
(incl. VAT) the first payable 1 month after the 24/04/19 with subsequent Rentals payable on 
the corresponding day of each subsequent month.
LeasePlan have provided a breakdown of the payments made by Mr S under both of the 
agreements. This shows that the £855.00 advance rental payment was paid on 25 April 
2016, followed by 36 payments of £285.00  the rental payment for December 2018 wasnt 
made, and the final rental payment under the original agreement was collected on 13 May 
2019. So Im satisfied that Mr S paid all of the required payments due under the original 
agreement.
For the extension to the agreement, the breakdown shows Mr S paid 11 rental payments, 
starting on 24 May 2019, and finishing on 27 March 2020. Theres no evidence that the initial 
payment under this agreement  due on 24 April 2019  was ever collected. And Mr S hasnt 
provided me with anything to show that he paid this. So Im satisfied Mr S hasnt made all of 
the required rental payments under this agreement, and a rental payment of £331.72 
remains outstanding.
As such, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, I think that LeasePlan 
acted reasonably by charging for both the damage to the car and for the missing rental 
payment under the extension agreement. So I wont be asking them to amend their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about LeasePlan UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman