DRN-1431157
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with what Assurant General Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on 
his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In August last year Mr P got in touch with Assurant to make a claim following damage to his 
mobile phone. Assurant asked him to provide further information including proof of usage. Mr 
P sent that through a few days later. Assurant told Mr P on 23 August that it was turning 
down the claim; it says it had contacted his network provider who told it the proof of usage 
wasn't valid. Mr P purchased a replacement phone that evening. The following day he 
provided information from his network provider which said the previous details he'd provided 
were genuine and confirmed (on letter headed paper) what the usage dates had been. 
In response to the complaint he made Assurant said the claim had initially been declined 
because it wasn't able to validate the usage document he provided. But on the basis of the 
information he'd now provided it accepted the claim and said it would pay him around £400 
(which was the market value of a refurbished version of Mr P's phone). It also accepted 
there had been delay in assessing the further information he provided and said it would pay 
£150 for that; it subsequently agreed to pay a further £50 for wrongly sending Mr P another 
claim decline letter. 
Our investigator noted the initial proof of usage provided by Mr P wasn't on letter headed 
paper but thought it likely Assurant had received that sort of information in email format 
previously. And if it had wanted something different it should have made that clear. He didn't 
think Assurant had been right to turn down the claim and thought that led Mr P to purchase a 
new phone himself. He said Assurant should reimburse Mr P the costs he'd incurred here. 
Assurant agreed to increase the amount it had previously paid to reimburse Mr P for the full 
cost of the new phone he'd bought plus £100 compensation for the trouble and upset he'd 
been caused. 
Our investigator agreed that was fair but Mr P didn't. He said it reduced the amount of 
compensation for poor customer service by £100. And he drew attention to the time it had 
taken for this matter to be resolved. He said he should be back in the position he would have 
been if the claim hadn't been declined in the first place. He also felt he should receive 
additional compensation for distress and upset and an apology from Assurant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr P has found this an extremely distressing experience. And I recognise 
having his claim turned down on the basis he'd provided inaccurate information would have been upsetting for him. I don't think there's now any dispute he didn't do that and the 
information he sent came from his network provider. 
However, under the terms of his policy, if false or inaccurate information is provided and 
fraud is identified Assurant has the right to do a number of things which include not 
honouring a claim that's been made. In this case I agree with our investigator that it wouldn't 
have been reasonable to do that solely on the basis that the information wasn't on letter 
headed paper (especially as it doesn't appear that was specified as a requirement). 
But while Assurant does appear to have had some concerns over the formatting of the 
information Mr P provided the key issue appears to have been that his network provider said 
that this wasn't a valid proof of usage. And generally I don't think it would be unreasonable of 
an insurer to use information like this when deciding a claim. 
Having said that I understand in other cases we've seen there have been issues with 
the quality of information given to Assurant by this network provider. So there was arguably 
more of an onus on Assurant to confirm the validity of the data it had been provided with; for 
example by putting this evidence to Mr P prior to making a decision on the claim. 
Having said that even if Assurant had done that I'm not persuaded Mr P would have acted 
differently. He continued to pursue the matter with Assurant so clearly wasn't prevented from 
providing the additional evidence in support of his case that ultimately led to Assurant 
accepting the claim.
Mr P says because the claim was declined he had no choice but to purchase a replacement 
phone as no other option was available to him. But he was continuing to pursue matters with 
Assurant and would reasonably have known he'd be able to show the evidence from his 
network provider was genuine. And while I appreciate Mr P may have needed a phone in the 
interim I'm not sure that meant he needed to pay the full cost of an exact replacement. 
But I don't need to reach a firm conclusion on this point. That's because as part of our 
investigation Assurant has already agreed to reimburse Mr P for the full cost of the 
replacement phone he bought. I think that's likely to put Mr P in a better position than he 
would have been if his claim hadn't been declined in the first place. 
That's because he now has a brand new phone whereas if he'd been supplied with one by 
Assurant there's no guarantee that would have been the case as, under the terms of its 
policy, it's able to provide a refurbished model. In addition I understand Assurant hasn't 
deducted any excess from the payment it made to Mr P. So he's an additional £75 better off 
than he otherwise would be. 
I appreciate the overall compensation figure for trouble and upset is lower than Mr P thinks is 
appropriate and is also lower than that originally proposed by Assurant. And I recognise that 
compensation for financial loss is separate to this. Nevertheless, in deciding what the 
appropriate figure is to put things right in this case, I think it's reasonable to take into account 
the overall benefit Mr P has received.
In considering this I've taken into account what Mr P has said about the time it took for 
matters to be resolved and the other points he's made. Having done so I think the £100 
Assurant has offered (along with the other compensation it's provided) does enough to put 
things right in this case. I don't think it needs to do anything more.
Putting things rightTo put things right Assurant will need to pay Mr P £969.95 in total. That's the cost of the 
replacement phone he bought, plus £100 in compensation for trouble and upset. Assurant is 
entitled to deduct from that figure the amount it's already paid to Mr P. 
My final decision
I've decided to uphold this complaint. Assurant General Insurance Limited will need to put 
things right by doing what I've said in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman