DRN-2413302
The complaint
This complaint is about a series of phone calls that took place between Mr R and Nationwide 
Building Society when he enquired about possible mortgage facilities for a house purchase 
he and his wife were considering making. He believes that the people he dealt with were 
ill-informed, unhelpful and provided contradictory information.
What happened
The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. I make that point because not all of the 
phone calls between Mr R and Nationwide were recorded.
Mr R has said he wants three things to settle the complaint; these are, a proper apology for 
acknowledged mistakes, compensation for stress caused to him and his wife, and clarity 
regarding any future application for the mortgage product he and his wife are interested in. 
Ill address these in reverse order.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with complaint about things that have happened. It 
cant future-proof someone against what might or might not happen later. Like all lenders, 
Nationwides lending policy evolves over time, to reflect changes in the economic and 
regulatory environment. Its not my role to say what Nationwides policy should be or how 
much of the detail of that policy should be published on its website. If Mr and/or Mrs R were 
to encounter problems with any future enquiries they make about a mortgage (to Nationwide 
or any other business for that matter) then they could complain at the relevant time if they 
needed to. 
Ive no doubt Mr R was very frustrated by the experience of his enquiries to Nationwide, and 
that the outcome was, ultimately, an unsatisfactory one. But the reality is that we live in a 
world where things dont always go as planned or turn out as hoped. But not every such 
experience warrants an award of compensation. Here, the entire sequence of calls took 
place over a matter of days in May 2020, and whilst annoying for Mr R, its not a situation 
where I consider the level of inconvenience justifies a payment of compensation. 
Last, Mr R wants Nationwide to acknowledge mistakes were made and provide a proper 
apology. Clearly, Mr R thinks Nationwide made mistakes, but it didnt think it had. My take on 
this point is that its largely a question of differing perceptions, and not something thats 
essential to the outcome of the complaint. 
As for an apology, Nationwide did say sorry (twice) in its final response. It seems Mr R 
didnt consider that went far enough, and thats his prerogative entirely. But Im not sure how 
me ordering Nationwide to apologise again (always assuming I considered that necessary  
which I dont) would help matters. An apology given under duress has no value.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman