DRN-1553991
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc cannot find the late Mr Es policy. 
What happened
In December 2010 Ms Es father - Mr E  died. In April 2018 she applied for Grant of 
Probate. 
In January 2019 Ms E contacted Natwest to ask it to release the funds under a life insurance 
policy in her fathers name with a company Ill refer to as A. Sadly, in February 2019 Mrs E - 
Ms Es mother  died. So she contacted Natwest to make it aware of her death.
Unhappy with how long it was taking Natwest to release a charge it had over the insurance 
policy that was with A, Ms E made a complaint. Natwest then sent a final response in 
December 2019 apologising for the delay in investigating this issue. It said Natwest held a 
charge dating back to 1988 which needed to be investigated. And as it no longer had an 
interest in this charge it contacted A to make it aware this. 
Ms E remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to this service. She felt Natwest had 
lost her fathers life insurance policy. And as A has also been unable to locate the policy, 
Natwest should pay her the lump sum of the policy and compensation. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. He said that as there 
was no record of the policy on Natwests systems he didnt think he could ask it to pay out 
any potential lump sum. He added that Ms E could speak to A to find out if the policy still 
exists. 
Ms E remained unhappy. She said Natwest has failed to keep accurate records and it has 
failed in its duty of care to its customer. 
So this complaint has now been passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms E feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
I can only ask Natwest to make a payment to Ms E if Im satisfied it's responsible for this 
insurance policy. 
I can certainly understand Ms Es frustration with this complaint. Im satisfied there was a 
policy in Mr Es name in the past as Ms E has provided a letter from Natwest  dated
30 June 2015 - addressed to her late mother about a life policy for her father. However, the letter doesnt say that Natwest will make a payment for the policy or is responsible for it. It 
was only asking for confirmation from the executor to release Natwests charge over it. 
The evidence suggests a charge of some kind was placed on Natwests records  most 
likely as a result of some borrowing in Mr Es name from the 1980s. The policy Natwest 
wrote to the late Mrs E about may have been taken out to cover this lending. But Natwest no 
longer has a record of the borrowing due to the time that has passed. And this service 
wouldnt say not having the records from the 1980s is unreasonable due to the passage of 
time. So Im satisfied that as Natwest no longer has any borrowing that needs to be repaid in 
Mr Es name, it no longer has any interest in any possible life policy. 
Although Natwest can no longer find traces of a policy it doesnt mean it is responsible for A 
not being able to find any trace of it or that it has to pay Ms E the possible sum assured. And 
I cant hold Natwest liable for As systems and that the policy hasnt been traced. So I dont 
think I can reasonably ask Natwest to pay Ms E any money here. 
I note Ms E has asked for compensation for this complaint. I can see Natwest has 
apologised to her and said feedback will be given to its staff about the way it handled this 
issue. I think thats enough in the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mr E 
and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman