DRN-2775287
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased 
the credit limit on her credit card account to unaffordable amounts.
What happened
Miss S says her credit limit was increased from £1,500 to £6,000 in about two years. She 
says the increases were unaffordable and far higher than they should have been and 
resulted in her using the account more often. Miss S says she found out about the increases 
when Barclaycard sent her a letter about her account. She would like the interest looked at 
and her balance recalculated.
Barclaycard says it wrote to some customers about a system error which may have given 
customers too high a credit limit. It says it offered Miss S £75 compensation but says she 
managed her account appropriately and doesnt accept the credit limit increases were 
unaffordable. Barclaycard says it carried out appropriate checks before granting the 
increases and Miss S hasnt told it about any financial difficulties.
Miss S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Miss S could have rejected any offered credit limit increases and thought she 
managed her account appropriately by making required payments and using balance 
transfers. The investigator didnt think there any evidence of Barclaycard being told about 
financial difficulties and thought the £75 compensation fair and reasonable for that part of the 
complaint.
Miss S doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard agreed to reduce the interest rate on 
her account and sent her letters about being in persistent debt, 
The investigator thought these were new complaint points that Barclaycard would need to 
look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss S will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the facility or the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than 
for example a loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Barclaycards checks to 
have been as detailed as for that type of lending.
I have looked at Barclaycards records and can see that Miss S declared an income of over 
a £1,000 a month and that her expenses were about £350 a month. Im satisfied that on the 
face of it Barclaycards lending decision was affordable and so not irresponsible. Im also 
satisfied that checks were carried out on Miss Ss credit file and that there wasnt any 
relevant adverse information recorded on it.
I have looked at Miss Ss account statements and Im satisfied that she managed her credit 
card account appropriately. I can see that she made regular payments and didnt exceed her 
credit limit. I can also see that she made repayments significantly more than the required 
amounts and for large periods didnt use her full balance. I find that provides additional 
evidence that the lending here and later credit limit increases were properly considered and 
were affordable.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard has explained why it sent the letter about persistent debt and 
has fairly offered what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £75 for that 
part of the complaint. I appreciate that isnt Miss Ss main complaint here. Im also satisfied 
that Miss S didnt tell Barclaycard about any financial difficulties at the time of the lending or 
at the time of the credit limit increases.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss 
Ss credit card account application and on the later credit limit increases. And that its lending 
was affordable. If Miss S hasnt received the £75 compensation then she should contact 
Barclaycard about accepting it if she wishes to do so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman