DRN-3387394
The complaint
Mr F complains that when he made a claim for damage to his horsebox, U K Insurance 
Limited trading as NIG Insurance (NIG) didnt give him a fair cash in lieu amount for the 
repair that is needed. 
What happened
Mr Fs horsebox was damaged by overhanging vegetation when he was driving it down a 
single lane road.  He contacted his insurance broker to make a claim under his insurance 
policy. The broker passed the claim along to NIG as it is the insurer.
Mr F completed an accident claim form and provided an estimate for repairs from his 
preferred repairer. The estimate was based on a photographic assessment. It detailed the 
need for replacing the entrance door and fitting a new roof mounted aerial as well as 
preparing and painting the entire vehicle. The estimated cost was £17,031.81 inclusive of 
VAT.
Mr F asked if it was possible to have a cash in lieu settlement from NIG as he wasnt 
planning to have the repairs done for a number of months. This was due to him needing to 
use the vehicle, and the availability of his preferred repairer.
NIG sent an engineer to inspect Mr Fs vehicle and validate the claim. It's engineer didn't 
agree that the entire vehicle needed repainting. The engineers report highlighted defects in 
the paintwork of the vehicle, including some bubbling, chips and blemishes. The engineer 
said these were unrelated to the accident damage, in his opinion, and so NIG was not liable 
to repair these. He believed the scratches that related to the claim could be polished out and 
this would be a fair way to settle the claim, as a complete respray of the horsebox would 
lead to betterment. He did agree that the roof mounted aerial needed replacing as well as 
some repairs being needed for damage to the front overcab, side mirrors and a wheel 
covering. However, he didn't agree the entrance door damage was accident related, and so 
didn't feel this needed to be replaced.
The engineer estimated the cost of the repairs needed would be £4241.51 less the excess 
due on the policy. 
Mr F disagreed with the engineers opinion on this and complained to NIG. It then asked a 
senior engineer to give a second opinion based on the first engineers report. The senior 
engineer agreed that not all of the paintwork problems were accident related, and those that 
were could be polished out. He agreed with the estimates of the first engineer. 
Mr F remained unhappy with this offer and so brought his complaint to this service. In the 
meantime, NIG paid Mr F the settlement based on the estimate provided in the engineers 
report.
The investigator that looked at the complaint, didnt think it was one that should be upheld. In 
summary he said he was more persuaded by the engineers report that NIG had provided, 
rather than the estimate from Mr Fs preferred repairer, as this had been based on a physical 
inspection of the vehicle.
Mr F disagreed, and sent in various pictures and videos of both this vehicle and his previous 
vehicle to show the condition he keeps vehicles in. The investigator explained this didnt 
change things for him and invited Mr F to have the vehicle inspected and have his own 
report compiled so it could be considered. Mr F said he would do this, NIG offered to send 
one of its engineers along to the inspection so any differences could be discussed in the 
moment. Mr F did not want this, so it was agreed that he would supply the report to this 
service once it was completed. The vehicle was due to be inspected on 9 February 2022. As 
no report was received from Mr F the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. I think its important 
to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided by both 
parties, in reaching my decision. Mr F has sent this service a lot of information for me to 
consider during the course of his complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The policy Mr F has with NIG entitles him to make a claim for accidental damage. NIGs 
responsibility when meeting his claim is to put him back in the position he would have been 
in immediately before the loss. So, in this case, it is restoring the vehicle to the condition it 
was in immediately before the damage was caused by the vegetation. Where there is any 
pre-existing damage NIG is not liable to correct or repair that damage. 
My role here is not to decide the cost of the repairs but to decide if NIG has acted fairy in 
relying on the engineers report to say what damage is accident related and I think it has. Ill 
explain.
Ordinarily when a claim for accidental damage is made, the insurer will arrange for the 
repairs to be carried out, and deal with the repairer directly. In this case Mr F asked for a 
cash in lieu settlement and so NIG had to ask an engineer to verify the costs of the repairs it 
was liable for. The engineer provided a report detailing, in his expert opinion, what damage 
he thought was related to the incident and what he thought was pre-existing. He then gave 
an estimate for the cost of repairs based on what he assessed to be the incident related 
damage only.
Mr F disagrees with the scope of the report  he believes his vehicle to have been in pristine 
condition prior to the incident and feels all of the damage is incident related. 
NIG referred its original report to a senior engineer for a second opinion and he agreed with 
the original engineers findings. 
Before coming to my decision, I reached out to Mr F to ask him for a copy of the report he 
told us he had instructed. Mr F told me that hed had the vehicle inspected by the paint shop 
manager and that it was free of charge and so he wasnt able to push for a written report. He 
asked me to join a three-way call with him and the paint shop manager to discuss the cost of 
the work needed. I declined this. As I explained to Mr F, the crux of this complaint is not about the cost of the work needed to return the vehicle to a pristine condition, its about 
deciding what damage is and isnt incident related, and therefore what NIG is liable to pay 
for. I gave Mr F another opportunity to obtain a report that would detail this, but he hasnt 
provided one.
Mr F has provided photographs and videos of his vehicle, but this doesnt help me to decide 
what damage is related to the incident. He has also told us he has spoken to various paint 
shops and repairers, and they agree with him that the paint shouldnt be polished to remove 
the scratches. But Im not persuaded by these, as they arent being given in an independent 
report by an expert that has inspected the vehicle.
The two engineers that have given their opinion are accredited experts in their field. So in 
order for me to find that their opinions are wrong, as Mr F has suggested, I would need to 
see a report from a comparable person that reached different findings. In the absence of any 
such report, I cant say that NIG has acted unfairly in the settlement it has provided to Mr F 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything differently here.
I know Mr F will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with NIG can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman