DRN-1239664
 
The complaint
Miss P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took a long time to make a payment of 
money from her account.
What happened
Miss P brought her concerns to us as she was unhappy with the response shed had from 
Barclays. In their Final Response Letter (FRL) of 21 March 2019 Barclays accepted the 
amount of time Miss P had spent in branch earlier that month was unacceptable. They 
apologised for the length of time it had taken to instruct her payment and said her 
experience had highlighted where theyd failed to provide a good level of service. Barclays 
said that to reflect this they had credited her account with £50 compensation.
Our investigator found Barclays had caused Miss P substantial inconvenience across 
multiple days in trying to get the transfer processed. He didnt think the £50 credited by 
Barclays reflected that. So he thought they should pay Miss P a further £100 to apologise for 
the trouble caused.
Miss P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into her case further. She told us 
she felt the further £100 didnt really compensate this complaint for the duration of days and 
hours shed spent in the bank unnecessarily. She also thought there were additional areas of 
Barclays service - which shed told us about as part of this complaint - that werent looked 
into. Barclays accepted the investigators view but didnt action making the further £100 
payment as Miss P had asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should be clear that in this decision Im only considering the delays Miss P 
encountered when trying to make the payment from her account in early March 2019. Im 
aware there are additional areas where shes unhappy with the service from Barclays but 
these issues are not part of this decision. 
Everyone accepts the amount of time it took Barclays to process this payment instruction 
was unacceptable and thats caused Miss P upset and inconvenience. The payment was 
finally made but what isnt agreed is what compensation should be paid. Barclays have 
apologised and explained how and why the problems occurred. But, like the investigator and 
Miss P, I dont think their initial payment of £50 compensation is a proper reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused at the time.
Barclays mistake inconvenienced Miss P, but I cant see theres been any loss to her. I 
know she believes the investigators recommendation of a further £100 compensation 
doesnt really compensate her but I disagree. The total award of £150 is the sort of award Id have made in these circumstances had it not already been offered. Taking that into account 
and in light of our general level of awards Im satisfied that a further £100 compensation - 
making a  total of £150 - is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Miss P a 
further £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman