DRN-3172582
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Nationwide Building Society handled his request for help 
following the cancellation of flights he paid for on his Nationwide credit card.
What happened
Mr G used his Nationwide credit card to pay a travel agent which Ill call T for flights. The 
flights were from England to America, America to Mexico, Mexico to England. The total cost 
for the flights as originally booked was £1,614. The cost of the flight from America to Mexico 
was £275. The flights were to enable, amongst other things, attendance at a conference in 
America. In February 2020, the conference was cancelled and so the flight requirements 
were changed. Mr G therefore requested T to amend the flights. He was quoted a price of 
£473 to do this, which he agreed to and paid on his Nationwide credit card.
As a result of the pandemic the flights were cancelled. T told him it would only be refunding 
£1,339 whereas Mr G had paid T £2,087 (£1,614 for the original flights plus £473 for 
amending the flight). Mr G therefore turned to Nationwide for help.
Nationwide raised a chargeback to recover some of Mr Gs money. It said it couldnt recover 
all the money using a chargeback because the £473 payment was to change flights which 
had been completed successfully by T. On the same day as the chargeback for £1,614 T 
issued a refund of £1,339. Nationwide then reversed £1,339 of the chargeback. T disputed 
the remaining chargeback of £275 and Nationwide returned the money to T. When T 
disputed the chargeback, it said it provided a refund on the return flights from England to 
Mexico less its administration fee. It provided Nationwide with evidence that its 
administration fee was £75 per flight. Nationwide decided not to pursue the chargeback 
further.
Alongside the chargeback Nationwide referred the complaint to its Section 75 team. Having 
completed its investigation it responded to Mr G confirming that a section 75 claim couldnt 
be made due to a break in the debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) chain. It said this was due to 
the payment being made via T, as opposed to being made directly to the airline.
Mr G was unhappy as he obtained proof from the airlines that T had received a full refund. 
He also felt a charge of £473 couldnt be justified for the work done by T. Therefore, he 
asked us to investigate this.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Nationwides view 
that there was nothing to be gained by pursuing a chargeback for the £473 was reasonable. 
He also thought due to the absence of a DCS chain  due to the use of T, an intermediary  
the conditions necessary for a successful section 75 claim were absent and therefore the 
investigator couldnt see that Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view. He didnt think the outcome was fair. He thought 
the administration charge of £473 was clearly excessive or unfair. He wanted to know why 
Nationwide didnt push the scheme administrator for the intermediary to justify the costs and 
refunds. He also thought that he was owed a further £275.
The investigator issued a second view. He wasnt entirely certain what the £275 deduction 
was for, but he agreed with Nationwide that there was nothing to be gained by pursuing the 
chargeback further in relation to this money.
Mr G has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the £275 he was referring to was the 
cost of the flight from America to Mexico. He thought any reasonable overview would 
determine that T was not entitled to keep the refund. He says the £473 admin charge was
separate and excessive.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I understood and sympathised with Mr Gs frustration. He 
knew that the airlines had refunded the flights still booked at the time of the cancellation, but 
he hadnt had all his money back. I said my role was to find a fair outcome to the complaint 
between Mr G and Nationwide. I dont have any powers over T and couldnt make any 
finding about it.
Despite having no powers over T, I had asked it to provide information to help resolve the 
complaint unfortunately it had not responded at the time of the provisional decision. 
When Mr G came to Nationwide, I said we would expect it to look at how it could help him 
and in particular about any claims it could make under a chargeback or under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
I thought Mr G had accepted that a claim under section 75 wouldnt have succeeded so I 
said I wouldnt say anything more about this other than to say I agreed that it wouldnt have 
done.
Regarding the chargeback scheme I said as the investigator explained the chargeback 
process is administered by the scheme provider (not Nationwide) and provides a process for 
credit card providers to recover funds for its account holders in certain situations. Broadly 
speaking credit card providers should decide whether to make a chargeback or not. But wed 
generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. If they did, then they must have done so properly. The 
vendor then receives that chargeback and may agree to refund the payment or may contest 
the chargeback. If it contests, then the credit card provider (Nationwide here) should 
consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is warranted then it can take the 
chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider who will then make an 
independent determination on the matter. A consumer isnt entitled to a chargeback and how 
far a business pursues things if a chargeback is defended is voluntary.
T gave Mr G a refund of £1,339. But he paid it £2,087. T explained it was refunding £1,339 
because it was refunding the cost of the flights by the airline which would have flown him out 
of England and back to England. But it wasnt refunding the £473 fee it charged to change 
the flights when Mr G had asked it to make this change earlier. And it wasnt refunding the 
cost of the flight from America to Mexico because it said these flights had been previously 
cancelled.
Regarding the £473 fee, I thought Nationwide took a reasonable position when it didnt 
pursue this further. T did provide the service for Mr G that he paid for  it rearranged the 
flight. I appreciated that Mr G didnt feel the fee charged was justifiable. But Mr G chose to 
pay that fee knowing how much it was and what he was being offered in return. And whether 
a charge is fair isnt something that chargebacks would deal with, nor would we expect 
business to consider it when determining how best to help a customer.Mr G had provided evidence that the America to Mexico flight wasnt cancelled prior to the 
relevant airline cancelling it. And given it was a non-refundable flight it wouldnt on the face 
of it appear to have needed to be cancelled. The information T supplied didnt make it clear 
why the figure to be refunded included a deduction for £275. There was a mention of an 
administration fee and there was also mention of a flight being cancelled. I thought it was 
most likely Mr G was right and the £275 deduction was the cost of the flight from America to 
Mexico.
I said as I mentioned earlier a consumer isnt entitled to a chargeback and how far a 
business pursues things if a chargeback is defended is voluntary. Consumers often want a 
business to take things further than a business has done. And I could understand this but I 
needed to keep in mind that at this stage what the business did was voluntary and so I 
needed to look at its actions through that lens.
When T defended the chargeback Nationwide could see that the flights Mr G had intended to 
take (from England to Mexico and back) appeared to have been refunded. Mr G hadnt been 
refunded all that he had paid but that might reasonably have been expected given he had 
changed his flights and in so doing incurred a fee for doing so and the intention to take three 
flights had turned into an intention to take two flights. I thought in that context and with the 
information it had, I couldnt fairly say Nationwide should have done more. I said this even 
though I sympathised strongly with Mr G and saw how he felt let down.
Responses from T and responses to my provisional decision
The investigator continued to chase T after I issued my provisional decision. T provided 
evidence that it had refunded the £275 in April 2021. It also told us Mr G acknowledged 
receipt of the £275 in April 2021.
The investigator asked Mr G to confirm he had received the refund in April 2021. He 
confirmed he had done so. He still wants a final decision because he remains unhappy with 
Nationwide and T.
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G remains unhappy with Nationwide and T. I remind him that I can only 
make a decision about Nationwide. 
The only new thing that has emerged since my provisional decision is that he received the 
£275 refund in April 2021. So, the only sum that he is out of pocket is the £473 fee. And for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision  which I confirm here - I dont think I can 
fairly say that Nationwide should have done more about that sum. 
The fact that T refunded Mr G doesnt persuade me that Nationwide should have done more 
to help him. As I said in my provisional decision a consumer isnt entitled to a chargeback 
and how far a business pursues things if a chargeback is defended is voluntary. I still cant 
fairly say Nationwide should have done more although I am pleased that T did refund him 
the £275 in April 2021.
I will therefore not be upholding his complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman