DRN-4347509
The complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W took out a personal private medical insurance policy with AXA in July 2007.
Unfortunately, in 2018, Mrs W was diagnosed with breast cancer and underwent
radiotherapy. Mrs W takes regular medication to prevent a recurrence of cancer and
undergoes bi-annual medical reviews with a consultant breast surgeon who Ill call Mr M.
In October 2022, Mrs W saw Mr M at a review in a clinic. Mr M found no evidence of
recurrent malignancy. But he noted that Mrs W had experienced changes in her right breast
secondary to breast cancer surgery and radiotherapy. These changes were due to a breast
implant Mrs W had had inserted in 2006 becoming hardened and encapsulated. Mr M noted
that Mrs W was keen to undergo removal and replacement of her existing breast implants.
So Mrs W made a claim on her private medical insurance policy for the costs of removing
and replacing her existing, hardened breast implant and the implant inserted in her other
breast.
AXA turned down Mrs Ws claim. It didnt dispute that Mrs Ws breast implants had been
affected by her radiotherapy treatment. But the policy only covered a policyholders first
reconstructive surgery after an accident or surgery if AXA had continuously provided cover
before the surgery took place. And it specifically excluded treatment related to previous
cosmetic surgery  including cosmetic surgery to a reconstructed breast. Mrs W had had
breast implant surgery in 2006  prior to the policy start date  for cosmetic reasons. So it
felt the policy exclusion applied to the circumstances of her claim.
Mrs W was unhappy with AXAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She
also felt AXAs call handlers had treated her rudely.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be partly upheld. He felt the medical 
evidence showed that Mrs Ws implant had hardened due to her previous cancer treatment
and that it was therefore medically necessary to remove it. So he concluded that the cost of
removing the implants should be covered, although he felt it had been reasonable for AXA to
decline to cover the cost of replacing them.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 July 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought it 
had been fair for AXA to turn down Mrs Ws claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mrs Ws policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think AXA
treated Mrs W fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy, as these form the basis of
her contract with AXA. Its important that I make it clear that Mrs Ws policy certificate
indicates that she didnt have extended cancer cover (section 9) under her policy. Cover
under section 9 was an optional extra and Mrs Ws policy certificate states no next to this
particular option. During calls with AXA, Mrs W referred to terms relating to reconstructive
breast surgery, which she felt provided cover for her situation. However, the terms Mrs W
referred to are set out in the extended cancer cover section of the policy and therefore, dont
apply to her claim. Instead, AXA considered Mrs Ws claim in line with section 6 of the policy,
which sets out the eligible treatment it covers.
The policy sets out the circumstances and criteria which AXA uses to assess whether
treatment is eligible or not. One of those criteria states that the treatment is not excluded
from cover by any term in (the) handbook.
Section 6.1(d) says that AXA will pay for:
Your first reconstructive surgery after an accident or following surgery for a medical
condition, provided that:
-We have covered you continuously under a policy of ours since before the accident
or surgery happened; and
-We agree the cost of the treatment in writing before it is done.
Section 6.2 sets out a list of specific treatments that AXA has decided not to cover. One of
these says that AXA wont pay for:
Cosmetic (aesthetic) surgery or treatment, or any treatment relating to previous cosmetic or
reconstructive treatment, including any cosmetic operation to a reconstructed breast.
Ive looked carefully at all of the available evidence and in particular, Mr Ms report. He
stated that: (Mrs W) had developed changes in the right breast secondary to breast cancer
surgery and radiation therapy and these changes are associated with discomfort. Therefore,
she is keen to proceed with replacement of the existing breast implants combined with
capsulotomy on the right.
AXA considered the evidence and felt the claim was specifically excluded from cover. Ive
thought about this carefully to decide whether I think this was a fair conclusion for AXA to
reach.
Having listened to the calls between Mrs W and AXA, Mrs W indicated to AXA that shed had
implants inserted in 2006 for cosmetic reasons. This surgery pre-dated Mrs W taking out the
policy in 2007. So its clear that AXA hadnt been continuously covering Mrs W since prior to
her original implant surgery in 2006. And as such, I dont think she meets the first limb of
the cover conditions set out in 6.1(d).
And in my view, AXA has clearly set out that it wont cover any treatment related to previous
cosmetic treatment. I dont doubt Mrs Ws account to AXA that the radiation therapy had
caused her original implants to harden and become incapsulated. I can entirely understand
why Mrs W wished to undergo surgery. However, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable
for AXA to conclude that the surgery Mrs W had claimed for in 2022 was directly related to
the cosmetic implant surgery shed undergone in 2006. Therefore, I dont currently think it
was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to rely on the exclusion to turn down Mrs Ws claim.
Our investigator felt that AXA should cover Mrs Ws treatment because he considered that
Mr Ms letter showed the surgery was medically necessary. I disagree. While Mr M says thatthe breast changes Mrs W had experienced are associated with discomfort, he didnt
indicate that Mrs W was experiencing discomfort or pain. Neither did he suggest that the
surgery was medically necessary in Mrs Ws case. So I dont think I could reasonably uphold
the complaint on this basis either.
It's clear that Mrs W feels very strongly about this complaint and I sympathise with her
position. But having considered everything, I simply dont think AXA has treated her unfairly
or unreasonably. And while I understand Mrs W thinks AXAs call handlers were rude to her,
having listened to the calls, I think AXAs staff acted in a professional and polite way. I
appreciate Mrs W was understandably upset when she was told that her claim wasnt
covered, but I dont currently think AXAs call handlers acted rudely or inappropriately.
On this basis then, I dont currently think AXA acted unfairly when it turned down Mrs Ws
claim and nor do I think it needs to pay her any compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
AXA accepted my provisional findings. Mrs W didnt. In brief, she felt the claim and complaint 
turned on an interpretation of the policy wording. She wanted to resolve the issue, as she felt 
it had been going on for far too long. She said she has discomfort and, at last check, the 
surface had degraded. She told us that post-surgery, she has been left with a large indent at 
the incision site, which has affected her confidence. She queried what wed suggest she 
should do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs W, I still think it was fair and 
reasonable for AXA to turn down her claim and Ill explain why.
I understand its been some time since Mrs W made her claim and I can understand why she 
would like it to be resolved as soon as possible. Im also aware that my conclusions are 
different to our investigators and I appreciate this is likely to have caused Mrs W frustration 
and disappointment. Im sorry too to hear about the impact of the surgery on Mrs Ws 
confidence. 
However, as I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that AXA has clearly set out 
the cover that Mrs Ws policy provides. And for the reasons I explained above, Im satisfied 
that the circumstances of Mrs Ws claim arent covered by the terms of the contract between 
her and AXA. Im sorry to hear that Mrs W suffered from discomfort and I dont doubt how 
upsetting this situation must be for her. But it remains the case that there simply isnt enough 
medical evidence from Mrs Ws treating surgeon to show that Mrs Ws surgery was 
medically necessary, or that she was in pain or discomfort. Additionally, I dont think I could 
fairly hold AXA responsible for any post-surgical discomfort or issues that Mrs W may now 
be experiencing. So I dont find that there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
direct AXA to accept and pay Mrs Ws claim. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Ws position, I think it was fair and reasonable 
for AXA to turn down her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman