DRN-3600005
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Uk Plc wont refund disputed cash withdrawals made 
from his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr H says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £6,702.37 were made from his 
Barclays credit card account between 10 and 22 November 2019. 
Mr H says he had been using his credit card frequently, but stopped using it in around 
October or November 2019. In November 2019 he says he received a message from 
Barclays and realised his account was near its credit limit, as a result he searched for his 
credit card and found it was missing, so he called Barclays to report the recent transactions 
on his account as fraudulent. Mr H believes the transactions were carried out by a relative of 
his wife who was staying with him at the time, he says his PIN wasnt written down anywhere 
but thinks this person may have overheard him telling his wife his PIN.
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It didnt agree that 
there was evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr H had authorised the withdrawals or 
made them himself because:
the transactions were carried out at ATMs using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN, and 
Mr H had not given a reasonable explanation for how a fraudster could have known 
his PIN
Mr H also holds a current account with Barclays with a debit card, that debit card was 
not reported stolen but was used at the same time and location as some of the 
disputed transactions on Mr Hs credit card
there were no further attempted withdrawals after Mr H reported the fraud to Barclays 
Mr H was using his credit card daily prior to the period of disputed transactions, but 
didnt realise his card was missing for two weeks
As Mr H didnt agree with Barclays decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude whether the withdrawals had been authorised by Mr H, but he felt Mr H 
had acted in a grossly negligent way in allowing his wifes relative to overhear his PIN. 
Mr H responded to say he accepted that he may have been grossly negligent, but that he felt 
Barclays should have stepped in to stop the withdrawals much earlier. Specifically, he refers 
to an £1800 cash withdrawal limit on his credit card account, he feels that Barclays should 
refund anything over that amount. Our investigator asked Barclays about this cash 
withdrawal limit, and Barclays explained that the ATMs that were used (which were not in the 
UK) had processed many of the withdrawals as sales rather than as cash and so the daily 
cash withdrawal limit hadnt been breached.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 June 2022. Barclays made no 
further comments, but Mr H reiterated that he felt Barclays should have put a stop to the 
payments when they reached the £1,800 cash withdrawal limit of his card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr H is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. The terms 
and conditions of Mr Hs account also explain that he wont be liable for transactions made 
using his credit card if it has been taken and used by another party without his permission. 
So, I think the key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Mr H 
did authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Its unlikely that a fraudster would immediately use the same cash machine that Mr H 
had just left, or that on several occasions they would coincidentally use the same cash 
machine moments before Mr H used it 
The disputed withdrawals were made using Mr Hs genuine card and PIN, Mr H has said 
his wifes relative could have overheard him telling his wife the PIN, but he also said in 
the forms he sent to Barclays when reporting the fraud that he had never told his PIN to 
anyone 
No further withdrawals were attempted after Mr H reported the fraud, which suggests 
that the fraudster was aware that Barclays was on notice of fraudulent activity
Mr H was making payments to his credit card during the period of fraudulent activity, 
these payments went over and above the spending he says he did do on the account in 
previous months and repaid some of the fraudulent withdrawals. If Mr H hadnt made 
these withdrawals, then its not clear why he wouldnt have questioned why he was 
repaying more than he had spent
I acknowledge what our investigator has said about whether Mr H may have acted in a 
grossly negligent way, but I dont think thats relevant here.
I also acknowledge what Mr H has said about the cash withdrawal limit on his account, and 
that the volume of the transactions means Barclays should have stepped in earlier to stop 
them. But Im satisfied with Barclays explanation regarding why the £1800 cash withdrawal 
limit wasnt breached. And, in any case, as Im satisfied that Barclays has acted fairly in 
concluding Mr H authorised these payments, I dont think Barclays contacting Mr H sooner 
would have prevented further payments.Taking everything into account, Im intending to find, on balance, that Mr H authorised the 
disputed withdrawals. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them.
I appreciate that Mr H feels Barclays should have stepped in and stopped the transactions 
on his account when they reached the £1,800 cash withdrawal limit of his card. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied with Barclays explanation about why that 
didnt happen. Specifically, there are two main reasons why the cash withdrawal limit didnt 
come into play here. Firstly, that Mr H was making regular payments into his account, and 
those payments would repay the cash withdrawals first, thereby bringing the total balance of 
cash withdrawn down. And secondly, some of the ATMs that were used did not categorise 
the transactions as cash, instead they were processed as card sales meaning they werent 
taken into account as part of the total cash withdrawn on the account. And this wasnt an 
error in Barclays systems, instead it appears to have been a feature of how the ATMs that 
were used worked.
Im satisfied that this explains why the cash withdrawal limit on Mr Hs account didnt 
therefore come into effect and stop any of the transactions. And nothing else that Mr H has 
said changes my decision on this complaint. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr H, but I remain satisfied that Barclays has 
treated him fairly here and is entitled to hold Mr H liable for the disputed withdrawals.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman