DRN-2069618
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) rescheduled his home emergency 
appointment without telling him, causing him to lose a days holiday from work.
What happened
Mr M had HomeCare One with BG which included an annual boiler service. He booked an 
appointment online for his boiler service and took the day off work to be at home for it. The 
engineer didnt turn up and Mr M found that BG had rescheduled the appointment the day 
before without telling him. He received its email the day after the scheduled appointment.
Mr M complained to BG that hed wasted a day of his leave and asked it to rearrange the 
appointment to a date within two weeks or cancel the policy and refund his premiums. He 
also asked it to compensate him at the rate he wouldve been paid that day.
BG looked into Dr Ms complaint and saw that it had called him the day before the 
appointment to reschedule. Mr M didnt answer his phone but BG said it left a message for 
him. Mr M said he didnt get any messages. BG sent him a cheque for £20 as a gesture of 
goodwill but it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold Dr Ms complaint. He explained that the terms and conditions 
of the policy make it clear that an annual service may be rescheduled to accommodate 
emergency appointments. He also explained that the boiler service must be completed 
within the policy year, which isnt necessarily within a calendar year of the previous service. 
Our investigator thought BG had done enough to let Mr M know about the change and its 
payment of £20 was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He thought that BG couldve made more of an effort to contact him to 
reschedule the appointment before he took time off work. He also said that BG incorrectly 
told him it didnt message or email its customers to let them know about cancelled 
appointments.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that BG missed the appointment. So, the key issues to consider are 
whether it was fair for BG to reschedule the appointment and, if it was, whether it did enough 
to let Mr M know.
In line with the terms of the policy, BG can reschedule an appointment for an annual service 
if emergency work takes priority. I think thats fair because I wouldnt expect a routine boiler 
service to be done ahead of, say, the needs of a potentially vulnerable customer waiting to 
have their heating restored. BG said that it rescheduled because of emergency 
appointments and I have no reason to doubt that. 
The policy also says that an annual boiler service isnt necessarily done within a calendar 
year from the previous service. To meet the policy requirements, BG must complete a boiler 
service during the policy year, which may be more or less than a calendar year since the 
previous service. When BG rescheduled the appointment, it was still well within the policy 
year. 
So, now I must consider whether BG did enough to let Mr M know it was changing the 
appointment. I think it did. I understand that BG called Mr M and left a voicemail message 
the day before the planned appointment to say it wouldnt be able to attend. Its records 
support this and I think its likely that notes made on the day are an accurate reflection of 
events.
Mr M says that he didnt get a voicemail message. He acknowledges receiving a call from an 
unknown number on the day before the planned appointment, but he was unable to answer 
at the time. However, Mr M is adamant he didnt get a voicemail message from BG.
Its difficult in situations like this to know exactly what happened, so I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. It seems Mr M accepts BG called him on the day and the 
dispute is about whether it left a voicemail message. Mr M hasnt said he didnt have a 
voicemail facility, so I think if one was available its likely BG wouldve left a message. And if 
BG left a message, I think that wouldve been enough to let Mr M know it wouldnt be 
keeping the service appointment.
Thats not to say I doubt Mr M  he clearly feels strongly about this point. But its entirely 
possible that he didnt receive the message through no fault of BG, such as a technical 
issue. If BG hadnt left a message, I think its more likely there would be further attempts to 
contact Mr M recorded in its notes. I think that because Ive seen it has recorded multiple 
contact attempts on other occasions.
Mr M said BG told him it didnt message or email customers when it cancelled appointments, 
yet it is apparent that it does. Mr M received an email from BG, dated the day before his 
appointment but received the day after, rescheduling his service appointment. While this 
does indeed suggest that BG gave Mr M incorrect information, I dont think it matters here. 
Thats because the information it gave wouldnt have changed what actually happened in 
these circumstances. 
Although BG didnt think it had done anything wrong, it offered Mr M £20 as a gesture of 
goodwill, but he didnt think it was enough. Having considered all the circumstances here, I 
dont agree. I understand that Mr M would like BG to refund his annual premium and pay him 
for his days unpaid leave, but I dont think thats warranted. BG made a reasonable attempt 
to let Mr M know that his appointment was being rescheduled and its actions were in line 
with the terms of the policy. It was helpful that BG paid £20 as a gesture of goodwill, but I 
dont think it did anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do any more.
To sum up, BG rescheduled the annual service appointment to a date within the same policy 
year, in line with the policy terms, so that it could attend to emergency work taking priority. 
Im satisfied that BG called Mr M to notify him of the need to reschedule his annual service. 
Unfortunately he couldnt answer the call at the time, but I think its likely that BG left a message. For unknown reasons, he didnt receive its message, but I dont think its fair to 
hold BG responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman