DRN-2874754
The complaint
Mr I complains Progressive Money Limited mis-sold him his personal loan.
What happened
In September 2016 Progressive contacted Mr I about a secured loan he held with another 
company who are part of the same group as Progressive. They told him his loan with the 
other company was a secured loan, but they thought theyd be able to give him an 
unsecured loan which would work out cheaper for him. 
The loan amount was for around £12,500, and with a loan acceptance fee and admin fee, 
meant the total amount borrowed over 15 years was just over £14,000. With interest of 
around £21,000 the total cost of the loan came to around £35,000.
Mr I signed the paperwork for the loan on 13 October 2016, and the loan completed on 
30 October 2016. In October 2018 Mr I asked for a settlement figure  and he was told itd 
be around £14,000. Mr I settled the account in November 2018.
Unhappy that the total cost of redeeming his loan was higher than the amount hed originally 
borrowed he complained the loan had been mis-sold. He said hed been misled by 
Progressive calling him and telling him a loan with them would be cheaper than the secured 
loan he held with the other company. 
Progressive considered Mr Is concerns. They said theyd called Mr I and explained they 
could offer an unsecured loan  rather than a loan which was secured against his property 
and Mr I was interested in this. They said they carried out a full application including carrying 
out a credit search, and doing an income and expenditure assessment with Mr I. They said 
they told Mr I about the fees, and that he had the option to pay them or add them to the loan 
and he chose to add them to the loan. Progressive said they explained that the majority of 
payments at the beginning of a loan go towards interest, with only a small proportion towards 
the original amount. They said they told Mr I that on early settlement hed pay interest up to 
the date of settlement plus one months additional interest. 
Progressive said Mr I was happy to carry on at this point. A few days later they say he asked 
for further borrowing, which they turned down. They added they provide loans on a non-
advised basis  meaning they give information to their customers for them to decide what 
action to take. Progressive say the loan agreement was returned, and the loan paid out at 
the end of October 2016. They added theyd double checked the settlement figure given in 
October 2018 and had determined it was correct. Because of that, they didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. 
Mr I didnt accept this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but 
found Progressive had explained the fees and charges properly  both on the phone and in 
writing. So, he didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr I didnt agree saying theyd called him explaining hed save money if he took out this loan, 
which he said it didnt, so felt itd been mis-sold. And he said calling an existing customer to 
sell them another loan which costs them more is unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr I would be concerned that hed been sold a loan by a different company in 
the same group as Progressive, to then be sold a loan by Progressive. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this was intentional or inappropriate though, so Ill look exclusively at 
Progressives actions in this decision.
Progressives explanation for getting in touch with Mr I is because they could offer a cheaper 
loan to the one he already had. Mr I says though its cost him more by taking out the 
Progressive loan.
Generally, when a loan is granted its expected that the loan will run its full term  and 
providers are required to set out the total cost of the loan over the full term. In Mr Is case, 
this loan would have incurred a total cost of around £35,000 had it run the full term. In his 
previous loan he borrowed around £2,000 less  and had that loan run the full term would 
have incurred costs totalling over £40,000. The interest rate on this loan was also 3% less 
than on the other one. So, overall, Im satisfied it was cheaper for Mr I to have taken out this 
loan, than remain on the loan with the other company  because despite borrowing a higher 
amount with Progressive itd have cost less overall, due to the lower interest rate.
Ive also looked at what happened during the sales process, to make sure Mr I was given the 
right information to decide about the loan as well  if he wasnt, then it could potentially have 
been mis-sold despite the above. Progressive have said this was a non-advised sale  
meaning theyre required to provide Mr I with clear, fair and not misleading information. This 
also means theyre not required to check the suitability of it for him, its for Mr I to decide if 
the product is right for him. Ive not seen anything to dispute the sale being non-advised, so 
have assessed this section based on that.
Ive listened to the initial sales call on 22 September 2016. In it, there are discussions about 
the charges Mr I will have to pay for taking out this loan and what happens if Mr I wants to do 
an early settlement. The amount borrowed, interest charges and how he needs to pay for 
this are all discussed. So, I do think Progressive have talked him through these fees.
In addition, these fees are all set out in the paperwork Progressive sent out to Mr I in what I 
consider to be a clear enough way for him to understand them. The information I have 
shows it took several weeks for Mr I to return the paperwork, so Im satisfied he had enough 
time to review the terms and decide whether he wanted to agree with them or not. And, 
having returned the signed paperwork, he therefore chose to take out the loan So, having 
been talked through the terms on the phone, and seen them in writing, I dont think the loan 
was mis-sold.
Overall then, Im satisfied Mr I was sold a loan that has worked out cheaper for him, hes 
been given all the correct information to decide if he wanted it, and he chose to take it out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman