DRN-2593570
The complaint
Ms S says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma, has not administered her 
loan accounts correctly. Ms S has tried to arrange a repayment plan for her loans. She says 
she has not been able to do this due to the actions of Satsuma. And she also says Satsuma 
has deliberately misrepresented this situation and misled her, alongside providing poor 
customer service throughout. Ms S would like significant compensation for Satsumas errors. 
Ms S is represented by a third party. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Ms S. Ms S made an 
irresponsible lending complaint about these loans. Ms S couldnt reach agreement with 
Satsuma and she brought this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Ms S was awarded compensation by an ombudsman in respect of the sale of loan 2. After 
the compensation calculation was made Ms S still had an outstanding balance to repay. 
Ms S new complaint concerns Satsumas actions, or its inactions, when they were both 
trying to arrange the repayment of this outstanding balance.  
Satsuma has considered Ms S second complaint. In its Final Response letter, it said, in 
summary, that it has contacted Ms S a reasonable amount of times. It hadnt caused any 
delays or prevented Ms S from starting a repayment plan. So, it didnt uphold her second 
complaint. 
This second complaint was brought to this Service and our adjudicator also didnt uphold it. 
He said he had reviewed the information both sides had provided about the contact Ms S 
has had with Satsuma after the earlier final decision. He didnt find that Satsuma had acted 
unreasonably or delayed responding to Ms S correspondence. He also didnt find any 
persuasive evidence that Satsuma had misled Ms S or misrepresented the situation. 
Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for the same reasons that she had made when 
she complained. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Ill firstly say that I have a statutory duty to be impartial when looking at a complaint. So, I 
dont act on behalf of Satsuma or Ms S. And whilst I can make a compensation award this 
shouldnt be on the basis that it is to punish a business. It is to put things right, as far as 
possible, where they have gone wrong due to mistakes made by the business. And lastly, I 
must look at each complaint individually, so whilst I can consider the individual 
circumstances of this complaint it isnt my role to consider the issues Ms S representative 
has raised about Satsumas wider business practices. 
Ive been provided a copy of the email correspondence between Ms S and Satsuma that 
took place after the final decision that I have referred to above. And Ms S representative has 
provided detailed commentary on the contact between them both, and why this matter is not 
resolved. Ive reviewed these documents alongside everything else I have been provided. I 
wont comment in detail on either of these documents as both parties to the complaint are 
fully aware of them. 
But having looked at Ms S complaint I dont think it should succeed. I will outline the reasons 
why below. 
Having looked at the timings of the correspondence I think its reasonable to say that, whilst 
both sides have been corresponding about this issue for some time, I havent seen any 
material delay by either party. There have been some shorter delays at times, but I dont 
think these led to a repayment plan not been agreed. 
Ive gone on to look at why a repayment plan was not put in place. Its relevant to say that 
the decision Ms S has received about irresponsible lending (her first complaint), and which 
she accepted, said that Ms S should receive compensation for loan 2 only. The ombudsman 
made no award in respect of loan 1. So Ms S would need to repay any outstanding capital 
and interest for loan 1, and any outstanding capital for loan 2. There would be no 
adjustments made to the credit file for loan 1 and only adverse information would be 
removed from loan 2. This settlement is now legally binding on both parties and I cannot 
revisit it. 
But looking at the email correspondence it seems reasonable to say that Ms S wanted to 
proceed on a different basis to this. In her email straight after the earlier decision she asked 
that Satsuma revisit the mis-selling complaint on loan 1. She also requested both loans were 
removed from her credit file. And in the subsequent emails she made an offer to make 
repayments to loan 2 only and then to loan 1, after loan 2 was repaid. I can see Ms S made 
alternative suggestions in time, but they havent significantly departed from this. 
Satsuma didnt agree to these repayment terms. And it did inform Ms S of this. And having 
looked at why it didnt accept the repayment plan terms Ms S offered this I dont think it has 
acted unreasonably. In fact, it would have been acting contrary to the legally binding 
settlement that has already been reached if it had accepted them. 
So, overall, I dont think Satsuma has acted incorrectly here. Nor do I think it has 
misrepresented the position or provided any false information. And I dont think its 
reasonable to say that any delay in the setting up of the repayment plans is solely due to 
Satsumas actions. So Im not upholding Ms S complaint. 
It remains that Satsuma needs to implement the compensation an ombudsman awarded on 
Ms S first complaint (the one about irresponsible lending). And in doing this it may need to 
arrange a repayment plan with Ms S. I would remind Satsuma that it should treat Ms S fairly 
when it does this. 
And whilst this is the case Ms S should be aware that if she isnt able to enter into a 
repayment plan then this may adversely affect the information credit reference agencies 
hold about her going forward. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman