DRN-3249022
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has failed to fairly settle a claim 
made on his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs home was flooded in June 2019 when heavy rainfall led to water ingress within the 
basement rooms of the property. Mr G notified Lloyds of the claim and it agreed to send out 
its agent to organise a schedule of works and arrange any necessary removals and storage. 
Work was first completed on the property to prevent water coming into the habitable areas 
from the soil filled areas of the basement as a temporary solution. This took place at the start 
of August 2019.Following this, Mr G needed to call and notify Lloyds that this failed several 
times when further heavy rain resulted in more water ingress into the property. Mr G 
questioned at the time when a lasting repair would take place to stop his home from flooding 
again and stressed the impact the damage was having on his family.
On 16 December 2019 Lloyds explained to Mr G the repair works it was proposing to 
undertake to repair the damage from the water ingress and how these would reduce the risk 
of this happening again. The scheme put forward included the proposal to install a sump 
pump within the uninhabited area of the basement.
Mr G didnt agree with this option. He felt the proposed scheme would not provide a lasting 
repair to the issue and he had concerns about how this solution was putting him back in the 
position he was in prior to the flood. He felt hed be left in a worse position with his house still 
at risk of flooding. And he said the scheme proposed could have a significant negative 
impact on the value of the property and would require regular ongoing costs. He also 
stressed how the temporary scheme already in place had failed a number of times.
In February 2020 Mr G complained to Lloyds about how his claim had been handled. He 
explained his concerns about the scheme offered to repair his property and that the service 
received from his claims handler at Lloyds had caused delays. Lloyds offered £150.00 to 
compensate for delays that had been added through the handling of the claim but it said it 
agreed the scheme offered was a fair solution. It also asked that Mr G respond to an email 
sent in January 2020 asking for details of the pre-purchase information to assist with the 
claim enquiries.  
In June 2020 Mr G chased Lloyds for an answer on what was happening with his property 
and repairs. Lloyds said it still needed the pre-purchase information it had asked for in its 
earlier communication. Mr G said hed stated previously to the investigator at Lloyds that 
these arent available.
Lloyds asked for this information again in July 2020 and commented on what it had been 
able to establish was provided previously to the local council. Mr G again confirmed he didnt 
have these documents and so the request couldnt be fulfilled. He also informed Lloyds at 
this point that because the property had still not been repaired hed needed to move his 
eldest daughter to alternative accommodation as the condition of the property was having a 
negative impact on her health.  
In August 2020, Mr G brought his complaint to this service.
In September 2020 Lloyds wrote to Mr G setting out the details of the cash settlement it was 
making for his claim. It paid £31,040.40 to Mr G plus VAT to cover the cost of the repair 
works to his property following the flood damage. This money was paid directly to Mr Gs 
bank account without acceptance of the amount paid. 
Mr G made no contact with Lloyds after the offer was made but sought his own quotes for 
repair works which he felt were more suitable and lasting. His architect proposed a different 
scheme to that put forward by Lloyds. This scheme didnt include the need for a sump pump 
and included underpinning. It also involved the removal of the soil from some of the 
uninhabited areas of the basement with a new permanent floor being put down in these 
areas.  
Our investigator passed the details of Mr Gs proposed scheme to Lloyds for its 
consideration. It said that it felt this scheme involved work that wasnt needed to complete a 
lasting repair of the property and the addition of a new floor to the area previously 
uninhabited meant there was an element of betterment within the scheme. It didnt agree to 
cover the additional cost of this as quoted by Mr Gs builder.
Our investigator looked at Mr Gs complaint and said he thought Lloyds needed to do 
something else to put things right. He agreed the settlement for the repair costs was fair as 
he wasnt persuaded the scheme Mr Gs architect had proposed was needed. And he felt 
there was elements of betterment within this. But he felt it was fair that Lloyds pay for some 
of the cost incurred when Mr G felt it was necessary to move his daughter and fiance to 
alternative accommodation due to the damage and lack of repairs. He recommended the 
accommodation costs be equivalent to a two bed properties average rental cost in the local 
area. And said this should be paid from when the alternative accommodation was first taken 
up until when it is reasonable to believe the works could have been completed. 
Lloyds agreed to the recommendation and offered £3750. This represented just over six 
months rental payments at £600 pcm. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator.  He said the scheme Lloyds has proposed does not 
prevent the property from flooding again. Lloyds scheme does not extend past the staircase 
but starts on the opposite side of the wall. He said water is entering the property from here 
and the work his builder has carried out is necessary to stop the property from flooding 
again.
He said the offer for the cost of the alternative accommodation costs is not sufficient. He was 
forced to separate his family and rented a property in the most appropriate location to 
alleviate the stress and impact on his daughter. There was no gain from this and the two-bed 
property was rented because he could not afford to rent a like for like property and move his 
entire family out even though this would have been preferrable. The separation of the family 
has caused significant distress and this has not been acknowledged at any point.
He didnt think the offer made by Lloyds was sufficient to cover the replacement costs for his 
fixtures and fittings. He exampled a bespoke solid wood painted tv/wine rack which has a like for like replacement from the same supplier at £6500. The offer of £1000 to cover this 
and other items comes well short of what is needed.  
Because Mr G didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
The repairs and settlement offered
It isnt disputed that Mr Gs policy provides cover for the damage caused by the flood, but it 
is the proposed scheme and cost of this scheme now paid to Mr G as a cash settlement that 
is.
Mr G feels strongly the repairs proposed and subsequent settlement inline with the value of 
these repairs to Lloyds isnt fair. Hes raised questions about how this can be seen to be 
placing him in the situation he was in before as he feels the changes with Lloyds scheme 
would result in negative changes to his property and potentially devalue it.
As our investigator highlighted, Mr Gs policy has a general exclusion for Loss of Value with 
it excluding the following:
Any loss or reduction in the market value resulting from the repair or replacement of the lost 
or damaged property, or depreciation.
It hasnt been shown that the different scheme would have reduced the value of the property. 
But even if it had been and while I understand that Mr G may be concerned about this, there 
isnt a requirement on Lloyds to cover it. 
The policy also makes it clear that Lloyds can decide how to settle the claim and this can 
include either repairing the damage or paying money for the repairs to be completed. Any 
repairs completed should be effective and lasting and the cash settlement should cover the 
cost of these repairs if Lloyds decide not to complete the work itself. 
Both Lloyds and Mr G have provided commentary from their own respective engineers on 
why the scheme proposed by each is the most appropriate. And both have explained the 
reservations about the alternative proposed.
There is a number of key differences between the two and the impact on Mr Gs property. 
Our investigator felt that both schemes proposed offered an effective and lasting repair 
solution, but he felt the scheme proposed by Mr Gs engineer also included elements of 
betterment. And this meant the repair would not just be making an effective lasting repair, 
but also improve Mr Gs home and it wasnt fair to expect Lloyds to cover the additional cost 
of this.
Lloyds said it identified the water ingress as coming through the retaining wall entering the 
property at the rear of the stairs. It proposed a scheme within the uninhabited area that it felt 
would stop water from entering the current inhabited area. It was designed to allow any 
future water flowing into the property to percolate back into soil within this uninhabited area. This would be done through surface tanking and a drainage channel built through excavating 
a small area of the soil mounds in the uninhabited area. 
The scheme also included the use of a sump pump to carry away the excess water. Lloyds 
later said this could be removed if needed as the proposed waterproofed bunded wall would 
be 500mm high. As the water level hadnt exceeded 20mm previously, it felt this would be 
effective on its own. 
Mr Gs engineer proposed a different scheme which involved the underpinning of the 
property, the removal of the bunded soil mounds in the current uninhabited area and a new 
concrete slab built in its place. The engineer said the following as to why this was required:
We discussed methods for making the basement watertight and also to stabilise the 
foundation to the front of the basement
The front wall foundations were exposed above the lower ground floor level and with the sub 
soil being very granular the footings were at risk of being undermined especially with water 
flowing from the soil behind this wall.
Mr Gs engineers proposed scheme meant as well as the cause of the current water ingress 
into the habitable areas being repaired, the previous uninhabitable areas would also become 
habitable. And in view of a future risk, stabilising the front foundation through underpinning 
was proposed. 
The question is whether, this scheme and the preventative nature of the work  designed 
primarily to reduce the risk of future undernimming of the footings was needed. Having 
considered everything, I dont think it was or is a proportionate repair and the scheme 
proposed by Lloyds would have provided a lasting and effective repair to the ingress or 
water identified. 
Mr G has said the watercourse changed following a prolonged period of dry hot weather 
followed by the heavy rainfall and therefore the property experienced the flood damage. Its 
likely this is the case as the flood wasnt an isolated event with further damage being caused 
by later rain fall. But I dont think it means Lloyds need to consider underpinning the property 
to rectify the water ingress to the habitable areas. 
Both Lloyds and Mr Gs engineer agree the point of water ingress and both schemes 
proposed, provide a means of stopping future water ingress to the habitable areas of the 
basement. But Mr Gs scheme also removes the risk of water ingress to the areas currently 
uninhabitable.  
Lloyds engineers said the following which demonstrates the difference in the two schemes:
The two schemes are very different in that the solution we proposed simply prevents the 
water coming into the inhabited space, and the insureds solutions provides a tanking 
solution to all walls of the uninhabited space (which will cause the need to remove bunded 
earth to allow for underpinning), but allows the benefit of creating habitable space, which 
puts the basement into a better position than before the flooding incident.
I think its clear the scheme proposed by Mr G does better the property and the solution isnt 
needed to rectify the damage caused by the flooding or to stop ingress of water to the 
habitable areas again.In his correspondence with the loss adjuster, Mr G explained hed always planned to make 
the uninhabited area of the property habitable in the future and if Lloyds scheme was 
implemented, this future cost would be greater. This may be the case, but I dont think this is 
reason to say its proposed scheme is an unreasonable repair for the property. Or that it 
wouldnt be an effective lasting repair to the damage caused by the flood. And I dont think 
Lloyds has made an unfair claims decision when its said it wont cover the additional cost of 
the scheme proposed by Mr G.   
I also have to bear in mind that there hasnt been anything provided to show there is 
currently any movement of the property following the water ingress or that the soil under the 
footings is being removed. In the absence of this, the additional work is preventative work to 
a future risk and it isnt fair to expect Lloyds to cover this as part of the claim for the water 
ingress. 
Fixtures and fittings
Mr G has raised concerns about the value of the cash settlement that relates to a built in 
TV/wine rack. Hes said the like for like replacement cost of this is £6500 and the cash 
settlement only allowed £1000 for this.
Lloyds has said that its settlement figure included £2000 for this which it thinks is fair.
Lloyds is entitled to settle a claim in a number of ways as Ive explained previously. But 
when covering the cost of an item that can be replaced like for like, Id expect it on 
demonstration of the cost of this like for like replacement to cover to the cost if it isnt 
intending to complete or attempt to complete work itself. So I think its fair to ask Lloyds to 
reconsider the sum for Mr Gs built in TV/wine rack if he can provide an invoice or quote for 
the repair. 
This has been provided to this service and is more than the £2000 already paid for this item. 
Our investigator will forward this on to Lloyds for consideration inline with the policy limits.
Claim handling and alternative accommodation
I set the timeline of this claim out within my background and I think its fair to say there was a 
number of delays with the claim handling and Mr G was left with the damage to his property 
and no update on the potential repairs for a significant period of time. During this time he had 
to take the decision to rent alternative accommodation for his fiance and stepdaughter as 
his stepdaughters bedroom was in the basement level. He said it became untenable for her 
to remain in her room due to the ongoing need for repair and this was having a negative 
impact on her health.  
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds consider Mr Gs claim for alternative 
accommodation at the rate it felt was reflective for a similar property local to his house. He 
didnt think it should cover the entire cost of this as the rental property for Mr Gs fiance and 
stepdaughter was in a different town where rental prices are higher. Lloyds agreed to this 
recommendation and has agreed to cover the associated utility and council tax costs of this 
property.
Mr G said the property was closer to his stepdaughters school and it meant travel costs 
werent incurred as a result. He couldnt afford to rent a property and cover the mortgage on 
his house that would meet his entire families need so he chose this option. It meant that he 
didnt need to try and cover the cost of rent and travel expenses. 
I understand the difficult situation Mr G found himself in and that covering the cost of another property was not something he decided to do lightly. And I see the logic of trying to reduce 
the impact of this were possible, so removing the need to cover travel costs as well as the 
rental costs. But I do agree with our investigator that travel costs are something that would 
always need to be covered from the normal place of residence and to remove this cost 
provides a benefit. It has been shown there is a difference in rent cost in the immediate local 
area of the property when compared to the cost of the accommodation used by Mr Gs 
fiance and I dont think its fair that Lloyds bare this extra cost on the basis that it saved the 
travel time and cost. 
So with the inclusion of the utility and council bills paid when at the alternative 
accommodation for the period of six months, I think the offer made to cover a percentage of 
the rent for this period is fair.
I think its clear this claim and its handling has had a significant impact on Mr G and his 
family. The need to separate his family as a result of the slow handling of the claim is 
something that hes said has caused great hardship to them all and I think this is entirely 
understandable. I think Lloyds need to reflect the impact of this distress and inconvenience 
and the offer made for delays when it first considered the complaint isnt sufficient to reflect 
this. 
I think it should increase the amount of distress and inconvenience to £1000. As its 
previously paid £150, a further payment of £850 should now be made. I feel this is a more 
appropriate level of compensation for the impact of Lloydss failings in the handling of this 
claim.
Putting things right
 Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must do the following to put things right with Mr Gs 
complaint:
- Pay the alternative accommodation costs previously offered to the sum of £3750;
- Pay the utility and council tax costs incurred during this period (upon receipt of these 
costs);
- Upon receipt of the invoices or quotes for repair, reconsider the cost of the amount 
paid for the tv cabinet damaged in the flood in line with the policy terms;
- Pay Mr G a further £850 for the distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman