DRN-2479167
The complaint
P is a limited company. It complains about the charges applied to its business current 
account by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
One of Ps directors, Ms R, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
Last year, Ms R raised a complaint with HSBC about the charges being applied to Ps 
business current account. She was unhappy that monthly charges of £5.50, which had later 
risen to £6.50, had been applied since July 2015  particularly as P hadnt utilised any 
additional services, and in light of the service it had received.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It said the monthly fee was an Account Maintenance Fee, 
charged to all business current account holders in line with its terms and conditions. So 
Ms R referred her concerns to us.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. She said that the fees had 
been applied in line with the banks tariff and as provided for under the terms and conditions 
of the account. She also noted that P had complained about the level of charges before, 
after a period of free banking had ended in 2015  so she thought it had been aware of 
them.
Ms R didnt accept our investigators view. She said that while shed been aware of the 
charges, she still didnt think they were justified in light of the service HSBC had provided. 
So the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The Account Maintenance Fees in question have been applied to Ps account in line with 
both the terms and conditions of its account and HSBCs Business Price List. 
I dont think Ms R is questioning the banks contractual entitlement to apply the fees  and 
note she accepts that she was aware of them. Rather, I understand Ms R doesnt think the 
bank justified the fees. But the Price List explains that the charge is for the provision of the 
account, so I dont think any further justification is needed. 
I appreciate P may not have utilised any additional services, but this doesnt change things  
the bank is entitled to charge for the services it provides, and here that is the provision of the 
account itself. Its a matter for the bank to decide how much it charges for such services  
and the amounts in question here arent out of line with those across the industry, or so high 
as to pose questions about their fairness.
I understand that Ms R doesnt think the charges are fair in light of the service P has 
received from HSBC. But if P wasnt happy with the charges  or the level of service it was 
receiving  it was free to shop around and, ultimately, seek alternative banking facilities 
elsewhere. And of course, it is also open to P to raise a complaint about any particular 
instances of service that it is unhappy with.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman