DRN-3735717
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Vitality Health Limited has turned down a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
Mrs Bs represented by Mr B.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I consider to be the key events.
Mrs B was unfortunately suffering from abdominal pain. She met with a private GP, who 
referred her to a specialist consultant surgeon, who Ill call Mr N. On 23 March 2022, Mrs B 
was assessed by Mr N, who provisionally diagnosed her with diverticulitis and recommended 
urgent blood tests and a CT scan.
On 24 March 2022, Mr N reviewed Mrs Bs condition. He noted shed been on antibiotics for 
24 hours. But he said that if there was any deterioration in her condition, shed require 
inpatient admission for treatment with IV antibiotics.
Subsequently, on 25 March 2022, as the CT scan showed inflammation in Mrs Bs bowel;  
Mr N recommended that she should be admitted for IV antibiotic treatment. She was 
admitted later that day and was discharged three days later.
Mrs B made a claim on her private medical insurance policy for the costs shed incurred. 
Vitality covered the costs of Mrs Bs outpatient consultations. But it declined to pay for her 
inpatient admission. Thats because it considered the admission to have been an 
emergency/urgent admission, which it said wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
Unhappy with Vitalitys decision, Mr B asked us to look into Mrs Bs complaint. He said Mrs B 
felt her inpatient admission had been a planned admission, in line with the policy terms. He 
felt Mrs Bs admission had effectively been planned since 23 March 2022  during her first 
consultation with Mr N. This had been more than 24 hours before her actual admission and 
so he felt it was covered by the terms of the insurance contract.
Our investigator didnt think that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought it had 
been fair for Vitality to turn down Mrs Bs claim. Thats because she thought itd been 
reasonable for Vitality to conclude that the inpatient admission had been an emergency, 
rather than for planned treatment. 
Mr B disagreed. He provided further evidence from Mr N, which he considered supported 
Mrs Bs position. He maintained that from Mrs Bs first appointment, shed been informed 
she might require admission to hospital at some point. He felt that Mrs Bs admission 
couldve been booked at any point from 23 March 2022, giving more than 24 hours notice.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make clear that this decision will only 
consider whether it was fair for Vitality to turn down Mrs Bs claim. Mrs B initially also 
complained about the service shed received from Vitality at the time of her admission. But 
Mr B has now confirmed that Mrs B would like us to concentrate on Vitalitys claims decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I think it was fair for Vitality to turn 
down her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Bs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Vitality handled 
her claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mrs B and Vitality. Page seven of the policy terms sets out a summary of cover and 
exclusions. The terms say that Vitality doesnt cover emergency treatment. This term is set 
out in more detail on page 19. This says:
We will not pay for the following treatments:
emergency treatment, by which we mean: 
 treatment in an Accident & Emergency unit or other urgent care centre
 any admission to hospital that was scheduled less than 24 hours in advance
However, we will cover admission to hospital for a surgical procedure that immediately 
follows an out-patient appointment with a consultant booked at least 24 hours in advance 
providing: 
 you are referred to a consultant following a face-to-face appointment with a GP, or 
video consultation with a Vitality GP, and
 it was not known that admission would be required when the consultant   
appointment was booked, and 
 your consultant appointment does not take place in an Accident & Emergency unit 
or other urgent care centre, and 
 it is for treatment eligible under your plan.
I think Vitalitys terms make it clear that it wont cover hospital admissions which havent 
been scheduled at least 24 hours in advance. Vitality considers that Mrs Bs inpatient 
admission falls within its definition of emergency treatment. So Ive carefully considered the 
available medical evidence to decide whether this was a reasonable conclusion for it to 
draw.
First, Ive looked carefully at Mr Ns letters to Mrs Bs treating GP. Following Mrs Bs first 
appointment with Mr N, on 23 March 2022, Mr N said:
I have recommended urgent bloods and a CT abdomen and pelvis prior to further review.
Theres no indication in Mr Ns first letter that he had discussed the possibility of booking Mrs 
B in for inpatient IV treatment. It simply makes it clear that hed recommended urgent tests 
ahead of a further review.
Next, Ive looked closely at Mr Ns letter dated 24 March 2022, following Mrs Bs second appointment with him. He stated:
She has been on Augmentin 625mg tds for the past 24 hours and in view of her clinical 
improvement I have suggested ongoing observation. However I have also recommended 
review within 24 hours and repeat bloods.
If there is any deterioration whatsoever she will require inpatient admission with a view 
towards iv antibiotics. I look forward to reviewing her tomorrow.
I appreciate Mr B feels that this letter makes it clear that Mr N had effectively planned Mrs 
Bs admission for the following day and that therefore, the treatment should be covered. But I 
disagree. In my view, the letter indicates that Mrs B was receiving antibiotic treatment for her 
condition and that at point, she seemed to be improving. This doesnt suggest that at that 
point, inpatient admission had been booked or arranged, simply that Mr N would review her 
condition on the next day. Instead, Mr N stated that if there was any deterioration in Mrs Bs 
condition  in other words, if her condition worsened  then shed require inpatient 
admission. 
On the following day, 25 March 2022, Mr N noted that Mrs B appeared unwell and that a CT 
scan had found a 15cm section of her bowel was inflamed. It was at this point that Mr N said:
Having discussed this further, my recommendation is that she is admitted for 3 -5 days 
worth of iv Tazocin in order to reduce the inflammatory process. I will be in contact 
subsequent to her admission.
The medical evidence (which was sent to Mrs Bs private GP in the hospitals urgent care 
centre) shows that Mrs B was admitted to hospital on the same day  the evening of 25 
March 2022, for IV antibiotic treatment. As such then, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Vitality to conclude that this was emergency treatment in line with the definition Ive set out 
above. While its clear that Mr N had considered the possibility that Mrs B might need IV in-
patient treatment, I dont think theres enough evidence to conclude that this would be a 
definite or planned, scheduled admission. I find that the evidence indicates, on balance, that 
Mr N felt inpatient treatment was only needed if Mrs Bs condition didnt improve.
Mr B provided further evidence from Mr N, dated 16 August 2022, and Ive considered this 
carefully. Vitality has had the chance to review this evidence and told us that it didnt change 
its position. Like our investigator, having considered the letter, I still dont think it 
demonstrates that Mrs Bs inpatient treatment should be covered. In reaching that 
conclusion, Ive placed particular weight on the following comments:
(Mrs B) was initially reviewed on the 23rd of March and required daily review thereafter.
In view of the presumed diagnosis of diverticulitis, I recommended that if her symptoms did 
not improve through conservative measures, consideration would need to be given to 
inpatient admission with iv antibiotics.
She was not necessarily admitted as an emergency but more of an urgent admission, later 
that week.
I appreciate that Mr N has stated that Mrs B wasnt necessarily admitted as an emergency. 
However, I think his letter makes it clear that Mrs Bs admission was urgent in nature. And 
that it followed a failure of her symptoms to improve after the original oral antibiotic course 
shed been prescribed. In my view, this letter doesnt show, on balance, that Mrs Bs 
admission was scheduled or pre-booked more than 24 hours before her admission. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to maintain that Mrs Bs claim fell within its 
definition of emergency treatment.Overall, I find that Vitality acted fairly when it concluded that Mrs Bs claim wasnt covered by 
the policy terms. So while I sympathise with her position, as I appreciate shes been left out 
of pocket, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Vitality to 
pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman