DRN-3513416
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Nationwide Building Society lent to her irresponsibly when it 
increased the credit limit on her credit card.
What happened
Miss B took the credit card out in 2010 with an opening credit limit of £3,200. In February 
2012 the credit limit was increased to £4,200.
Miss B says she had an income of £30,000 per year when she took the card out. However, 
shed subsequently left work to have her son and was receiving no income at all in 2012. 
She received income support from 2013 and in 2015 she went back to work part-time, 
earning about £900 per month.
Miss B says that Nationwide failed to carry out sufficient checks prior to offering her the 
credit increase. If it had, it would have realized that her situation had changed significantly 
from when she first applied for the card. In particular, she had a lot of other borrowing that 
she was struggling to repay. In addition, she was experiencing domestic violence and her 
then husband was controlling her finances. As a result, her overall debt increased and she 
began having to prioritise making the minimum payment on this and other cards, which left 
her with very little left each month to cover necessities for herself and her son such as food 
and fuel to get to work.
Nationwide says the offer to increase limits is based on the activity and management of the 
card account and that Miss B was managing it well at that point which showed that she was 
finding it affordable. Miss B had also scored well on a lending overview.
Our investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint. She thought that Nationwide had acted unfairly 
in not carrying out additional checks. Nationwide disagrees with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide needed to make proportionate checks to determine whether the lending was 
affordable and sustainable for Miss B. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should 
make. But the kinds of things I expect lenders to consider include the type and amount of 
credit, the borrowers income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, 
as well as the consumers personal circumstances.
When Nationwide increased Miss Bs credit limit by £1,000 in February 2012, it reviewed 
how the account was being maintained at that time. It says it saw nothing that would indicate 
that Miss B was having trouble managing the account. It is the case that Miss B was not 
using her full existing credit limit at the time and that in the previous month shed paid off 
£200 which was more than the minimum repayment. Based on this information alone, I 
agree that Nationwide shouldnt have had any concerns about raising the credit limit. 
However, that doesnt paint the full picture of Miss Bs circumstances at the time.
In addition to assessing how the account was being managed, Nationwide also carried out a 
lending overview. The lending overview suggested that Miss B was earning around £21,000. 
This was an estimate based on internal and external information. The review also showed 
that she had unsecured debts of just over £26,000. Thats a high amount of borrowing when 
compared to her annual income and could suggest that further lending here may have been 
unsustainable.
Miss B says she wasnt earning anything at the time, or at best she was on income support. 
Therefore, its likely that Nationwides estimate of her income was widely inaccurate. 
However, even if she had been earning £21,000, her level of debt was more than that, 
showing that she was heavily indebted. I consider that this should have prompted 
Nationwide to carry out further checks to try and gain a more in-depth understanding of Miss 
Bs finances before offering her more credit. Had it carried out further checks, its likely that it 
would have come to light that Miss B was not working at the time. As such, given her already 
high level of debt, I think its more likely than not that it would have concluded that any 
additional lending would have been unaffordable to her.
Taking everything into account, I dont think that Nationwide should have increased Miss Bs 
credit limit because her existing lending appeared to be becoming unaffordable to her. 
Therefore, its decision to extend Miss Bs credit limit in February 2012 was unfair.
Putting things right
As it wasnt fair that Nationwide increased Miss Bs credit limit above £3,200, it should refund 
any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that amount.
Therefore, Nationwide should:
Rework the account, removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £3,200 from the date of the credit limit increase in February 2012.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss B along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Nationwide should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after the February 2012 credit limit increase regarding this account from Miss Bs 
credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding amount still exceeds £3,200, Nationwide 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss B for the remaining amount. 
Once Miss B has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after the February 2012 credit increase in relation to the account should be removed 
from her credit file.
Nationwide has sold the debt to a third party. Therefore, it should arrange to either 
buy back the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set 
out above is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If Nationwide intends to apply the 
refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it mjust do so after deducting tax.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should pay fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman