DRN-4502220
The complaint
Mr S complains Wise Payments Limited trading as Wise didnt do enough to protect him 
when he was the victim of a fraud.
What happened
Mr S, who is represented by a claims management company, has a number of accounts 
including an account with Wise.
On 13 October 2022 Mr S says he received a phone call from an individual claiming to be 
from HMRC saying that he was wanted for not paying a tax bill and tax evasion. He says he 
was told hed have to pay refundable fees to clear his name. Mr S says hed recently moved 
to the UK and so wasnt aware that this was a scam.
Mr S says he made five payments in total to an account whose details he was given. He 
says he did so having moved money to his Wise account from two other accounts he held  
and he says that some of the money he moved was money hed borrowed from a friend. He 
made payments totalling £10,905.
Mr S says he checked the number calling him belonged to HMRC and questioned how 
someone else had managed to steal his identity, which is what hed been told had likely 
happened, before making any payments. He also says he was scared. Mr S says he got cut 
off after making the fifth payment and it was after this and after speaking to a friend that he 
realised hed been scammed. He called Wise to say hed been scammed.
Wise investigated what had happened and let Mr S know that it had taken steps to make 
sure any payments he made to the same account would in the future be blocked. Mr S 
subsequently complained saying that Wise should have intervened as the activity on his 
account was unusual. Mr S said he wouldnt have fallen victim to the scam had it done so.
Wise looked into Mr Ss complaint and said none of the payments had seemed unusual and 
that it had, therefore, done nothing wrong. Mr S complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and said that they thought Wise should 
warned Mr S when he tried to make the third payment given the value of payments hed sent 
by then, the time in which hed sent them and the fact that they were all going to the same 
beneficiary. Our investigator thought that the scam would have been exposed had Wise 
done so. In other words, Wise missed an opportunity to prevent further loss to Mr S. In the 
circumstances, our investigator said that they thought Wise should refund £3,765 plus an 
additional 8% interest from 13 October 2022 until the date of settlement.
Both parties disagreed. Wise said there was no transactional history to go on and the 
amounts involved werent unusual for it. Mr S said the second payment should have flagged 
as unusual. So, this complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision saying, in summary, that I thought that Wise 
should have provided a tailored warning to Mr S when he attempted to make the second 
payment. I said that had it done so I thought that Mr S would have realised that he was 
speaking to a scammer and wouldnt have gone ahead. In the circumstances, I said that I 
thought Wise should refund from the second payment onwards  in other words, a total of 
£6,231  plus an additional 8% interest from 13 October 2022 until the date of settlement.
Both parties were invited to comment on my provisional decision. Mr S accepted my 
decision. Wise didnt reply.
In my provisional decision I said the following:
In this case, Im satisfied that Mr S made five payments on 13 October 2022  of 
£4,674, £2,475, £951, £905 and £1,900  and that there was no transactional history 
to go on. The payments were made at 14:54, 15:12, 15:24, 16:26 and 17:02 
respectively. There appears to be no dispute that these payments went to a scammer 
who was impersonating HMRC.
Our investigator said that they thought Wise should have warned Mr S when he tried to 
make the third payment  as hed sent over £7,000 in total to the same beneficiary in 
the previous half an hour by then. Mr S says Wise should have contacted him when he 
tried to make the second payment  as that would have taken the total that hed sent 
to the same beneficiary to over £5,000 in less than twenty minutes. Wise says none of 
these payments flagged as unusual, nor should they have done given that it is a 
money remittance provider and payments like this arent unusual for its customers.
I accept that payments that a bank might consider to be unusual wont necessarily be 
considered unusual by a money remittance provider because customers will often use 
a money remittance provider differently to a current account at a bank. In this case, 
however, I agree with our investigator that Wise should have contacted Mr S when he 
tried to make the third payment. Mr S hadnt used his account before, so Wise didnt 
have any historic account activity to compare the fraudulent pattern of transactions 
against. But I do think in this case there was enough to say the third payment was 
unusual. Thats because the third payment took the total amount Mr S had sent to this 
new beneficiary to £8,100 in less than half an hour  the first payment was sent at 
14:54 and the third one was sent at 15:24  and three separate payments to the same 
beneficiary in less than half an hour isnt normal. One payment might be more normal, 
maybe two depending on the circumstances, but not three. Id go further. In this case, I 
think the second payment  which took the total amount Mr S had sent to this new 
beneficiary to over £7,000 in less than 20 minutes  was sufficiently unusual to be of 
concern.
In cases where there are concerning or contradictory factors in the information 
available to the business, and the payment being sent is between £5,000 and £10,000 
wed expect a business like Wise to provide a tailored warning. In this case, given that 
the payments are so close together, I think Wise should have treated them as if theyd 
been one payment. I, therefore, think Wise should have provided Mr S with a tailored 
warning  as if Mr S had sent one payment of between £5,000 and £10,000 in 
circumstances that were concerning. The question I have to decide is whether, in this 
particular case, a tailored warning would have made a difference.Wed expect a business like Wise to be aware of some of the most common types of 
scams. Two particularly common scams are HMRC scams and scams involving the 
police calling to tell people to transfer money to a safe account. Had Wise warned Mr 
S of those scams, Im satisfied that he would have realised he was speaking to a 
scammer and not gone ahead and made any further payments. In other words, I agree 
with our investigator that Wise missed an opportunity to prevent further loss to Mr S. I 
think that should have happened when Mr S tried to make the second payment, 
however, rather than the third payment. In the circumstances, I agree that Wise should 
refund £6,231 plus an additional 8% interest from 13 October 2022 until the date of 
settlement.
Having re-considered everything, I remain of the view that Wise should have provided Mr S 
with a tailored warning when he attempted to make his second payment. And I remain of the 
view that Mr S wouldnt have gone ahead and made further payments had it done so. In 
other words, I remain of the view that Wise missed an opportunity to prevent further loss to 
Mr S. 
Putting things right
Given what Ive just said, I remain of the view that Wise should refund from the second 
payment onwards  in other words, a total of £6,231  plus an additional 8% interest from 13 
October 2022 until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Wise Payments Limited to 
refund from the second payment onwards  in other words, a total of £6,231  plus an 
additional 8% interest from 13 October 2022 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman