DRN-3135052
The complaint
Mr C complained that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr C took out three loans as follows:
Loan 
numberDate Taken Date 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMonthly 
Repayment
1 13/11/2020 16/1/2021 3 £300 £139.00
2 19/01/2021 1/3/2021 3 £400 £174.06
3 1/03/2021 22/3/2021 5 £500 £181.97
Mr C said that the loans were never affordable and Quid Market didnt do enough checks to 
ascertain if he could afford them as his applications wouldve been rejected. He told us that 
he was unemployed and didn't meet Quid Markets eligibility requirements but despite this he 
was able to keep borrowing bigger loans each time. He told us that the loans put him further 
in debt and he had to borrow from other loan companies and family in order to repay them. 
When he complained to Quid Market it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said its 
affordability and creditworthiness checks showed that all the loans were comfortably 
affordable for Mr C. It did however offer to remove the loans from Mr Cs credit record as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr C didnt feel this offer went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Quid Market told us about these loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Cs circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Quid Market to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Quid Market had any information which shouldve prompted it to 
start verifying what Mr C had said in support of his loan applications. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr C had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Quid Market shouldve alerted 
it to think he was having money problems. So she didnt recommend upholding Mr Cs 
complaint and suggested that Mr C should contact Quid Market directly if he now wanted to 
take up its goodwill offer. 
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr C mainly said that Quid Market hadnt properly taken into account the 
information it saw on his credit file showing 6 maxed out credit cards, 2 outstanding loans 
and 2 outstanding defaults  and that it couldnt have phoned his employer as it said it did 
because he had never worked there. Mr C said he was partially to blame for the situation 
and felt that both parties should take equal responsibility with him receiving 50% of interest 
and fees back. 
Our adjudicator explained that in order to tell a lender to do something to put things right 
(which would include meeting the complainant halfway as Mr C has suggested) we first have 
to be able to say that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably. As that isnt the case here, we 
cant require Quid Market to provide the redress Mr C would like. 
So as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, Ive reached the same view 
overall as out adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
Quid Market provided Mr C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Quid Market was required to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr C 
before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Theres no set list of checks that are 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough 
 in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Cs complaint. 
In brief summary, Quid Market said it relied on information Mr C provided about his monthly 
income and expenditure as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. It 
told us Mr Cs applications were agreed after it had carried out background checks to verify 
what hed said about his income  this included phoning the place Mr C had said he worked 
as well as relying on income verification checks done by a credit reference agency. 
Quid Market said the information it gathered supported what Mr C had said about the 
amount of income being paid into his bank account. And that its income and expenditure 
review and creditworthiness checks showed that the loans were affordable for Mr C - and in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
I've taken into account everything Mr C has said about this and I accept that its possible that 
incorrect information concerning Mr Cs named employer was provided to Quid Market or wrongly recorded by Quid Market. But that isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint. And although I acknowledge Mr Cs frustration, I should make clear 
that it isnt any part of the role of this service to punish lenders. 
Ill now explain why I dont feel that I have seen enough to be able to say that Quid Market 
should have realised these loans were not sustainably affordable. 
loan 1
It seems that Mr C had declared his monthly income was £1,800. Quid Market accepted this 
was a dependable figure it could rely on after doing its own background checks. Given that 
Mr C had provided this information in support of his application and this figure was confirmed 
by at least one other generally reliable source I think Quid Market was reasonably entitled to 
assume this was a broadly fair income figure and use this in its affordability calculations.
After gathering information from Mr C about his typical monthly spending and doing its own 
credit checks Quid Market allowed for Mr C needing to spend around £1,371 monthly. 
So I think its fair to say that this information suggested that Mr C was well able to afford the 
repayments of £139 he was signing up to pay for this loan. 
As this was his first loan with Quid Market, at this early stage, Mr C didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Quid Market to any underlying money problems. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr C provided or the other information 
Quid Market had recorded, which meant that Quid Market shouldve taken more steps to 
check the information Mr C had declared. From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in 
mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and 
sometimes an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything that Id expect a lender to be 
unduly concerned about at this stage. 
Although I think it was potentially concerning that Mr C had used practically all the available 
credit on six credit cards, and he had two other loans as well as a couple of defaulted 
accounts, Mr C didnt seem to have an excessive amount of credit overall for someone in his 
financial situation. 
There werent any indications of any serious money problems shown in his credit history 
such as bankruptcy or county court judgements. Although the defaults in particular were 
indicators of possible financial difficulty I think its fair to say at least one of them dated back 
two years earlier so I can see why a responsible lender might not have been too worried to 
see this information. And the other default wasnt sufficient to suggest this loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable. 
All in all, it was early in the lending relationship and I think the checks were enough for Quid 
Market to agree to lend. And the information it gathered supported its lending decision as the 
loan looked on these figures to be sustainably affordable. So I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint 
about loan 1. 
loan 2
I can see that Mr C took out the second loan within a few days of repaying loan 1  and this 
time he borrowed a bigger loan. But these things on their own werent enough in my view to 
make Quid Market think that Mr C was becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with 
being over stretched financially.Quid Market asked Mr C to update the information he provided about his finances each time 
he applied for a new loan. Mr Cs circumstances looked to be much the same and the 
monthly repayments for loan 2 still looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr C. 
Mr C repaid loan 1 early so I think its fair to say he hadnt shown Quid Market any signs that 
he was finding it hard to pay for his borrowing. And the figures hed declared, and the 
information Quid Market had collected, seem to support Quid Markets lending decision. 
The credit check information that Quid Market could see was essentially the same as for 
loan 1 and for the same reasons, at this early stage, I dont think it was enough to have 
prompted Quid Market to think that it needed to know more before lending or that Mr C 
couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way.
And I think it was too soon for Quid Market reasonably to be able to identify any particular 
pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr C was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or 
not using the money it lent for its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help. So 
Im not upholding the complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
Ive taken into account that this was Mr Cs third loan application and he hadnt had any 
significant breaks in between loans. He was also arranging to pay this loan back over a 
longer period  this had the effect of reducing the amount of the monthly repayments he 
would have to make and as a result, this loan wouldnt cost him much more on a month to 
month basis than hed had to pay for loan 2.
On the other hand, hed made his repayments on loans 1 and 2 without any signs of 
particular financial difficulty and repaid both those loans ahead of the due date. So I dont 
think Quid Market had any strong reason to think at that stage Mr C was showing signs of 
financial difficulty.
Before lending to Mr C, Quid Market asked Mr C to update the information about his financial 
situation. His financial situation seemed to be more or less unchanged and thats not 
surprising given that the loans were all taken out over a period of just four months or so. It 
was still the case that the figures hed declared and the information Quid Market collected 
appeared to show he had enough surplus cash to afford the loan. 
But Quid Market also needed to be satisfied that the loan was sustainably affordable for 
Mr C and Ive thought carefully about the conclusions Quid Market drew from the information 
it had gathered  and in particular, what it deduced from its credit checks on Mr C. I think 
Mr Cs use of credit looked to be potentially at odds with what Quid Market might reasonably 
have expected to see for someone who appeared to have such a high disposable income  
especially bearing in mind that this was now his third borrowing request.
The credit report Quid Market obtained shows that Mr C still appeared to have six maxed out 
credit cards  these had been at (or sometimes over) their account limits for well over a year 
by this time. 
I think if Mr C had continued to borrow from Quid Market, the lender would have needed to 
try and find out more about the reasons for this in case it wasnt simply a matter of Mr C 
prioritising other spending but possibly an indication that he was struggling to reduce his 
reliance on credit cards. But I think that Quid Market gave Mr C fair opportunity to provide 
relevant information about his spending and it was entitled, at what was still a relatively early 
stage in their relationship, to rely on the information he provided, especially where this 
seemed to be supported by its own checks. And, at this stage, I think the checks it did were sufficient overall for it to make a fair lending decision  and the loan looked affordable on the 
figures it relied on. So Im not upholding loan 3.
Mr C feels that Quid Market didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before 
agreeing to lend to him. But there wasnt any reason for Quid Market to necessarily suspect 
that Mr C had provided incorrect information about his employment status or his overall 
income. On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for Quid Market to lend  especially as 
there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had gathered, to suggest Mr C wouldnt 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. I dont think proportionate checks in these 
circumstances wouldve required Quid Market to probe any more deeply into Mr Cs finances 
or ask Mr C to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what 
he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Quid Market to have asked to see the bank 
statements that Mr C has sent me. And I dont think Quid Market did anything wrong when it 
made its lending decisions based on the information it had at the time  without asking to 
see Mr Cs bank statements. 
Looking at things another way, even if I were to say that Quid Market should have done 
more in-depth checks before lending to Mr C, I agree with our adjudicator that the bank 
statements he has provided dont show enough to make me think that a responsible lender 
would have declined his loan applications had it seen this information.
I say this because the bank statements for the relevant periods running up to each of these 
loans appear to show plenty of cash coming into and out of his bank account. 
It is clear that there is another account with funds being moved between, but his account is 
maintained in credit and there is nothing that to my mind shows he was experiencing serious 
money problems or that his debt or spending was out of control. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs point that many of the transactions simply reflected the 
fact that he was moving the same money multiple times. But I wouldnt reasonably expect a 
lender to carry out the sort of detailed forensic analysis that would be needed to identify the 
money movements that Mr C seems to be suggesting were happening.
This means that even if I took the view that Quid Market should have required Mr C to 
produce these bank statements at the time, they still wouldnt have revealed sufficient 
adverse information to warrant declining his loan applications. 
So I cant fairly say the lending decisions were ultimately unfair.
All this means that, despite what Mr C has told me about his financial situation, I dont think 
there was anything in the information that Quid Market had recorded for Mr C, or anything 
else that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Quid Market think these loans 
werent sustainably affordable for Mr C when he took them out.
I appreciate that this outcome is going to disappoint Mr C but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman