DRN-2770963
The complaint
Miss S complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Motonovo 
Finance Limited (MF) ended.  
What happened
In February 2018 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with MF. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered 
mileage of 48,846 miles.
In July 2020 Miss S voluntary terminated the agreement. The car was inspected, following 
which MF invoiced Miss S for damage charges. 
The charges totalled £480 and included a missing service history fee of £300 and fees for 
damage to all four alloy wheels of £180.
Miss S disputed the charges and provided the service history for the car. MF removed the 
missing service history fee but said the charges for the wheels remained payable.
Miss S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it was reasonable to expect that the had been 
some damage to the wheels at the point of supply because the car was over 7 years old and 
had covered over 48,000 miles at the point of supply. He said the damage charges should 
be refunded.
MF didnt agree. It said the damage was beyond acceptable wear and tear according to the 
relevant guidelines and said that if the damage had been present at the point of supply it 
wouldve been noted on the sales invoice.
MF also said that Miss Ss last direct debit payment (which it had applied towards the 
damage charges) was due anyway because she hadnt requested to voluntary terminate the 
agreement until 29 June 2020 and the direct debit was already in place and was taken on 1 
July 2020. MF also said its agents had contacted Miss S on 9 July 2020 to arrange collection 
of the car, but it wasnt collected until almost 3 weeks later because Miss S had been out of 
the country. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Miss S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds acceptable wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage to the alloy wheels which MF 
says goes beyond acceptable wear and tear and is therefore chargeable.
I agree that the damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the 
guidelines. However, the guidelines dont have the same application when looking at an 
older car, because an older car is far more likely to have been supplied with some wear and 
tear present already. The car supplied to Miss s was over 7 years old. So I think its fair to 
say that it would be expected to have had some damage at the point of supply, and I think 
its more likely than not that some of this damage would have been present on the wheels.
Ive taken into account the point which MF has made about prior damage being noted on the 
sale invoice. But Im not persuaded that a sales invoice would go into this level of detail 
about every item of damage to a second-hand car.
On balance, and in the absence of any evidence to show that the alloy wheels werent 
damaged at the point of supply, Im of the view that given the age of the car its more likely 
than not that the damage was present at the point of supply.
I understand the point which MF makes about Miss Ss final direct debit payment. However, I 
dont agree that her final payment should have been retained in circumstances where she 
voluntary terminated the agreement before the direct debit payment had been due. In any 
event, MF havent applied the payment towards the agreement but has instead applied to 
towards damage charges. Having found that those damage charges should be removed, Im 
of the view that the payment should be returned to Miss S.   
Putting things right
To put things right, MF should refund the payment of £157.16 and waive (or refund as 
appropriate) the balance of £22.84.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.   MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
Refund £157.16
Remove the outstanding balance £22.84 (or refund this if Miss S has already paid it)
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman