DRN-2645791
The complaint
 Miss A is unhappy about the service she received from Lloyds Bank Direct Investment 
Service (Lloyds), operated by Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL), in response to a 
problem that prevented her from using her online account for around eight months. HSDL 
stands as respondent and it mainly says its contractual disclaimer of liability (for technical 
problems in the online service) nullifies the complaint.
What happened
 Miss A says  she opened the investment account in November 2019 and the online service 
within the account was an incentive in doing so; that service did not work from the outset and 
this continued to be the case until it was resolved in July 2020; prior to resolution she spent 
significant amounts of time pursuing Lloyds by telephone to address the problem, without 
success and with hours spent on hold (and, a few times, being cut off); she did the same 
pursuing progress reports but no meaningful progress happened so she complained twice 
during the eight months period; and in the absence of the online service she resorted to 
using the telephone service, which was not her preference, however she experienced 
service difficulties in doing so.
An email from Lloyds, dated 2 April 2020 and in response to Miss As second complaint, 
includes the following:
Firstly, I am sorry that you have been having online visibility issues with your investment 
account; we are aware of some technical issues in this area affecting some customers and 
we are currently investigating this matter with our IT team. I can assure you that every effort 
is being made to resolve these technical issues and we have set up a live list of affected 
customers that you have been added to, that we will monitor going forward, with a view to 
restoring online visibility as soon as practically possible.
In the course of this services investigation HSDL said (in its email of 2 February 2021):
 investigation into [Miss As] issues have proved inconclusive and so we are not able to 
tell whether the issues she experiences with online service availability are to do with some 
aspect of her own personal settings or something else, it is something we continue to 
monitor.
Our investigator queried the above and referred to Lloyds email of 2 April 2020 which, she 
considered, conveyed a different message. In response, HSDLs email of 3 February 2021 
included the following:
Please note that any e-mail sent to [Miss A] confirming the issue affecting her was caused 
by Halifax would be incorrect. As stated previously the investigation performed by the IT 
division proved inconclusive and as such the cause of [Miss As] issue was unknown. 
HSDL has shared call log information, relevant to Miss A, her account and her telephone 
contacts with Lloyds, which confirms the following:
Her first complaint was logged on 22 November 2019.
During a call on 24 January 2020 she asked for progress updates every fortnight. 
Thereafter, calls related to the complaint appear to have happened on 7 February, 21 
February, 6 March (voicemail), 20 March (voicemail), 2 April (her second complaint) 
and 11 June. The logs for these calls show that no progress updates or resolution 
timescales were given to her. In the last call she appears to have highlighted the lack 
of fortnightly updates at the time, contrary to what she was promised.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. In her view letter, she 
recapped on the history of the complaint; she noted that available evidence of telephone 
contacts did not reflect the extent of telephone calls claimed by Miss A, but she considered 
that perhaps some calls were not logged; she also noted HSDLs contractual disclaimer 
argument; she considered that HSDL had presented a conflicting response(s) over the IT 
issue Miss A faced which indicates, based on its April 2020 and February 2021 emails, that 
she was misled; and that, overall, it was not reasonable for her to have been put in the 
position of gaining access to the online service only after eight months from opening the 
account. The investigator proposed that Miss A should be paid £200 for the trouble and 
upset the matter has caused her.
HSDL disagreed with this outcome, asked for an ombudsmans decision and insisted that its 
contractual disclaimer argument negated any grounds to compensate Miss A. It also 
objected to what it considered to be a misrepresentation by the investigator in saying 
HSDLs position was that the information in the e-mail [of 2 April 2020] was incorrect. It said 
the accurate quote of what it said is  any email sent to [Miss A] confirming the issue 
affecting her was caused by Halifax would be incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I 
uphold Miss As complaint and I consider HSDLs argument about its contractual disclaimer 
to be redundant in the context of the complaint.
In said context, and given what Miss A has specifically complained about, reference to a 
contractual disclaimer of responsibility for technical problems in the online service is 
somewhat misguided. She has complained about her overall experience, mainly in terms of 
having to wait for eight months for the problem to be fixed, a lack of progress and of 
progress reports during that period and the experience defeating the purpose for which (and 
incentive with which) she opened the account. This is a service based complaint, not one 
about direct liability for the technical issues in the online service. 
Furthermore, the matter of responsibility to address the problem is also arguably distinct 
from that of direct responsibility for the cause of the problem. The contractual disclaimer, like 
all contractual terms, should be read in the context of commercial efficacy, so it could not 
reasonably be read as a term that conflicted with the intentions of the contracting parties. 
Lloyds/HSDL would have intended to show added value in its accounts by reference to the 
inclusive online service and I accept Miss As position that the online service was an 
incentive in opening the account, so she would have intended to rely on being able to use that service. 
The online service had to be fit for the purpose that was mutually intended by both parties  
otherwise, what would have been the point of having it? If or when it did not work, it would 
reasonably have been the responsibility of the service provider  Lloyds/HSDL  to 
address/resolve it. If HSDL disputes this, I do not consider it can successfully do so, or that it 
can establish it was not responsible for addressing the problem Miss A faced. It was 
responsible because the online service was a key element of the overall account service it 
provided (and Miss A reasonably expected). Lloyds email of 2 April 2020 supports this 
finding. The email acknowledges responsibility for addressing the problem.
The points in Miss As complaint are essentially that Lloyds/HSDL mismanaged the problem, 
that it did so without reasonable transparency on progress and that it did not address the 
problem in a reasonable period of time.
Overall and on balance, I am persuaded that Miss A experienced a service failure in which, 
from the outset, she could not use the online service she expected and relied upon (and was 
entitled to expect and rely upon), in which she appears to have been without progress 
updates on Lloyds treatment of the matter for over two months (between April and June 
2020) and in which resolution of the problems appears to have been delayed during the 
relevant eight months. The eight months over which she had to await resolution was, in 
itself, unreasonable. I do not consider the alternative telephone service to be relevant. It is 
not disputed that the telephone service was available  albeit Miss A says she experienced 
some problems with it  the point is about her experience of the online service that she 
should have been able to use.
I agree with the amount of £200, as compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Miss 
A, and I order HSDL to make this payment to her.
I understand the misrepresentation HSDL has alleged. However, I also consider that it has 
probably misunderstood the investigators approach. Its email of 3 February 2021 said any 
previous confirmation that it caused the online service problem was incorrect; and the 
email of 2 April 2020 does not say Lloyds caused the problem, just that it was aware of the 
problem and was investigating/addressing it. The investigator put the latter to HSDL for 
comment and its response gave her the impression that HSDL disputed it. That response, 
overall and as quoted above, can reasonably be read as disputing the email of 2 April 2020. 
However, I also accept that HSDLs email specifically disputed any previous confirmation 
that it caused the problem  confirmation which the email of 2 April 2020 did not give.
Putting things right
 I order HSDL to pay Miss A £200 for the trouble and upset she has been caused, as set out 
above.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss As complaint and I order Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited to pay her £200 for the trouble and upset she has been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman