DRN-2770433
The complaint
 Mr K complains about a declined claim made under his home insurance policy with 
Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead).
 
What happened
 Mr K was at his friends house when armed robbers broke in with knives. Some of the 
occupants in the house were stabbed and the robbers threatened Mr K to remove his 
jewellery. Mr K (during all the commotion of people shouting and screaming) removed his 
jewellery and hid it. 
Mr K then ran into a room with others and barricaded the door to prevent the robbers from 
entering. Mr K stayed there until the police arrived, when Mr K looked for his jewellery. The 
item was no longer were he hid it and his access to the property was prevented thereafter as 
it was deemed a crime scene. 
Mr K reported the loss to Fairmead, who declined his claim due to the terms and conditions 
of the policy. It said that at the time of the loss Mr K ought to have been either wearing the 
item or carrying the item by hand under his personal supervision or the item shouldve been 
deposited in a bank or locked safe with an adequate insurance rating, which it wasnt.
Mr K was unhappy about this outcome and so referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. She recommended that 
Fairmead honour the claim as it had been unreasonable, given the specific circumstances at 
the time the jewellery was lost. She felt that Mr K had mitigated his loss by hiding the item 
and as he was wearing the it prior to the loss it should be treated as carried by hand under 
your personal supervision.
Mr K accepted our investigators view. 
Fairmead didnt accept our investigators view. It said Mr K had given false information to our 
investigator which formed the basis of her view. In that Mr K wasnt wearing the jewellery, 
there was no forcible removal and he had hidden the item which wasnt there when he 
returned. It relied on a call recording of the call Mr K made to report the theft. So, it asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will be upholding Mr Ks complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents as well as the claim call and information provided to 
me by both sides. The main issue of the complaint I think relates to whether Fairmead was 
unreasonable in relying on the terms and conditions of the policy and declining Mr Ks claim 
based on the exclusion clause. 
Fairmead said that Mr K was neither wearing the item of jewellery, nor was the item forcibly 
removed and this false information was given to our investigator which formed the basis of 
her view. It relied upon the following exclusion clause, which said: Personal possessions 
and valuables excludes theft and loss of individual items of jewellery valued over £7,500 
unless the jewellery is either:
a) Being worn by you
b) Carried by hand under your personal supervision
c) Deposited in a bank or locked safe with an adequate cash rating.
I have carefully considered what this means, in line with the industry rules that provide that 
all insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably or unfairly, with regard to the terms and conditions of the policy.
I am satisfied that under this term of the policy, part A and C dont apply. Both parties accept 
that at some time during the incident Mr K wasnt wearing the jewellery nor had it been 
deposited in a bank or a safe. So, the issue here is what the term of carried by hand under 
your personal possession means and whether Fairmead were reasonable in declining the 
claim under this term. 
I think that Fairmead has applied the term of the policy, in its strict meaning. In that it said 
that at the time of the incident, Mr K wasnt wearing the jewellery. But Mr K provided a 
detailed account to Fairmead in which he said that once the armed robbers broke into the 
house and were threatening the occupants with knives, he hid the watch. 
This account he provided to the police and he was given a crime reference number which he 
gave to Fairmead. Having listened to the call made by Mr K reporting the loss, I am satisfied 
that the account he provided to both the police and Fairmead, was consistent.
From Mr Ks account, at the point when the robbery started (which is when the armed 
robbers entered the house) Mr K had in his possession and control the jewellery, as he was 
wearing it. And I think the fact that Mr K hid the item, showed that in the circumstances of the 
incident which I think would have been a chaotic and stressful situation, Mr K took the 
sensible action of trying to mitigate any loss by hiding the jewellery. So, I dont think its fair 
or reasonable for Fairmead to penalise Mr K for trying to mitigate the loss, by declining the 
claim. 
 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Fairmead should pay Mr Ks claim minus any policy excess. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Mr Ks claim minus any policy excess.
Fairmead Insurance Limited should also pay interest on the amount above, at a rate of 8% 
simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Fairmead Insurance Limited to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred above, Fairmead Insurance Limited must give Mr K a certificate 
showing how much tax they deduct if he asks them for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman