DRN-3210379
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that SLL Capital Limited handled the collection of an 
outstanding debt.
Mr C wants SLL to write off the remaining balance on the account.
What happened
SLL took over ownership of a loan debt that it says Mr C owed to a business that I will call 
S. Mr C complained to S that it had mis-sold him some loans and his complaint was upheld 
by the administrator of S. 
Mr C says that SLL gave him conflicting and confusing information about the outstanding 
balance on his account. Mr C said that an offer for him to pay 50% of the debt was 
withdrawn.
Mr C doesnt think that he should owe SLL any money and says that its trying to profit from 
vulnerable people. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. He didnt think that SLL 
had acted unreasonably. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He made some additional points 
which the investigator addressed in two further views. 
In summary, Mr C thought that as SLL had previously offered to discount the original 
balance by 50% and then the reduced balance of £400 by 50%, it should do the same for the 
further reduced balance. 
Mr C also said that SLL told him that S had made adjustments to the account of almost £530 
as part of the redress scheme over multiple loans and then credited this to the account that 
SLL had bought, reducing the balance due to £135.
The investigator said that his opinion remained unchanged, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
My understanding is that when SLL took over ownership of the loan account from S, the 
outstanding balance was £665 which was made up of a principal loan of £400 and interest 
and charges. At some point, Mr C made an irresponsible lending complaint which was 
upheld by the administrator for S, but which didnt affect the loan that SLL had bought.
After S reviewed its lending policies, SLL agreed with the Financial Conduct Authority to 
write off the interest and charges on the account it had bought, leaving Mr C to pay the 
principal balance.  
SLL then mistakenly further reduced the principal balance by the written off interest and 
charges, taking the outstanding balance down to around £135. Its this amount that SLL asks 
Mr C to pay. 
Although SLL had made offers to write off part of the debt if Mr C paid half, I cant see that 
he accepted these. The best offer SLL made previously was to reduce the principal balance 
by 50% if Mr C paid the other £200. I dont find that it follows that SLL should be required to 
make the same 50% discount offer on the further reduced balance of £135. The level of offer 
that a business decides to make is a commercial judgment that I dont consider this service 
can interfere in.
I appreciate that someone from SLL told Mr C that S, rather than SLL had reduced the debt. 
But its apologised for giving Mr C the wrong information. As far as I can see, its not the 
case that S credited Mr Cs loan account with around £529. Instead, this is the amount by 
which SLL has reduced the balance after first removing the interest and then mistakenly 
applying the same reduction again. The investigator has already explained to Mr C how the 
current balance has been calculated by SLL. I hope this gives him some clarity. 
Given the significant reduction that SLL has agreed to honour, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable just to give an apology for the misinformation. I dont require SLL to do more 
than this.
At the end of the day, Mr C had the benefit of the money lent so I cant reasonably find that 
SLL is wrong to ask him to repay the reduced principal balance. Overall, I dont consider SLL 
has treated Mr C unfairly, so I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman