The complaint
Mr A complains about what happened when he tried to report his card as stolen in a branch 
of Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr A told us his card was stolen. He went into a branch to report this, but the branch 
wouldnt block his card for him because he didnt have any ID. Mr A thought the branch staff 
could have asked him security questions instead. 
Mr A rang Barclays soon after this, then went into a different branch. His card was blocked. 
Barclays has paid Mr A £25 because it said that it couldve cancelled his card for him when 
he first visited a branch, and shouldve done so as a precaution. But Mr A says he lost over 
£200 that he had transferred from his savings account to his current account, so he doesnt 
think that Barclays has done enough to make up for what went wrong. 
Barclays said it could see that Mr A had transferred a little less than £300 from his savings 
account to his current account on 18 June, a little after midnight. Hed then taken the money 
out at a cashpoint, less than an hour later. 
Barclays said Mr A had later gone into a branch to report his card as stolen. Hed also rung 
on 23 June, to complain about the service at the branch. His card was blocked, and 
cancelled when he went into a different branch. 
Barclays thought it had done enough by paying Mr A £25 for the inconvenience. It didnt 
think it was responsible for a loss of over £200. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr A had been 
inconvenienced by not being able to cancel his card in the branch, but he didnt think that it 
was Barclays fault if money had been stolen from Mr A. So he thought that what Barclays 
had done was enough to make up for what had gone wrong.
Mr A didnt agree. He wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
When our investigator reached his view on this case, he said that Mr A had been into 
a branch, and then later contacted the police, found that the card had been stolen and 
DRN-1947768around £200 had been taken from it. But that doesn't fit with what Mr A told Barclays, 
so Im not sure thats quite the right order of events. 
Barclays cant tell us exactly when Mr C went into a branch to try to block his card. So 
Ive looked closely at the records and events. And this is what I think happened. 
Mr A transferred money from his savings account using telephone banking just 
after midnight on 18 June. He then withdrew money from his current account 
only a few minutes later, at around quarter to one. 
Barclays has told us Mr A's card was used in a branch on 19 June. I think its 
likely that Mr A still had his card then. 
Mr A then told us he contacted the police himself when he couldnt find his card. 
I think its likely that Mr A acted promptly when that happened. He said after he'd 
spoken to the police, he went to Barclays, and wasnt able to report his card as 
stolen. 
Barclays said he complained about his treatment at this branch in a phone call 
on 23 June, and he went into another branch the very next day, on 24 June.
We know that Mr A didnt successfully report his card as stolen to Barclays until some 
days after the money transferred from his savings was taken out. So I dont think that 
Mr A contacted the police, or went into a branch to cancel his card, until some days 
after the money transferred from his savings had been taken out.
And because of that, I dont think any problems Mr A has with missing money were 
related to the branchs refusal to cancel his card. I dont think Barclays has to pay Mr A 
£200.
I do think though that refusing to cancel Mr As card when he was worried about the 
security of his account would naturally cause him a considerable amount of stress. 
And Barclays has accepted that it could, and should, have cancelled Mr As card when 
he first asked it to. 
So I think that the £25 Barclays has already paid in this case isnt quite enough to 
make up for what went wrong here. I think Barclays should now pay Mr A a further 
£75.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays wrote to agree with my decision. Mr A didn't reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr A £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman