DRN-3656631
The complaint
Mrs C complaints that Bank of Scotland plc wont fully refund the money she was tricked into 
sending to a fraudster.
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in June 2021, Mrs C received a text message 
which appeared to come from the postal service, asking Mrs C to make a payment for a 
delivery. As Mrs Cs birthday was approaching, this didnt strike her as unusual and she 
followed the link and entered card details of an account held with another banking provider 
to make a payment.
A few days later, Mrs C received a call from someone purporting to work for the banking 
group that this other banking provider is associated with. The caller suggested that there 
were concerns about fraudulent activity on Mrs Cs account and asked if she had received 
any messages from a list of companies, including the postal service, which Mrs C confirmed 
she had.
The caller advised Mrs C they were concerned her Bank of Scotland account may also be 
compromised as she makes regular transfers between the two, so advised they would 
contact Bank of Scotland who would be in touch. Mrs C explains she checked the telephone 
number she had been called from online, which confirmed as matching with her banking 
provider. This assured her it was a genuine call. Unfortunately, unknown to Mrs C at the 
time, she was in fact speaking to a fraudster who had spoofed her banks telephone 
number.
A second fraudster then called Mrs C claiming to work for Bank of Scotland. They advised 
they believed that someone had been to Mrs Cs local branch earlier that day, posing as her, 
which they further confirmed by describing an individual not matching Mrs Cs own 
description. The fraudster told Mrs C they believed there was an in-house fraud attempt 
taking place that they would need Mrs Cs help to uncover.
Mrs C was provided with account details that she was told to make a payment to, claiming 
this would allow the fraud team to trace the payment as evidence. Mrs C followed the 
fraudsters instructions and made a payment of £24,500 to a new payee. When making the 
online payment, Mrs C received confirmation from Bank of Scotland that the account name 
and details shed provided matched. Mrs C was also asked the nature of the payment and 
was told by the fraudster to select friends and family. On selecting this option, Mrs C was 
presented with the following warning:
Help us keep you safe
[Mrs Cs first name], how well do you know this person?
Well never call to tell you to move your money to another account
Fraudsters can even copy our telephone number
Dont believe them. Hang up the phone.
Mrs C confirmed she wanted to proceed, and the payment was then stopped for further 
checks, with Mrs C being instructed to call Bank of Scotland. The fraudster advised Mrs C to 
tell the advisor that the payment was for a builder, to avoid it being detected by the in-house 
fraudsters.
Mrs C called Bank of Scotland as required and spoke to a member of staff about the 
payment. During the call, the advisor asked whether Mrs C had paid the builder before and 
whether the work had been completed. Ive also included three separate relevant excerpts 
from the call below of what Mrs C was told by Bank of Scotland:
So, the reason we did stop the payment is we felt it had a higher than normal risk of being 
fraud. Remember that once this payment has left your account, the money is gone, and we 
are unlikely to recover it. And fraudsters are contacting our customers with very convincing 
stories and they can often be quite believable, and they are then telling the customers not to 
discuss the call with the bank, however, that makes it more difficult for us to protect you from 
fraud if this happens So have you been contacted by anyone recently asking you to make 
a payment and then to lie about it when youre questioned?
Mrs C confirmed that she hadnt.
Okay, so no-ones contacted you recently asking you to move money from your account, 
saying like are your accounts not safe, we need to open a new account for you?
Again Mrs C confirmed no.
Right, okay. So I just want to confirm, youve not been contacted, told to lie to us, or been 
asked to move this money from your account for any reason. I need to make it clear, its 
unlikely we will be able to get this payment back once it has left your account, so can you 
confirm that you are sure this is a genuine payment, made off your own instructions and not 
because someone else has convinced you this is what you need to do?
Mrs C confirmed this was a genuine payment and it was then released.
The fraudster then instructed Mrs C to make two further payments, one in branch and one by 
telephone banking. Bank of Scotland accepts it couldve done more to stop these payments 
from being processed and has therefore refunded them in full, so I wont go into detail about 
these further payments.
After making all three payments, Mrs C contacted the police to make them aware of the 
fraud concerns that had been raised on her account. The police advised Mrs C they thought 
shed been the victim of a scam and Mrs C then contacted Bank of Scotland to raise a fraud 
claim. Bank of Scotland contacted the beneficiary account Mrs C sent her funds to, but 
unfortunately were only able to recover £3.99.
Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland says 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Bank of Scotland considers Mrs C didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was 
making a legitimate payment transfer. It said Mrs C shouldve completed more checks to 
confirm the legitimacy of who she was paying. Bank of Scotland also considers it provided 
an effective warning specific to the scam Mrs C fell victim to during the payment journey. As 
mentioned, Bank of Scotland did acknowledge it couldve done more to stop the second and third scam payments Mrs C made, so refunded those in full. It also awarded £60 in 
compensation to apologise for the service Mrs C received during the investigation of the 
claim.
I am also mindful that when Mrs C made these payments, Bank of Scotland should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Mrs C feels she should be refunded in full and so has referred her complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with Bank of 
Scotland providing a full refund. As Bank of Scotland disagreed with the investigators view, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Bank of Scotland should have refunded the 
money Mrs C lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
While Bank of Scotland intervened before processing Mrs Cs first payment, I dont 
think its questioning to protect her from financial harm went far enough. Had further 
questions been asked, and these types of scams been discussed in further detail, I 
am satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably refund the 
money Mrs C lost.
The money was taken from Mrs Cs current account. It is not clear how Mrs C would 
have used the money if Bank of Scotland had refunded it when it should have done, 
so Bank of Scotland should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded 
at 8% simple per year from the date the payment was made to the fraudsters to the 
date of reimbursement.
I have carefully considered Bank of Scotlands representations about whether Mrs C had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine and whether the warning it 
provided was effective. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I 
am not persuaded that Mrs C failed to take the requisite level of care required for Bank of 
Scotland to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met. One of the requirements under the CRM Code for a warning to be effective is that it is 
impactful. In this case, the first line of the warning was in bold, making the rest of the 
warning less impactful than this header. As the header is not relevant in the circumstances 
of this scam, I consider this takes away from the overall impact of the warning. Therefore I 
dont consider the warning to be effective under the requirements of the CRM Code. Im also satisfied that Bank of Scotland has not shown that Mrs C lacked a reasonable basis 
of belief when making this transfer because:
When first receiving a call purportedly from her other banking provider, Mrs C 
checked the telephone number she was being called from and saw it matched with 
HSBCs, reassuring her that the call was genuine. The caller also referenced the 
postal service message Mrs C had received (which she didnt realise at the time was 
part of the scam) and was aware that Mrs C had a Bank of Scotland account, all 
adding layers of apparent legitimacy to the call.
I appreciate that the warning Mrs C received online referred to fraudsters being able 
to copy the banks phone number, which I think was a key element of Mrs Cs basis 
for believing these calls were legitimate. Mrs C has acknowledged there probably 
was some small print somewhere providing a warning, but has explained she 
doesnt recall seeing it. I think this is reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
this complaint. Mrs C was being talked through the payment process by someone 
she believed worked for her bank  the fraudster had told her what payment option to 
select and gave her reasons for doing this (to remain undetected by the in-house 
fraudster). I therefore think its understandable that Mrs C wouldnt pay much 
attention to a warning, when shes fully aware the payment reason shes selected 
isnt relevant to whats happening to her.
Ive also considered the call Mrs C had with the genuine Bank of Scotland advisor 
and whether Mrs C ought to have been aware from this call that she was falling 
victim to a scam. Again I think its important to consider this call in the context of the 
particular scam  Mrs C had been told members of the bank were acting fraudulently 
and had to keep the real payment purpose undetected from them. She also thought 
that by keeping the true nature of the payments secret, she was assisting the bank. 
I appreciate theres a fine line for Bank of Scotland to draw between asking 
appropriate questions and following its customers instructions, but Ive also 
considered that its widely known within banking services that fraudsters will tell 
consumers to lie to their bank, and that it often will take several lines of questioning 
for the truth to be revealed. In this case, I think had Bank of Scotland brought to life 
the ability for fraudsters to spoof telephone numbers, or further questioned Mrs C on 
the apparent building work shed had done (such as why no payments at all had 
been taken until the work was fully completed), I think Mrs Cs story wouldve begun 
to unravel and Bank of Scotland would have identified she was falling victim to a 
scam.
So, in summary, while I appreciate this case is finely balanced, Im not persuaded that Bank 
of Scotland has shown that Mrs C ignored an effective warning, or lacked a reasonable basis 
of belief when making the payment in question. Bank of Scotland should therefore refund the 
funds Mrs C lost to the fraudster in full.
Ive also considered the compensation payment Mrs C was awarded for the service issues 
during the investigation of her complaint. Based on everything Ive seen I think the £60 Mrs 
C was awarded is fair to acknowledge the failings Mrs C experienced and Im not asking 
Bank of Scotland to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. I required Bank of Scotland plc to:Refund the outstanding money she lost to the scam, totalling £24,496.01.
Pay 8% simple interest on Mrs Cs refund, from the date the payment was made to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman