DRN-4428255
The complaint
Miss H complains about Card Protection Plan Ltd (CPP) and their refusal to reissue a 
cheque originally sent to her in 2014 as part of a redress scheme.
What happened
In 2014, Miss H made a claim on a redress scheme set up to compensate customers who 
had been mis-sold a Card Protection Product. As part of this scheme, CPP were the 
business who calculated and issued the compensation for the claim. Miss Hs claim was 
accepted, and a cheque issued in September 2014.
But Miss H says, due to her personal circumstances at the time, she was unable to cash the 
cheque when she received it. And then, it was misplaced, so she forgot about it altogether. 
But Miss H discovered this cheque in old paperwork in 2023 and attempted to cash it. But 
she was unable to do so as the cheque itself had expired. So, she wanted CPP to reissue 
the cheque.
But CPP refused, explaining the terms of the redress scheme, agreed by the high court, 
stipulated any cheque not cashed within six months couldnt be reissued. So, they didnt 
think there was anything more they could do. Miss H complained about this response, as 
she felt she was entitled to the cheque amount. CPP responded to the complaint and didnt 
uphold it, again referring to the redress scheme terms and conditions. Miss H remained 
unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained that, where a 
redress scheme is in place, were only able to consider whether a business, in this case 
CPP, has complied with what is set out within it. And they were satisfied CPP had when 
refusing to issue a replacement cheque. So, they didnt think CPP needed to do anything 
more. Miss H remained unhappy and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss H. I dont doubt the 
circumstances Miss H faced around the time the cheque was originally issued wouldve been 
challenging and upsetting. And I recognise why these circumstances wouldve impacted her 
capacity to cash the cheque, which she has since attempted to do. And as Miss H was 
entitled to the cheque amount, and she still hasnt had access to these funds, I can 
understand why Miss H would return to CPP as the cheque issuer and ask for another one 
to be raised. And when they refused, I can appreciate the frustration she wouldve felt.
But in a situation such as this one, where a redress scheme has been put in place with an 
agreement from the high court, Im unable to discuss the fairness of the scheme itself. 
Instead, all I can consider is CPPs actions, to ensure they fell in line with the terms and 
conditions set by the scheme. And on this occasion, I think CPPs actions did fall within 
these. And Ill explain why.
Ive read through the terms and conditions of the redress scheme at length. And these 
explain under the section Funding of Redress that Any cheque not encashed within six 
months shall be cancelled and the Scheme Claim to which it relates shall be deemed to 
have expired and such Scheme Creditor shall not receive any Redress and shall have no 
right of recourse to the Dispute Resolution Procedure.
Ive seen Miss Hs cheque was issued, and received, around September 2014. But Miss H 
didnt attempt to cash the cheque until around nine years later. So, the cheque wasnt 
cashed within six months. And I think the terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that 
because of this, Miss H then had no right of recourse through the scheme.
While I appreciate why Miss H feels her own personal situation at the time the cheque was 
issued makes this condition unfair, as Ive already explained above my role isnt to comment 
on the fairness of the scheme, only CPPs actions when handling Miss Hs claim within it. 
And I think their decision to refuse a reissuance of the cheque falls within the scheme terms 
and conditions and because of this, I dont think I can say they should do something more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss H was hoping for. But its pleasing to see Miss H is 
now in dialogue with the bank who mis-sold the Card Protection Product in the first place, to 
see if they can assist. I think this is likely to be Miss Hs most likely chance of success in 
receiving the payment she is chasing.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Card Protection 
Plan Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman