DRN-3952230
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money she lost 
when she fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs T was searching for a cryptocurrency investment and came across a 
company Ill refer to as N. She thought their website seemed professional, so got in touch  
and ultimately decided to invest. 
Mrs T sent N £9,000 in April 2021, followed by a further £15,000 between mid-June and 
early July 2021 (so £24,000 in total). She says N kept asking for more money without giving 
her anything back, which made her realise they were a scam. 
Mrs T complained to Barclays that it hadnt done enough to protect her when she made the 
payments. It reimbursed half of her loss, plus interest and £100 compensation. But Mrs T is 
seeking a full refund.
Our investigator didnt recommend further compensation. If Barclays hadnt already refunded 
50%, he said he would have awarded less  as he didnt think Barclays was immediately on 
notice of the fraud risk. And he agreed with a 50% deduction for contributory negligence.
Mrs T has appealed so the case has been passed to me to decide. She says the loss of the 
remaining funds is affecting her health, so wants to recover the full amount from Barclays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
As mentioned, Barclays has already agreed to treat this as a shared blame scenario. It says 
it accepts it was at fault  but thinks Mrs T was too. On this basis, it has already refunded 
half her loss. All that remains for me to consider is whether that deduction is fair - or whether 
Barclays should accept all, or more, liability for Mrs Ts loss. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the deduction is fair because:
A regulatory warning was issued about N which appears to have come up 
prominently when searching for N online at the time. If Mrs T had done some basic 
research into N, as I would reasonably expect before investing significantly with a 
company, she would likely have come across this warning  so would have been on 
notice they were probably operating illicitly.
Mrs T called Barclays about the investment in May 2021. She was concerned N were 
asking for records such as bank statements to authorise her withdrawal request. 
During the call, she acknowledged she had seen reviews branding N a scam, and 
warning not to trust them, prior to investing. That shows she was aware of some 
warning signs the company might be a scam when she made these payments.
During the call, Barclays told Mrs T it had concerns N could be a scam. It offered to 
raise a recall request for the funds. Or it said she could contact Citizens Advice or 
Trading Standards for more information about the company before deciding what to 
do. Mrs T said she would get advice  but it doesnt appear she did. She went on to 
send a further £15,000 to N despite being warned by Barclays about its concerns and 
despite professing her own doubts about their legitimacy. 
Im sorry to hear the difficulty Mrs T is experiencing due to the outstanding loss. That in itself 
doesnt mean it would be fair to expect Barclays to accept full liability for what has 
happened. Based on the concerns Mrs T had and the warning signs she overlooked, I dont 
think it would be fair to expect Barclays to accept more than 50% liability.
I also agree with the investigator that Barclays has likely compensated Mrs T beyond what 
we would expect. It has taken a similar approach to the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model code. But the code doesnt actually apply here as it 
doesnt apply to international payments  which these were. So, as Mrs T authorised the 
payments, in line with the relevant regulations (the Payment Services Regulations 2017), 
she is presumed liable in the first instance. 
We do expect banks to have measures in place to monitor for, and respond to, indications its 
customers might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. If we found Barclays had failed to 
identify and appropriately respond to a fraud risk, and that doing so would have prevented 
Mrs Ts loss, we might consider it reasonable to hold it liable. But we would also consider 
whether Mrs T should share liability.
Here, its unclear Barclays ought to have been on notice Mrs T was at risk initially. While I 
note there was an earlier payment which Mrs T has reported as part of the scam which 
appears to have bounced back, it doesnt look like Barclays blocked this. Nor do I think any 
link between that payment, and the later scam payments, would have been apparent. The 
bounced payment went to a different, legitimate recipient. And there was a gap between this 
and the first successful scam payment. 
There is probably a better case for thinking Barclays ought to have been concerned about 
the second successful scam payment. It was the second payment to the same new recipient 
that day, being sent internationally (which wasnt in keeping with Mrs Ts normal account 
activity) and it caused Mrs T to go overdrawn.
If Barclays had responded by questioning Mrs T about the payment, I think she would have 
been upfront about what she was doing. I think there were enough warnings signs about N 
that Barclays ought to have realised they were likely a scam. Explaining this to Mrs T may 
well have prevented her from proceeding.  But, as explained, I also her negligence 
contributed to her loss such that it would be fair to expect her to share liability. 
Its also unlikely Barclays would have been able to recover the first scam payment, even if it 
had acted sooner  as when it tried, the recipient bank didnt respond.  So, in refunding half of Mrs Ts full loss, with interest to compensate her for the loss of use of 
the funds, Barclays has likely paid more than we would have awarded (or at least no less). It 
also paid her £100 compensation, which Im satisfied is a fair reflection of any unnecessary 
upset caused by any failings in how Barclays considered her fraud claim. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs Ts disappointment, Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
direct Barclays to do anything more to put things right.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman