DRN-4147069
The complaint
Mr C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his claim when 
his car was stolen. 
Mr C is represented on this complaint but, for ease of reading Ive referred to Mr C 
throughout. 
What happened
Mr C was on his way to meet some friends. He parked his car in a car park and locked it. As 
he was walking to meet his friends, he said masked men approached him and demanded he 
hand over the keys to his car. As Mr C was concerned for his safety, he said he handed over 
the keys and the thieves stole his car. Mr C then continued to see his friends and returned 
home later that night in the early hours of the morning. 
The next morning, Mr C went with his parents to buy some pet food and discovered his car 
abandoned. As the car had been damaged Mr Cs mother arranged for the car to be 
recovered to a garage for the damage to be assessed. Mr C said that due to being 
traumatised from the accident he hadnt been able to talk about it. Almost five weeks later Mr 
Cs mother managed to get Mr C to talk about what happened and reported the theft to 
Advantage to claim for the damage to the car.  
Advantage reviewed the claim and asked if Mr C had reported it to the Police. As it hadnt 
been reported at the time Mr C then reported it to the Police around two months after the 
theft. After investigating the details of the theft Advantage turned down the claim. It said Mr 
C hadnt reported the theft to them or the Police within seven days and that this had 
prejudiced the claim as the theft couldnt be investigated the same as it could have if 
reported at the time. Advantage also said there were inconsistencies in Mr Cs testimony 
about what happened. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and complained. He explained that his parents had incurred 
thousands of pounds of storage costs from the garage as Advantage had taken too long to 
decline the claim and incorrectly told the garage there wasnt a claim. He also didnt think it 
was fair the claim was declined as it had now been reported to the Police. Mr C said 
because of Advantage declining the claim his car had to be scrapped and the finance on the 
car had been paid by his parents. 
Advantage reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, as it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong when declining the claim. Unhappy with Advantages response, Mr C referred his 
complaint here. He said hed been traumatised by the theft and unable to talk about it for 
weeks afterwards. He therefore didnt think Advantage had acted fairly in declining the claim 
and said it had also taken too long to do so. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found 
that Advantage had applied the term in a fair and reasonable way as the Police hadnt been 
able to investigate the theft as well as it could due to it being reported almost two months 
after the theft. Mr C didnt agree for similar reasons as hed raised previously and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
The complaint has therefore come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy for theft claims say: Youre not covered for any 
claim of theft unless: 
Youve reported the theft to the nearest Police authority within seven calendar days 
of discovery
.
The terms also say for claims for theft, loss or personal damage: Please call us within seven 
days of the incident. Its better to speak to us as soon as you can, while the details of the 
incident are fresh in your mind.
Its not in dispute that Mr C didnt report the theft to Advantage until almost five weeks after 
the incident. Its also not disputed that Mr C then didnt report the theft to the Police until 
almost two months later. Mr C said the reason for this was that Mr C was traumatised from 
the theft and it had affected his mental health to the point he was unable to talk about the 
incident. While I do empathise with Mr Cs circumstances, Ive also looked at whether the 
delay in reporting the theft has prejudiced Advantages position. 
Advantage has said that if the theft had been reported to the Police it would have enabled 
them to try and locate the thieves and also help to verify the circumstances around the theft. 
And while I do understand this would be a traumatic event for Mr C and have considered the 
impact its had on him, Im satisfied by not reporting the theft sooner it has prejudiced 
Advantages position for the reasons its given. And while I understand Mr Cs reasons for 
not reporting it sooner, it doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable for Advantage to pay 
this claim. Im therefore not going to interfere with its decision to decline the claim. 
Ive also considered Mr Cs points about Advantage taking too long to assess the claim and 
because of this hes incurred storage costs with the garage. When an insurer assesses a 
claim, it has a responsibility do so promptly. How long this is will depend on the 
circumstances of the claim and what information it needs to gather and review. Ive looked at 
Mr Cs claim with Advantage and Im not persuaded its taken longer than usual. I appreciate 
Mr Cs unhappy with this as it meant storage costs were incurred. However, as the storage 
costs are from the garage Mr C chose and Im satisfied Advantage has acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim, Im not going to direct Advantage to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman