DRN-4447465
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way Vitality Health Limited handled a claim made under her
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has an obligation to handle
insurance claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I dont think Vitality has acted fairly and reasonably by not agreeing to cover the cost of Mrs
Cs ultrasound scan which took place in October 2022 (the ultrasound) in the specific and
individual circumstances of this case.
Under the exclusions section of the terms and condition of the policy, it says Vitality will not
pay for the following treatments:
Diagnostic tests that have been arranged by anyone other than your consultant,
except minor diagnostic tests ordered by a Vitality GP or a private GP in our network
Im satisfied an ultrasound is a diagnostic test as defined by the policy.
The request for the ultrasound was from Mrs Cs own GP because Mrs C had been having
pelvic pain, abdominal bloating and loose stools. Recent blood tests also revealed raised
CA125-42 levels.
So, under the terms and conditions of the policy, the ultrasound scan isnt covered as it
hadnt been arranged by one of the listed medical professionals.
However, I dont think its reasonable for Vitality to rely on this exclusion in the
circumstances of this case.
Mrs C called Vitality to authorise the ultrasound. After providing Vitalitys representative with
some details about why shed been advised to have an ultrasound (including that this had
been requested by her GP), the representative said: Ill try and get this authorised now for
youwont be long. Mrs C then explains which hospital she was planning to go to for the
ultrasound and the representative replies: thats one of ours thats fine.
The representative then asks Mrs C to send the GP referral letter (which she is yet to collect)
to Vitality. She agrees to do this and asks for her authorisation number. The representative
then proceeds to read out a number and asks Mrs C to include that number on the email
when she sends on the GP referral letter.
The representative then says hell keep an eye out for the referral letter and would call Mrs C
the next day.
Mrs C did send the GP referral to Vitality the next day. And Ive seen evidence that Vitalitys
representative tried to call Mrs C three times that day (either side of the time she sent the
GP referral to Vitality) but without success. Vitalitys call notes reflect that the calls went
through to voicemail but theres nothing to reflect that a message was left for Mrs C to
contact Vitality or that this was followed up by email  even though the representative
checked Mrs Cs email address towards the end of the call.
Vitality says that the number Mrs C was provided with during the call was a claims number,
not an authorisation number. However, Im satisfied that Mrs C wouldnt have reasonably
known that. The number was provided immediately after she asked for the authorisation
number.
So, I think it was reasonable for her to believe that the ultrasound had been authorised
during the call. And although she was asked to send in the GP referral letter, having listened
to the call, Im satisfied that she wasnt told that the ultrasound was still subject to approval
or unlikely to be covered as the referral had been made directly by her GP.
In the circumstances, and relying on what was said during the call, I can understand why
Mrs C proceeded to book and go ahead with the ultrasound based on the information given
by Vitalitys representative and believing it had been authorised. I think that was a
reasonable belief for her to have.
The ultrasound went ahead around a week after the call and Im satisfied Mrs C didnt
receive anything substantive back from Vitality before the ultrasound took place to say, for
example, that it wasnt covered because the request had come directly from her GP.
Mrs C was only told that Vitality wouldnt cover the ultrasound several days after it had taken
place.
Vitality has said that its for Mrs C to familiarise herself with the terms and conditions of the
policy. But in the circumstances of this case, she had phoned Vitality to authorise the
ultrasound going ahead. The representative was made aware that the referral had been
made by her GP. And instead of telling Mrs C that it was unlikely the ultrasound would be
covered or that the request would need to be considered further, the representative provided
Mrs C with a number immediately after she asked for her authorisation number.
Im satisfied that it wouldve been upsetting and confusing for Mrs C to find out after the
ultrasound had taken place that Vitality was not covering the cost. Particularly after being
provided with, what she reasonably believed, was an authorisation number. She then had
the continued distress of thinking that she would be responsible for the cost of the
ultrasound.
Putting things right
Mrs C says she hasnt yet received an invoice for the ultrasound. So, she hasnt lost out
financially. If she does receive an invoice for the ultrasound, she should promptly forward
this to Vitality and I direct that it should make payment to the medical facility within 21 days
of receipt of the invoice from Mrs C.
Vitality also needs to pay Mrs C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience itscaused Mrs C.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Health Limited to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman