DRN-4354455
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE sent him a threatening email during the 
process of claiming on his travel insurance. He also thinks that the excess he paid should be 
taken into account when considering his compensation offer.
What happened
Mr P took out travel insurance to cover a trip he was planning to make with his wife in 
August 2022. His wife bought a separate policy from a different provider. The trip had to be 
cancelled due to his wifes ill health and so Mr P made a claim on his policy. The claim was 
settled in January 2023, for the full amount less £100 excess.
Mr Ps dissatisfaction with the claim handling process  specifically delays and poor 
customer service  has been the subject of a previous complaint considered by this service. 
Great Lakes sent its final response letter on that subject on 12 January 2023. It accepted 
that the service Mr P received was below that which he had the right to expect and offered 
him £200 compensation. This service then concluded that was a fair and reasonable amount 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P then highlighted an email he had received on 18 November 2022, asking him for 
medical evidence, which he believed to be threatening. He was also unhappy that the 
excess he had paid on the claim effectively reduced the compensation amount and therefore 
wanted Great Lakes to take that into account and consider increasing the compensation 
offer by £100.
This service told Mr P that he would need to make a new complaint to Great Lakes in the 
first instance. He did so, and Great Lakes sent another final response letter on 21 February 
2023. That letter addressed the compensation offer, saying that it would not increase it. But 
it failed to mention Mr Ps point about being sent a threatening email.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and was satisfied that Great Lakes had acted fairly. 
She didnt think that the email was threatening and although this email wasnt specifically 
referenced in Great Lakes final response letter of February 2023, she was satisfied the 
subject matter of his concerns  the poor service hed received  was considered by Great 
Lakes as part of its compensation award of £200.
Mr P disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 18 November 2022, Great Lakes sent Mr P a medical certificate to be completed by his 
GP. The covering email states: Please be advised that completion of this document is 
mandatory to the processing of your claim, and without this we will be unable to consider 
your claim further. We also reserve the right to request further evidence of medical history, 
should the completed medical certificate require further clarity.
As our investigator has pointed out, this is standard wording that would be used in any 
request for medical information. And, of course, there would be nothing unusual in an insurer 
asking for medical evidence in support of a claim. However, as already mentioned, it was not 
Mr P who had been ill. And he had already provided his wifes medical evidence. As such, 
Mr P says he found the email to be totally unacceptable, intimidating and cruel. He thinks 
this service already being involved is the reason that the claim was paid without him 
returning the form.
The email was clearly sent in error, as there would be no requirement for Mr P to provide his 
own medical evidence. So, my view is that it was a mistake, in common with the other 
mistakes that occurred during Mr Ps claim. I appreciate Mr P didnt see it as a simple error 
and thought that it was a deliberate attempt to further delay the claim. But overall, Im not 
persuaded that there was any intention on the part of Great Lakes to be intimidating or 
threatening.  
Great Lakes letter of 12 January 2023 doesnt specifically address the email. But it does 
state that its response relates, amongst other things, to requests for documentation and 
further evidence. So, Im satisfied that Great Lakes looked at the claims process in its 
entirety when reaching the compensation figure of £200. I do accept though that its later 
letter of 21 February 2023 omitted any mention of the email.
The excess amount and the compensation are essentially separate issues. 
Mr Ps point is really that hed like the compensation figure to be increased as he doesnt feel 
it is sufficient for the upset that was caused, particularly in light of the excess amount that 
was deducted from the claim.
Im satisfied Great Lakes considered the email in its original compensation award. As such, I 
wont comment further as this was considered previously by this service and deemed to be 
fair and reasonable.
And in terms of the excess payment of £100, having looked at the policy terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied the £100 excess was correctly applied to the claim pay out. Mr P 
would have had to pay this in any event, regardless of whether he made a complaint or not.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman