DRN-3035107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that its unfair for Barclays Bank UK PLC to apply an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of 5%. Mr C has dealt with the complaint throughout. He asks that 
the ERC is waived.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Barclays in March 2018 with a 10-year fixed interest 
rate product. Mr C says Barclays didnt make it clear that an ERC of 5% would apply during 
the whole product term. He says he expected it would reduce over time. Due to family 
circumstances the house is being sold and Mr C asks that the ERC is waived.
Our investigator said the ERC was set out in the mortgage offer and Barclays hadnt misled 
Mr and Mrs C about it.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with a fixed interest rate product in 2018. Barclays sent a 
mortgage offer which set out the terms, including the ERC. The mortgage offer says the 
ERC is payable until 30 April 2028. It sets out clearly, in a table, the start and end dates of 
the ERC, the basis of the charge (5% of the amount repaid), and the amount that would be 
due if the whole loan was repaid. 
When Mr and Mrs C accepted the mortgage offer they agreed to its terms, including the 
ERC. Mr and Mrs C intend to sell the property and repay the mortgage during the product 
term. If they do, Barclays will be entitled, under the terms and conditions of the mortgage, to 
apply the ERC.
Mr C explained the circumstances that led to their decision to sell the house. I want to say 
how very sorry I am for this. 
Mr C says it would be unfair for Barclays to apply the ERC. He says it didnt make it clear 
that the ERC would apply at the same rate for the whole product term. I must bear in mind 
here that the ERC is clearly set out in the mortgage offer. Id only find it fair to require 
Barclays to waive all or part of the ERC on the basis Mr and Mrs C were misled if theres 
evidence of this. 
Barclays can only provide a recording for one call between Mr and Mrs C and its mortgage 
adviser. This was a call about affordability and didnt include a discussion about the product. 
Barclays says this might be because the advice was given at a branch, or because its 
adviser used a mobile phone. Mr C says all advice was given by phone, and as he asked for 
appointments to be by phone, it seems likely this is what happened. 
However, this doesnt mean that Barclays misled Mr and Mrs C about the ERC. In fact, Mr C 
says they didnt have an in-depth discussion about the ERC with the adviser. Mr C hasnt 
said they werent aware there was an ERC  only that they expected it to reduce. But I must 
here take into account that the ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer.
Mr and Mrs C signed the mortgage offer. If they didnt read it first, or werent sure how the 
ERC worked, I dont think Barclays would have known this.
Mr and Mrs C already had a mortgage with Barclays. Mr C says they should have been 
allowed to keep their previous mortgage and take out additional borrowing. This would have 
reduced the amount of the ERC they might now need to pay. Mr C says Barclays told him 
they couldnt do this.
Theres no recording available of what Barclays mortgage adviser told Mr and Mrs C about 
the existing loan. Theres a reference in a final response letter from May 2018 to Mr and 
Mrs C wanting to know the maximum amount they could borrow. The call recording that is 
available includes a discussion about affordability (of existing and new borrowing) over 
different terms. The mortgage application says the previous mortgage had a balance of 
about £25,000 and a remaining term of five years. The mortgage Mr and Mrs C took out was 
for £220,000 with a term of 25 years. It might be that the existing loan was refinanced into 
the new mortgage for affordability reasons.
While its unfortunate that we dont have more information about this, I dont think I can fairly 
find that Barclays misled Mr and Mrs C about how the ERC would work. Ultimately the terms 
were set out in the mortgage offer, including the ERC. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to waive the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman