DRN-3923531
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly reduced her overdraft 
limit without notice.
What happened
Ms S says Halifax reduced her overdraft limit from £1,470 to £400 in August 2022 without 
notice. She says she relied on the facility and wasnt given an opportunity to make 
representations about the decision as she didnt receive Halifaxs letter about the decision. 
Ms S would like the overdraft facility increased to at least £1,000 and says in the past she 
was able to negotiate a reduction. She says she asked Halifax for clarification about the 
decision which wasnt provided and says she has been a Halifax customer for about 30 
years.
Halifax says it hasnt made a mistake and is entitled to reduce or remove an overdraft facility 
on demand in line with account terms and conditions. It says it wrote to Ms S on 18 July 
2022 telling her the overdraft facility would reduce to £400 on 24 August 2022. It also says 
Ms S is able to apply for an increased overdraft facility but says it will not make public its 
lending criteria.
Ms S brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Halifax had acted in line with account terms and conditions and couldnt 
hold it responsible for Ms S not receiving the letter. 
Ms S doesnt accept that view and says Halifax hasnt acted fairly and questions why the 
letter was not sent to her via online banking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms S will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Ms Ss account terms and conditions which I think Ms S would 
have agreed to when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
an overdraft is repayable on demand and that Halifax can reduce an overdraft amount by 
usually providing 30 days notice. I can see from Halifaxs records that it sent Ms S a letter 
on 18 July 2022 telling her the overdraft facility would be reducing the following month. So, I 
dont think Halifax made a mistake by reducing the facility and that it did send Ms S notice of 
the change. Im satisfied Halifax acted in line with account terms and conditions and is 
entitled to make such commercial decisions about overdraft amounts.
I appreciate Ms S says she didnt receive the letter and so was prevented from making 
representations about the decision as she had previously done. I cant fairly hold Halifax 
responsible for the safe delivery of the mail and in any event think it impossible to be sure 
what may have taken place even if Ms S had received the letter. I dont think it clear if Ms S 
has applied to Halifax for a new overdraft amount. It follows that I dont think it matters how 
the letter was sent or if it could have been sent via online banking.
I also appreciate Ms S questions the fairness of the decision and the fairness of the account 
terms and conditions which allow Halifax to vary the overdraft amount. I make clear to Ms S 
that it would be for a court to determine such matters and I have made clear that Im satisfied 
Halifax acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman