DRN-2867214
The complaint
Mr G complains Cabot Credit Management Group Limited continued to report a default on 
his credit file for a credit card debt hed told them hed paid off.
What happened
Mr G completed an application for a credit card with a company Ill call ND in October 2016 
which was successful. The account was defaulted by ND in December 2017, and then sold 
by them to the Cabot group on 5 January 2018 after they said minimum payments werent 
made and an outstanding balance was due.
Cabot said after several contacts which received no reply they passed the matter on to their 
solicitors, who Ill call MCS. 
MCS attempted to contact Mr G as well, but with no reply proceeded to take the matter to 
court in June 2018.
Mr G replied to this, saying hed paid the outstanding balance to ND on 19 June 2017 by 
cheque to clear the balance before he moved abroad for 12 months. Hes said he returned to 
the country in July 2018. This is when he replied to MCS, and having heard nothing further, 
thought the matter was resolved.
Cabot have said during this time, MCS had referred the matter back to them querying the 
information Mr G had given. Theyd asked ND if Mr G had paid off the balance as he said he 
had  and asked for evidence from them in the form of account statements and the 
application. ND replied, and told Cabot they had no record of a final payment to clear the 
balance. ND also sent copies of statements and the application, which were added to their 
file in February 2019. Cabot said unfortunately they couldnt see MCS had contacted Mr G 
about this until he got back in touch with them in May 2020.
Mr G raised a complaint with Cabot, as he had a bank statement showing the cheque for 
£279.48 had left his account  meaning he had repaid the debt. He said he became aware of 
the issue as he was applying for a loan for his business, and then noticed the default was 
being reported by Cabot. He didnt think this was fair as hed paid off the debt. He was then 
also concerned at how long it took Cabot to remove the default  as the loan he was 
applying for was a Government backed one put in place due to the pandemic which had a 
time limit. He felt MCS were Cabots responsibility  so they should address his concerns 
about their communication as well.
Cabot explained theyd passed on Mr Gs concerns about the recording of the default to ND, 
as it was them whod instructed them to record it  and who had told them there was no 
record of any final payment for £279.48. They also passed on any concerns Mr G had about 
MCS to them, as theyre a separate company in their own right. In response to the concerns 
they said applied to them, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong as theyd queried the 
payment.
In a second, later response, Cabot explained ND had now told them the default was going to 
be removed. They explained it usually takes up to 60 days to show but given Mr Gs urgent 
need to get the loan to support his business, theyd arranged for it to be done in three days 
as an exception.
Unhappy with this, Mr G asked us to look into things. He felt Cabot should pay him £500 
compensation for the distress hed been caused.
One of our investigators considered things. He felt Cabot hadnt done anything wrong. He 
explained it was only when ND had confirmed the default was going to be removed that they 
could start the process of removing it  and theyd done that quite quickly.
Mr G didnt agree and felt some of the costs hed incurred raising his complaint to Cabot 
should at least have been covered.
I understand NDs position is that they never received the payment of £279.48. But its clear 
Mr G made it, and then closed his account with his bank as he was moving abroad  so 
thats presented difficulties in tracking whats likely happened to the payment. Against that 
backdrop, theyve agreed to the default being removed. I provide this information for context 
only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that Im only considering a complaint against Cabot in this 
decision. I cant consider a complaint against ND (although I can see this has since been 
resolved) nor can I consider a complaint against MCS. What Cabot said is right  they are 
separate companies.
So, that does limit the scope of my review into Mr Gs concerns  in that I need to focus on 
whether Cabot acted appropriately in recording the default and took fair steps to try and 
resolve the concerns Mr G raised when he realised the default hadnt been removed.
Recording the default
When a company takes over a debt theyre required to continue reporting whatever the 
original lender was reporting  in Mr Gs case a default. 
I dont know if Cabot did that in Mr Gs case, but its clear that, even if they had asked ND 
when taking over the debt in January 2018, theyd have been told the default had been 
properly recorded. Thats because it wasnt until Mr G started raising queries about the 
default in 2020 that the issue regarding the payment came to light.
So, I dont find Cabot have done anything wrong in reporting the default when they took over 
ownership of Mr Gs debt.
Have Cabot acted fairly in investigating the default issue
When Mr G replied to MCSs court documents saying hed paid off the debt, the matter was 
referred back to Cabot.
Ive not seen anything to show Cabot have unreasonably delayed the investigation into 
whether the default should or shouldnt be applied. I can see theyd asked ND for explanations of whatd happened, and ND told them they didnt have any record of the 
payment. This is evidenced by ND sending Cabot statements after Mr G said hed paid off 
the balance, showing the account was still open.
Cabot dont have access to NDs systems, so are relying on the information given to them by 
ND about whether an account has been paid off or not. It seems its only when ND 
investigated the matter, they came to the conclusion they couldnt confirm whatd happened 
to Mr Gs payment. ND said its possible it was returned to Mr Gs bank but couldnt confirm 
this. As they couldnt confirm this  they made the decision to remove the default.
As Cabot didnt record the default, thats a decision ND had to make  as they were the ones 
who applied it in the first instance. And I think its fair to say given the unusual circumstances 
of Mr Gs final payment, this might take some time. Looking at Cabots actions I cant see 
theyve been responsible for any unreasonable delays.
I note that ultimately Cabot said the default was removed within three days so Mr G could 
take advantage of the Governments scheme for business loans to help him during the 
pandemic.
I can see Mr G wanted his costs refunded  and asked for £500 compensation. I can 
understand why, but Id only instruct Cabot to do either of these if I thought theyd made a 
mistake. Having to complain is naturally an inconvenient situation, and from Mr Gs 
perspective hes had to speak to three different entities and our service about the issues  
which no doubts increases his frustration. But, overall, I cant see Cabot have caused or 
contributed to the situation Mr G found himself in. As a result of that, I wont be telling them 
to pay any costs or compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman