DRN-3717604
The complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) has unfairly refused to meet a claim 
hes made on his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S holds private medical insurance with BUPA. He had a stroke in 2022 and was 
hospitalised. He was told that a hole in his heart  which is present in everyone when born  
hadnt closed, as it normally does over time. That left him more prone to problems such as 
strokes later in life. Mr Ss treating consultant recommended that Mr S have surgery to close 
the hole as a precaution against further problems.
Mr S asked BUPA to pay for the operation, but it said it wouldnt, because the policy Mr S 
has doesnt cover the correction of congenital problems  whether thats a disease or an 
abnormality.
Mr S complained about this, but BUPA hasnt changed its stance, so he asked us to review 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had treated Mr S fairly. He noted that a hole in the heart 
is present in everybody when they are born, but that this hole normally closes some time 
after birth. He didnt think that, in these circumstances, BUPA had shown that Mr Ss 
condition was congenital, as it wasnt an abnormality he was born with, but something that 
hadnt corrected itself after he was born. He thought BUPA should reconsider Mr Ss claim.
BUPA sent some more information in, and pointed out that congenital conditions were 
defined in the policy  although in a section headed rules rather than definitions. Our 
investigator didnt think the wording altered his opinion. 
BUPA didnt think this was fair, but also said it would contribute £10,000 towards the cost of 
Mr Ss operation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S hasnt accepted this offer, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my decision, I must say that Ive reached my conclusions by considering 
only the specific circumstances of Mr Ss claim. Having said that, Im going to uphold this 
complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ive looked carefully at the description of congenital conditions contained in Mr Ss policy. 
Its included in a list of exclusions  conditions and/or circumstances in which BUPA can 
fairly refuse to meet a claim.
The description says BUPA need not pay for treatment of any abnormality, deformity, 
disease  present at birth after the first 90 days. I dont think that helps me reach a fair 
conclusion as the condition Mr S has is present in all new-born babies. It doesnt appear to 
be an abnormality as described here.
Ive borne in mind that BUPA drafted the terms and conditions for Mr Ss policy. If it had 
wanted to exclude cover for the condition Mr S now has, then it could have specified that in 
the terms and conditions. It didnt choose to do that, so I dont think its fair for BUPA to 
refuse Mr Ss cover based solely on this description.
BUPA has provided some medical opinions that say Mr Ss condition is congenital  and Mr 
Ss treating consultant has sent in a report that supports his belief that it isnt.
Im not medically qualified, but I can say which report Im most persuaded by. Like our 
investigator, I think thats the one from Mr Ss consultant. I say this because:
He has more knowledge of Mr Ss condition than anyone else submitting reports. 
He says that Mr Ss condition is not  technically  a congenital heart condition. 
The supporting documents hes provided are from NHS England congenital heart 
disease standards, which I find persuasive. 
I dont think the word technically in the consultants letter affects my decision  Ive 
interpreted that as a reflection that there may well be some difference of opinion on this 
point. 
In contrast, both opinions from BUPAs in house medical team say the condition is 
congenital. One of the opinions in BUPAs records has no supporting evidence or reasoning 
and the other has no supporting evidence, although it does note that most people who grow 
up with the condition are asymptomatic. BUPA also later provided an excerpt from a website 
that says the hole normally closes during infancy and a second that says the hole 
frequently persists into adulthood and individuals are mostly asymptomatic. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think BUPA has provided sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that Mr Ss condition meets its definition of a congenital defect. So I dont think 
it treated Mr S fairly when it refused his claim. I note that BUPA offered a goodwill 
settlement, and that does seem to be a for offer, although I dont know the exact costs Mr S 
may have incurred by this time.
Putting things right
To put things right, BUPA should reconsider Mr Ss claim, without applying the exclusion that 
the condition is congenital. For clarity, Im not saying BUPA should automatically meet the 
claim in full as there may be other terms and conditions which apply to Mr Ss claim. Of 
course, should Mr S want to accept BUPAs goodwill offer, Id expect BUPA to allow him to 
do that instead.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
reconsider Mr Ss complaint as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman