DRN-4323680
The complaint
Miss A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC contacted her about her father's account and was 
concerned that her details would be shared and that there had been a data protection 
breach in respect of her account.
What happened
in January 2023, after her father had opened a new bank account, Miss A started to receive 
emails and text messages from his bank concerning his account. She complained to Lloyds 
who told her that it couldn't share any details of a third party account but that there had been 
no breach of her data protection rights.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator advised Miss A that any 
complaints about her father's details being sent to her should be made by her father as they 
concerned his bank. In respect of Miss A's account with Lloyds, our Investigator noted 
Lloyds had not contacted her about this account since 2020 but that the receipts of emails 
and text messages regarding her fathers account did not constitute a breach of her data 
protection rights. And there was no evidence that any of her details were being shared.
Miss A did not agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Miss A told our Investigator recently that she was continuing to receive 
messages and emails about her father's account. I should explain that this decision 
concerns Miss A's account with Lloyds Bank and whether it has shared her details or 
breached her data protection rights. I fully appreciate that she is concerned about her father 
but any complaint about his details being sent to Miss A has to be dealt with as a separate 
matter. I understand that Miss A acts as his representative for that complaint so she will be 
aware about what is happening concerning that complaint. 
I understand that Miss A is unhappy about receiving messages and emails about her father's 
account. In respect of her own account, she has not had any contact with Lloyds about this 
since 2020. Miss A is concerned that details of her account have been shared with a third 
party. I am persuaded however that there is no evidence that this has happened. 
I understand that Miss A feels that her data protection rights are being breached, but I dont 
think that the sending of Miss As fathers details to her is an issue concerning her data. 
I should add that issues about the Data Protection Act and any breaches of it are generally 
dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office, and Miss A can contact it if she is 
concerned about any breaches of her data protection rights.
So I can't uphold Miss As complaint about her own account. I hope that she understands 
that in respect of her own complaint I can't set out any details of what may have happened 
with her father's account.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman