DRN-2469580
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about the charges applied to his account at the end of his conditional 
sale agreement with LeasePlan UK Limited.
What happened
Mr E entered into a three year conditional sale agreement with LeasePlan in November 
2016. When he returned the car at the end of the agreement he says he received a demand 
for payment for damage to the wheel surface, a scratch under the front bumper and non-
payment of road tax. He says the car was in excellent condition with the scratch under the 
bumper not being visible and the wheels only suffering normal wear and tear. He says the 
car was returned with low mileage and he had paid the road tax in full.
Mr E contacted LeasePlan and says the charge for unpaid road tax was removed and the 
charge for the damage to the bumper reduced by £75 as a gesture of goodwill. He says he 
was then called by LeasePlan and offered a further reduction of £50 but he didnt accept 
this. He says that LeasePlans guidance regarding damage to the tyres didnt support the 
charge being made.
LeasePlan issued its final response dated 26 January 2020. It said that the inspection report 
carried out when the car was collected supported the damage charges that had been applied 
and there was no provision in the agreement for a reduction in charges should the car be 
returned under mileage. It said that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) guidelines advised that scratches on plastic trims over 25mm were unacceptable. It 
noted that the damage was visible but as a gesture of goodwill it offered to reduce the 
charge by £75. It said there was damage to the alloy on the nearside and offside front 
wheels and that the scuffs were greater than 50mm in each case and so the damage charge 
had been applied correctly.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He was satisfied that the damage being 
charged for  that is the front bumper and two alloy wheels  exceeded fair wear and tear 
and so it was reasonable that the charges were applied. He noted that LeasePlan had 
reduced the charge for the bumper damage by £75 which he found reasonable. He asked 
that LeasePlan treat Mr E fairly by arranging a suitable and affordable payment plan to clear 
the outstanding charges.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators view. He said that LeasePlans wording regarding 
damage should be the basis for the assessment and not the industry standards. He said the 
inspection report showed tiny marks on the bumper which was plastic so comments made 
about exposed metal werent relevant. He said that LeasePlans wording regarding the 
wheels referred to major damage to the side walls or uneven tread plus any other damage 
to the wheel surface". He said there was no damage to the tyres and so for the damage to 
be chargeable LeasePlans wording would read major damage to the side walls or uneven 
tread or any other damage".
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
The agreement Mr E entered set out the return conditions for the car. It says that 
charges would be made for any damage that wasnt considered reasonable wear and 
tear. The terms set out that the car would be subject to a collection inspection report 
and this took place at the end of the agreement. A copy of the report has been 
provided. The report details the damage it considers falls outside of fair wear and 
tear. This is recorded as a deep scratch to the front bumper and damage to two 
alloys. Based on the information provided LeasePlan followed its usual process for 
assessing the car at the end of the agreement and applied charges to Mr Es account 
based on the results of the inspection report.
Mr E has said the damage to the front bumper wasnt visible  noting damage 
underneath the bumper. I have looked at the photographs included in the inspection 
report and can see the scratches on the front bumper. There is then an area of the 
bumper that shows more significant damage. This damage is what I believe Mr E has 
said isnt visible. While I note Mr Es comments, I find that the damage to the bumper 
falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. The BVRLA guidelines say that 
damage where the primer is showing are not acceptable, dents over 15 mm are also 
not acceptable. In this case the damage to the bumper goes through the paintwork 
and the panel below is damaged. There are also marks on the bumper. I find it 
reasonable that a charge was made for the bumper damage. LeasePlan reduced the 
charge applied by £75 which I find reasonable.
The damage to the two wheels is also shown in the inspection report photographs. 
The BVRLA guidelines set out that any damage to the wheel spokes, facia or hubs 
isnt acceptable. It says scuffs up to 50mm are acceptable. I agree that the damage 
in this case exceeds the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear. 
Mr E doesnt think the BVRLA guidelines are the appropriate measure to use and has 
referred to information provided by LeasePlan about damage to the tyres and 
wheels. Given Mr Es comments we contacted LeasePlan about the criteria it used to 
assess damage to tyres. It confirmed that it used the guide provided by the BVRLA. 
So, while I note Mr Es comments, I find it reasonable that the industry guidelines are 
used as a measure for assessing fair wear and tear and in this case I find it supports 
the charges that have been applied.
I understand Mr Es comments about the car having low mileage. But the agreement 
doesnt allow for a reduction to be applied for using a lower mileage than the 
allowance. Therefore I do not find I can require LeasePlan to apply any deduction to 
the charges because of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about LeasePlan UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman