DRN-4081936
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that Granite Finance Ltd changed the way it collected payments on a 
finance agreement he took out to pay for his car insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr B took out an annual car insurance policy through a broker. He wanted to 
pay the annual premium in monthly instalments. To enable him to do so, Mr B entered into a 
finance agreement provided by Granite. In doing so, Granite paid the annual premium on 
Mr Bs behalf and Mr B agreed to repay this in line with the terms of the finance agreement.
On 7 June 2022 Mr Bs monthly direct debit was returned unpaid by the bank. So Granite 
wrote to Mr B on 16 June 2022 to say he needed to make the payment by 30 June 2022 or it 
would instruct the broker to cancel the insurance policy. Mr B called Granite on 29 June 
2022 to ask it for a further extension to pay the missed direct debit. Granite didnt agree to 
this and said Mr B needed to call back the next day. Mr B called the next day and asked for 
a further one day extension as he says he was getting paid then, but Granite again didnt 
agree to this and said it would instruct the broker to cancel the policy if he didnt pay the 
missed payment by the end of the day. 
Mr B called Granite on 1 July 2022 to make the missed payment, but he was told the policy 
had been cancelled. Mr B paid the missed payment and arranged to take out a new 
insurance policy. However, Granite wasnt willing to continue with a direct debit arrangement 
and said payments now needed to be made through a continuous payment authority (CPA) 
 where payments were taken from a card.
Mr Bs payments for July and August 2022 didnt go through. Mr B called in July 2022 and 
made the July payment and no administration fees were charged. However, when Mr B 
called in August 2022 to pay the missed August payment, he was told an administration fee 
of £25 had been charged and he needed to pay that. Mr B then complained that the terms of 
the contract had been changed by insisting payments had to be made by CPA as opposed 
to by direct debit. 
Granite didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, so he referred it to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought Granite had been premature in 
instructing the policy to be cancelled in June 2022. But she didnt think Mr B had lost out as 
a result and she was satisfied that it was made clear to Mr B that the payments would be 
taken by CPA going forward.
Mr B maintained he wasnt told about the change in terms, so asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
There are two issues here for me to consider:
1. Was it fair for Granite to request the policy be cancelled; and
2. Was it made clear to Mr B that future payments will be paid through CPA?
I shall consider each point separately.
Cancellation
I dont think Granite acted fairly in requiring the insurance policy be cancelled. The terms of 
Mr Bs insurance policy would have set out that Granite could require that the broker cancels 
the policy if he missed a payment on his finance agreement. But, generally speaking, I dont 
think its fair for an insurance policy to be cancelled as soon as a payment is missed. 
A finance provider can ask for an insurance policy to be cancelled as a means to recover 
outstanding arrears on the finance agreement  as Granite did in this case. But cancellation 
can have severe implications on a consumer, as it invariably results in charges being 
incurred due to the cancellation. It can also lead to further difficulties in getting replacement 
insurance. This is likely to then put the consumer in a worse position than they were in 
before the cancellation. And this doesnt align with regulatory requirements to treat 
customers fairly. Further to this industry regulations sets out a number of options I would 
have expected Granite to have considered to assist Mr B clear his arrears. Ultimately, I think 
cancellation should be a last resort and only considered after other avenues had been 
explored.
In this case all Mr B asked for was a days extension to make the payment as he set out he 
was expecting to be paid the next day. I dont think refusing this extension was in keeping 
with Granites obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) as set out in PRIN 2.1.1 R 
(Principles for Businesses)  to treat its customers fairly. Further to this Ive also considered 
CONC 7.3.2A which sets out that businesses should allow a period of forbearance to enable 
consumers to get back on track. Ive not seen anything to show that Granite considered any 
forbearance at all. As I said, all Mr B was asking for was a days extension and I think 
Granite should have reasonably allowed this.
However, while I think Granite shouldnt have cancelled the insurance policy, I havent seen 
anything to show Mr Bs lost out. I havent seen anything to show that Mr B was charged a 
cancellation fee when the policy was cancelled. It also seems that the annual premium 
remained the same. So, in essence, the policy continued as it had before  with the 
exception in the change in payment method that Ill consider later.
So, given I dont think Mr B has lost out from the policys cancellation, I dont think Granite 
needs to compensate him for this.
Change in payment method
Mr B is unhappy that he says he wasnt told Granite was changing the way it was taking the 
payment. But I dont agree. Ive listened to the telephone call Mr B had at the time and he 
was clearly told that future payments would be taken through CPA. Mr B acknowledged this 
and provided his card details to enable this to be done.
But, even if that wasnt the case, I dont think Mr B has lost out. Mr B didnt find himself in the position he was in because of the change in payment method, but because the payments 
didnt go through as they were declined by his bank. The situation would likely have been the 
same whether the payment was taken by direct debit or by using the debit card for the 
account. Payment was still being taken from the same account on the same payment date. It 
appears the payments didnt go through because of insufficient funds in the account, as 
opposed to anything Granite did. So, it follows, that I dont think Granite was responsible for 
this.
I note Mr B is unhappy Granite charged a £25 administration charge for missed payments on 
the finance agreement. But, Granite charged £25 for missed payments regarding the 
insurance policy that was cancelled as well. There havent been any change in the terms of 
the contracts  both the insurance policy and the finance agreement. Ultimately, I dont think 
anything has materially changed after the policy was cancelled.
Summary
Ive read and considered everything Mr B has said. As I said, I think Granite were premature 
in requiring the insurance policy be cancelled. But Im not persuaded that Mr B has lost out 
because of anything Granite may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman