DRN-3835966
The complaint
Ms N complains about the service she received from Metro Bank PLC following her request 
to open a business account.
What happened
Ms N banks with Metro Bank. In addition to the two personal accounts Ms N holds, around 
March 2022 she opened a sole trader account to use for her business. Ms N said she 
expected the new account to be added to her personal profile, so that shed be able to see 
both her personal accounts and her business account when accessing her banking online.  
However, due to an IT system issue, a duplicated profile was created, and her personal 
profile was not linked to her business profile, and she was instead given a new personal ID. 
As a result, Ms N said she experienced significant problems accessing both her personal 
and business accounts. 
Ms N asked for the profiles to be merged, but due to what Metro Bank have described as a 
clear lack of ownership and broken promises, this did not happen for a significant period of 
time, during which Ms N continued to face issues accessing all of her accounts for a number 
of months. She said this caused significant distress, as well as reputational damage to her 
business  so she complained. 
Metro Bank considered Ms Ns complaint, and initially offered to refund around £20 to cover 
any charges Ms N may have incurred as a result of their errors. They later withdrew this and 
replaced it with a compensatory payment of £60 which they said they credited to Ms Ns 
account. They then offered a further £60 compensation, but Ms N declined this. She said 
that a compensation payment in the region of £1,500 would be a fairer resolution. She also 
highlighted that her access issues remained ongoing. 
A further review of Ms Ns complaint was carried out following her request for increased 
compensation; and it seems that Metro Bank were able to resolve Ms Ns access issues, 
having merged her profiles, so that all of her accounts could be accessed under the one 
profile. They apologised again for the level of service provided (which they accepted fell 
short of what Ms N shouldve expected to receive), and increased their compensation offer, 
initially to £200, then later £250, in addition to the £60 they said theyd already paid, taking 
the total compensation offer to £310. 
But Ms N remained unhappy with both how the original matter was dealt with, and how her 
subsequent complaint was managed. She said that she felt being repeatedly being told by a 
group of men that she was in the wrong, effectively amounted to gaslighting. So, she brought 
her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the matter, and was also satisfied that Metro Bank had provided 
poor service to Ms N. But she acknowledged that Metro Bank had since resolved the issues 
with access and thought their offer of £310 was fair in the circumstances. 
Ms N remained unhappy however, so the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ns set out her position at length and Id like to thank her for taking the time to do so. But 
my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Ms N has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service. 
Its no longer in question that the service Metro Bank provided to Ms N fell short. Ms N has 
set out clearly why she felt this was, including, among other things; a lack of proactive 
contact from Metro Bank, the matter taking an excessive amount of time, and that repeatedly 
being told by a group of men that she was in the wrong effectively amounted to gaslighting.
Metro Bank have agreed that their service fell short. And, for the avoidance of doubt, in 
relation to the account access issues, while it seems an IT system issue was the catalyst for 
this complaint, ultimately Im satisfied that Metro Bank are responsible for this issue. Im also 
satisfied there were a number of opportunities for Metro Bank to resolve this issue for Ms N 
long before they did, and that the poor service and delays caused her considerable distress.
Im also satisfied, based on the evidence provided by both parties, that Ms Ns account 
access issues are now resolved. So, what remains to be decided is how I think Ms N should 
be compensated for the shortcomings in the service delivered by Metro Bank. 
Ive now listened to all of the calls provided between Ms N and Metro Bank, and its clear 
throughout that both Metro Banks handling of Ms Ns initial concerns, as well as their 
ongoing handling of her complaint, must have caused Ms N a lot of inconvenience. I havent 
set out the detail of every call here, but I can confirm that Ive listened to all of the calls that 
were sent to our service. These include the initial concerns Ms N raised, the subsequent 
raising of a formal complaint, and several calls regarding updates on specific transactions. 
Ive also listened to calls where Ms N had to chase for updates on her complaint, and calls 
relating to the activation of her business debit card, among others. And on nearly every call, 
Ms N seems to have to reiterate her complaint, and set out what happened previously.
On many of these calls, the advisors dont seem to fully grasp Ms Ns concerns, or 
otherwise, they provide generic feedback thats not particularly useful in the context of 
Ms Ns overall complaint. I think the whole process felt very dis-jointed, with the next advisor, 
seemingly not knowing, or having not checked any background notes, to understand the 
drawn-out position Ms N had found herself in so far. 
I also note that in nearly all but a few cases, the calls were made from Ms N to Metro Bank, 
with there being very little in the way of pro-active updates from Metro Bank in relation to 
both the underlying problems Ms N was experiencing, and her subsequent complaint. I can 
also see Ms N raised further issues about payment of the compensation they had agreed to. 
Overall, I think this would have been an incredibly frustrating position for Ms N to find herself 
in. And while things may go wrong with customers accounts at times, I think the amount of 
time Ms N had to spend trying to fix this issue was disproportionate. And I think a lot more 
couldve been done sooner to escalate this matter and try and find a solution to the problem. 
So, for these reasons, I am satisfied Ms N should be compensated. 
 
Ive also considered what Ms N has told us she does for a living, and what could be 
perceived as poor management of her own financial affairs could impact how she is viewed by her clients who she supports. Shes told us that she had to contact clients and try and 
rectify payment issues she experienced. 
Ive also considered Ms Ns comments about the minimum wage. That being said, Ive had 
to balance this with the fact, that while difficult, Ms N wasnt prevented completely from 
accessing her account information  as she was able to call in, and obtain the account 
information she needed, and was able to work throughout this period. But I do accept this 
was very disruptive for Miss N, with her having to call multiple times, and go through high 
volumes of transactions in order to be able to effectively manage her finances. And this 
wouldve made things particularly difficult for her.
That being said, I can see that Metro Bank have considered their position, and accept that 
their service fell well short of what Ms N shouldve expected. And following what I appreciate 
was a long drawn out process, Metro Bank have managed to now resolve the issues with 
access that Ms N experienced. 
In  addition to having resolved the underlying issue; and while I accept that what has 
happened has been particularly difficult for Ms N, and I dont take her comments made lightly, 
I do think the £310 Metro Bank have agreed to pay in compensation is a considerable sum.
So, while I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment, I am satisfied that the 
compensation Metro Bank have offered, while less than Ms N would have hoped for, is a fair 
level of compensation for the troubles Ms N experienced, as a result of Metro Banks 
shortcomings. So, for the reasons set out above, I wont be asking Metro Bank to do any 
more than its agreed to. 
My final decision
Metro Bank PLC have already agreed to pay Ms N £310 in total in compensation, and I think 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay Ms N the £310 
they agreed to, if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman