DRN-3753280
The complaint
Dr S is a sole trader. He is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC rejected his Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL) application.
What happened
In November 2020, Dr S applied to Barclays for a BBL for his business, which had initially 
been run by his father on a sole trader basis, and then as a partnership by Dr S and his 
father, but which had been run solely by Dr S following his fathers retirement in April 2020. 
Dr S was running his business through an account held with Barclays, but which had 
remained in the sole name of his father.
Barclays declined Dr Ss BBL application because the business profile with them hadnt 
been updated from when Dr Ss father ran the business himself as a sole trader. This meant 
that Dr S himself didnt at that time have the requisite business relationship with Barclays for 
them to consider providing him with a BBL. Barclays confirmed they would be willing to 
review an application from Dr S, but that Dr S wouldnt then be able to use the trading 
activity from when the business profile was in his fathers sole name to demonstrate his 
eligibility for a BBL. Dr S wasnt happy about Barclays decision, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Dr Ss complaint. They confirmed their decision to not approve his BBL 
application, and they didnt feel that theyd done anything wrong by doing so. Dr S wasnt 
satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Dr S in how theyd managed this situation. Dr S remained dissatisfied, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dr S has explained that the business in question was run by his father and himself on a 
partnership basis from 2015 onwards, and he feels that this is evidenced by the business 
account statements during this period which are titled jointly to himself and his father. Dr S 
has also explained how Barclays business relationship managers have conducted several 
face-to-face meetings about the business with him alone, without his father being present, 
and he therefore feels that it shouldnt be the case that Barclays should consider the 
business as being a sole trader entity in the name of his father. 
I can appreciate Dr Ss position here, to a degree. But Barclays have confirmed that the 
business profile within which the business accounts are held has remained as being a sole 
trader business in the name of Dr Ss father. And Barclays have also provided contact notes 
from 2015 which Im satisfied demonstrate that a discussion was held between Barclays and 
Dr Ss father as to whether to change the business profile to being a partnership, but that Dr 
Ss father decided to leave the profile as being a sole trader business in his own name.
While I can appreciate how the way the account statements are titled and how the way 
Barclays relationship managers interacted with Dr S could be misleading, I dont feel that 
either of these points supersedes the fact that the business profile remained as being a sole 
trader account in Dr Ss fathers name. This is important, and I feel the status of the business 
profile was something which Dr S should reasonably have been aware of and that it was 
incumbent on him and/or his father to have updated and corrected this when appropriate.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have done anything wrong 
here. This is because Dr S wasnt entitled to apply for a BBL in regard to a sole trader 
business in his fathers name, and because the responsibility for ensuring that the business 
profile was updated correctly rested with Dr S and his father. 
Barclays explained to Dr S they wouldnt be able to amend the existing business accounts to 
being a sole trader business in his own name and that new accounts would need to be set 
up. Barclays also explained that if Dr S did set up new accounts, and then wanted to apply 
for a BBL, that he wouldnt be able to use the account statements for the time the business 
was in his fathers name to show proof of trading or turnover  given that the activity 
demonstrated by those statements would be for a business not in Dr Ss name. 
I can appreciate that this made it practically very difficult for Dr S to be able to demonstrate 
that his business had any turnover against which it could apply for a BBL. But I dont feel that 
Barclays should reasonably be considered as acting unfairly in this regard, for the reasons 
already explained. And I feel that had Dr S and his father maintained the business profile 
accurately, instead of allowing it to remain as being a sole trader business in Dr Ss fathers 
name, the issues which Dr S has complained about wouldnt in all likelihood have arisen.  
Dr S is also unhappy at how Barclays responded to his local MP about this matter, having 
been contacted by that MP at Dr Ss request. But I dont feel that Barclays have made any 
statements Id consider to be unfair or untrue, given my position as Ive outlined it above.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Dr S was wanting here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I hope hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman