DRN-4054506
The complaint
Mr R complains that, although he returned the required acceptance form to Santander UK 
Plc, it hasnt applied the fixed term interest mortgage deal he wanted to his account. He said 
Santander should honour that deal now.
What happened
Mr R said he contacted Santander well in advance of his old fixed rate mortgage deal 
expiring, to set up a new one. He said Santander told him hed have to sign and return a 
letter accepting the deal hed chosen, which he did. But he said Santander then claimed it 
hadnt received his form. It put him on a variable rate, which Mr R said he didnt want. 
Mr R said Santander had records of its conversation with him and of the letter being sent, 
but no letter received in return. He wanted Santander to honour the offer it had made a 
couple of months earlier, but it wouldnt.
Santander said that Mr R spoke to it on 21 June 2022, selected a fixed interest rate product, 
and a mortgage offer was sent to him. But Santander said it never received the acceptance 
for this. So it didnt put him on his preferred deal, instead it wrote to him to confirm that it 
would be charging him its standard variable rate of interest (SVR) from August 2022. 
Santander said that Mr R didnt then contact it until quite some time later, on 21 September 
2022. By then, rates had increased. It would be happy to offer him a new fixed rate, but it 
wouldnt honour the deal it had offered in June. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr R hadnt shown that 
the letter was sent, and he hadnt spoken to Santander until some time later, when the offer 
hed got previously had expired. Our investigator didnt think Santander had been aware that 
Mr R did intend to accept the offer, and he didnt think it had to honour it now. 
Mr R said that surely a recorded message with him agreeing to the deal is enough. He knew 
Santander had that, and it hadnt rung him to say it hadnt received the letter. He said the 
postal service told him the chance of a prepaid envelope going missing was very slim. Mr R 
said he was very angry.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Santander hadnt received the signed 
document. Our investigator had seen notes confirming Santander had written to Mr R on 3 
August, telling him his old rate had expired and hed have to pay the SVR. This letter was 
sent to the right address. But he didnt get in touch with Santander until late September. If Mr 
R had contacted the business shortly after receiving the offer expiration letter, it might have 
honoured the original offer. But our investigator didnt think Santander had to honour the 
offer in these circumstances. 
Mr R said hed contacted Santander as soon as he found out what had happened, and he 
showed us a letter from September telling him about a change to the SVR. He thought 
Santander might have destroyed the offer acceptance letter hed sent it. But our investigator 
didnt change his mind. He said we would expect Mr R to take the necessary steps to 
confirm the offer acceptance had been returned to Santander.
Mr R said hed planned well ahead, knowing that rates were likely to go up. If he had 
received Santanders letter at the start of August, he would have called. At first, Mr R said 
that he would take this issue to court, but then he said he wanted an ombudsman to 
consider this case, so his complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ive listened to the call Mr R had with Santander in late June, to arrange a new mortgage 
deal, starting in early August. On that call, Mr R chose a fixed interest rate deal, and 
Santander explained that he would need to accept this. It also said that his offer was open 
for 14 days, so he could shop around if he wanted to. 
Mr R felt that surely this call recording was enough for Santander to know he wanted to 
accept the offer it had made. But I dont think Santander should have assumed, just because 
Mr R discussed a rate with it, that he definitely wanted to take up the resulting offer. It was 
possible hed found a better deal elsewhere.
On this call, Santander gave Mr R the choice of receiving his offer by email or post. Mr R 
chose post, and Santander explained what that meant - hed get a letter he would need to 
sign and return. Santander also outlined for Mr R what correspondence he should expect 
after this. 
Mr R did get the offer letter, he says he signed and returned it. Santander says it just wasnt 
received. 
Santander has shown our service it then notified Mr R that his previous fixed rate deal was 
expiring. Mr R says he didnt get this letter either. But, as our investigator said, he also didnt 
get the documentation Santander had told him to expect, confirming his new deal. 
I also note that, instead of the monthly payment set out on his offer, his monthly mortgage 
payment went onto the SVR, which appears to have started in August. 
In September, Santander wrote to Mr R confirming that his monthly payment would increase 
again, as its SVR had risen. This increased monthly payment was due on 9 September, so it 
seems reasonable to assume that this letter was sent before that date. 
For these reasons, I do think there were opportunities for Mr R to be aware if something had 
gone wrong. However, Mr R didnt contact Santander until 21 September. 
As our investigator said, if Mr R had contacted Santander quickly, after not receiving the 
documentation confirming his offer had been applied, then it may have honoured his offer, 
as a gesture of goodwill. But in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to require Santander to do this. I know Mr R will be very 
disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman