DRN-4077278
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Legacy Wealth Management Limited (LWM) to 
transfer the benefits from two defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C was an existing client of LWM when he approached them in 2017 to discuss his 
pension and retirement needs  specifically in relation to his two DB pension schemes.
In March 2017 LWM completed a fact-find to gather up to date information about Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr C was 53; he was 
divorced; he had his own business; and he was aiming to have enough assets to be able to 
retire early from 55 onwards with a target income of £50,000 a year. LWM also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately adventurous.
Following a report in October 2017, which LWM says was issued to promote a discussion on 
Mr Cs retirement objectives and the options available to him to meet them, on 7 November 
2017 LWM advised Mr C to transfer both DB pensions into his existing SIPP and invest the 
proceeds in line with his current investment strategy. In summary the suitability report said 
the reasons for this recommendation were:
The shape of Mr Cs DB scheme benefits didnt suit his circumstances as he wanted 
to retire early and hed have to suffer an early retirement penalty.
Mr C wanted flexibility around his monthly income and the ability to vary his income.
Mr C wanted to pass on as much capital as possible to his heirs.
Mr C accepted the recommendation and two amounts - around £38,900 and £91,200 - were 
transferred into his existing SIPP. According to the recommendation report, the investment 
of these amounts was staggered  25% was invested on day one with three further tranches 
of 25% invested at the end of each month over the following three months.
In 2022 Mr C complained to LWM, via our service, about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
Mr C also complained that LWM wanted to charge him £5,000 for each transfer. 
LWM didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary it said its advice process gave Mr C plenty 
of time to consider and question the advice he received. It said the advice was suitable 
because it was aligned to both his risk profile and his low-cost objective. 
It said Mr C wouldnt have been able to take his DB scheme benefits early without reduction 
and his income need in retirement wouldnt have been met by remaining in the schemes. It 
said a flat fee of £5,000 was suggested at the outset to cover both transfers, but this was 
discounted further as set out in the suitability report.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr C asked our service to consider his complaint. An 
investigator did so and upheld the complaint and required LWM to pay compensation. In 
summary they said the critical yield or growth rates required to match Mr Cs DB scheme 
benefits meant he was likely to receive substantially lower overall benefits at retirement as a 
result of transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk. They said despite Mr Cs 
high capacity to absorb loss, based on this alone transferring wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. 
They also said there were also no other compelling reasons which meant a transfer was 
suitable despite providing lower overall benefits. They said LWM told Mr C he couldnt meet 
his retirement income objective of £50,000 by staying in his DB scheme  but its cashflow 
analysis showed that Mr C risked running out of money if he transferred and withdrew the 
amount of income he said he wanted. They said while it might have been nice for Mr C to 
retire early, LWM shouldve made him aware it might not have possible to meet his objective. 
They also said the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension 
arrangement shouldnt have been prioritised over what was best for Mr Cs retirement. If 
suitability advised, they said Mr C wouldve accepted the advice and remained in his DB 
schemes. And finally, in relation to the advice fee, they said LWM hadnt treated Mr C 
unfairly. They said there was no evidence Mr C was told hed have to pay £5,000 for each 
transfer  the cost of the advice was clear in the suitability report.
LWM disagreed with the investigators conclusions. I have read everything it has said in 
detail  but in summary LWM said:
It provided Mr C with suitable advice  it met all of his objectives and it acted in his 
best interests.
It has provided evidence that its starting assumption was not to transfer.
It has evidenced that Mr C did not place value on his guaranteed benefits and taking 
no risk was not his objective.
It provided Mr C with ample time to consider the options available to him and he was 
in a fully informed position before making his decision.
Its advice process met all of the regulatory requirements to reach a suitable outcome.
It does not believe Mr C has suffered a loss.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, LWM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Firstly, I understand that LWM is unhappy about Mr Cs complaint and how the focus of it 
has changed to the suitability of the advice he received. It says Mr C did not express an 
issue with the advice in his original complaint about the business in 2020, which the 
Financial Ombudsman Service did not uphold. It says it feels it has been treated unfairly. It 
says the written evidence should be relied on more than Mr Cs version of events which it 
says cannot be relied upon.
I cant comment here on Mr Cs original complaint  that was a separate matter. But just 
because Mr C might not have expressed an issue with the transfer advice in that complaint, 
doesnt mean Mr C cant make a separate complaint about the advice if he now believes 
something went wrong. I dont believe LWM has been treated unfairly - I can assure it that I 
have carefully considered all of the evidence presented by both parties and as I said above, 
Ive placed appropriate weight on the evidence in reaching my decision.
Financial viability 
LWM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB schemes (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.Mr C was 54 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork recorded that he wanted to 
retire at some point between 55 and 60 (he wanted to step back from his business 
gradually), so for comparison purposes a retirement age of 57 was used. I can see Mr C has 
said that his target retirement age was 62-63  but all of the references in the advice 
paperwork refer to 55-60, so I think its likely this was the basis for the discussions and the 
advice provided.
Mr C had two DB pension schemes under consideration as part of the advice. The critical 
yield required to match Mr Cs benefits available under the smaller of the two schemes at 
age 57 was 30.34% if he took a full pension and 25.61% if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. The critical yield required to match the benefits available at the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65 was 9.04% and 7.87% per year respectively. And for the larger 
DB scheme, the critical yields to match Mr Cs benefits at age 57 were 36.2% and 29.42% 
respectively, and for the schemes normal retirement age of 60 they were 17.76% and 
14.8%. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.7% per year for two years to retirement (age 57), 3.1% per year for five years to 
retirement (age 60) and 3.8% for 10 years to retirement (age 65.) Ive kept in mind that the 
regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
moderately aggressive attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there 
would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield of 7.87%, which was based on a retirement age of 65  so 
much later than Mr C intended - I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits available to 
Mr C through his DB scheme was extremely limited as a result of transferring out and 
investing in line with a moderately aggressive attitude to risk. Based on Mr Cs target 
retirement age, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than the DB schemes at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to 
risk. The growth rates here were substantially above both the discount rate and the 
regulators upper projection rate. These were also the growth rates required to effectively 
stand still  to improve on the benefits required returns consistently in excess of this, which 
in my view was unlikely.
I can see that LWM said in its suitability report that the critical yields were much higher than 
actually required because they took into account providing a spouses pension, which wasnt 
relevant to Mr C in his circumstances. And while I accept this, the critical yields also took into 
account the escalating nature of the benefits available under Mr Cs DB scheme. In any 
event, I think they provide a useful indication of the value of the overall benefits provided by 
the DB schemes.
I can see LWM has pointed to its cashflow modelling produced at the time, which was based 
on 2% net of inflation growth (which it deemed was conservative) to age 84 (Mr Cs life 
expectancy at the time). It says that, while this shows Mr C might run out of funds at age 81, 
importantly he wouldve been able to sustain an annual income of £50,000 a year to that 
point from age 57. Notwithstanding the fact that this somewhat undermines the argument 
about Mr C transferring to provide lump sum death benefits for his family, something Ill 
come back to later on, in my view this analysis is fairly basic. It does not for example include 
any stress testing to account for periods of poor performance  a sudden drop in the first 
couple of years  and/or periods of increased inflation. In any event, as LWMs analysis shows, it was possible for Mr C to run out of money during his lifetime, so for these reasons 
Im not persuaded this demonstrates the financial viability of the transfer.
So while I accept Mr C had a relatively high capacity for loss  he had an existing SIPP 
valued at around £275,000 at the time and he had around £200,000 in cash  as LWM itself 
acknowledged in its suitability report, I think Mr Cs DB pensions accounted for a not 
insignificant part of his overall wealth. So Im not persuaded that, solely from a financial 
viability perspective, a transfer out of Mr Cs DB schemes was in his best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason LWM recommended this transfer was for the flexibility it offered 
Mr C. LWM has argued that Mr C couldnt meet his objectives by remaining in his DB 
schemes because they didnt provide him with the flexibility to drawdown income as 
required, allow him to retire at 55 or allow him to have a £50,000 a year retirement income. 
But having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr C needed to transfer his DB pensions to 
his SIPP in order to have flexibility in retirement.
Its evident that Mr C couldnt take his DB pension scheme benefits flexibly. Although he 
could choose to take a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr C had to 
take those benefits at the same time. But Mr C already had an existing SIPP valued at 
around £275,000, ISA investments as well as around £200,000 in cash assets  held 
personally and in his business. So Mr C already had significant assets he could draw on 
flexibly to meet his retirement needs. It was recorded that Mr Cs intention was to step down 
gradually from his business meaning he wouldnt likely need to draw as much income in the 
early years. And in my view, Mr Cs existing flexible assets wouldve allowed him to achieve 
this taking income and/or lump sums to supplement his earned income as and when 
required.
Furthermore it was recorded that Mr Cs intention over the coming years was to continue to 
contribute to his SIPP - around £40,000 each year  as well as invest around £20,000 in 
ISAs. So Mr C was planning to continue to build and increase, quite significantly in my view, 
the value of his existing flexible retirement provision assets. So just because Mr Cs DB 
pensions didnt provide flexibility, I dont think this meant he couldnt achieve his objective of 
wanting to retire early over a phased period and have flexibility around the amount of income 
he could draw. In my view Mr C could use his existing significant flexible assets to support 
his objective allowing him to retain his DB scheme pensions, which he could defer accessing 
until the respective normal retirement ages.
LWM recorded that Mr C wanted to maintain his standard of living in retirement and he 
ideally wanted to target a higher annual income of £50,000. It says Mr C couldnt achieve 
this objective by remaining in his DB schemes. But I dont think that demonstrates that it was 
in Mr Cs best interests to transfer to a personal pension arrangement. 
Firstly I question whether a retirement income of £50,000 a year was realistic over a 
sustained period given Mr Cs available pension assets. And secondly, Im not persuaded 
that Mr C really needed this level of income despite his recorded desire for it. I say this 
because Mr Cs current monthly expenditure recorded by LWM in the fact-find it completed, 
was around £2,200. So it seems that Mr Cs standard of living could be maintained around 
this level  his excess disposable monthly income of around £2,000 appears to be what 
Mr C intended to direct towards the additional savings I referred to earlier on. In my view it would be unusual for someone to need or expect a greater level of income in 
retirement than when they were working  expenditure more likely than not tends to be lower 
overall. Mr C said he could reduce his expenditure if needed and I can see his mortgage 
would be repaid in around 10 years time. So I wouldve expected LWM to have interrogated 
Mr Cs target retirement income and to have questioned whether it was necessary or 
realistic, rather than conclude that a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests because his 
income target couldnt be achieved by him staying in his DB schemes. 
Notwithstanding the above, Ive already said that I think Mr C was unlikely to obtain benefits 
of the same value at retirement if he transferred his funds to a personal pension 
arrangement. So I still think Mr C had a better chance of achieving his target retirement 
income (and certainly a more realistically achievable target retirement income based around 
his existing expenditure) by remaining in his DB schemes - the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated rather than relying on the investment growth in a personal 
pension.
At age 60 Mr C could draw an annual income from the larger of his DB schemes of around 
£3,700 according to LWMs analysis. And at 65, a further amount of just under £2,000 a year 
from his smaller scheme. Mr C was entitled to his state pension at age 67, at which point he 
would have, in my view, a not insignificant guaranteed foundation income of around £15,000 
a year. Mr C couldve then used his SIPP and other savings to top up his income flexibly to 
meet his needs at the time. 
Overall I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to transfer his pensions just to 
have flexibility. I believe Mr C already had flexibility through his SIPP and other savings to 
allow him to achieve his objective. I also think Mr Cs retirement income need could likely be 
met by him retaining his DB schemes. 
Death benefits
LWMs other reason for recommending the transfer was to enable Mr C to pass on his 
remaining pension funds to his children  because he was divorced he had no need for the 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme and he didnt want the value of his pension to 
be lost on death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension arrangement was likely an attractive feature to Mr C in his 
circumstances. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB schemes to his SIPP because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. 
And I dont think LWM explored to what extent Mr C was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for higher or different death benefits.
I accept Mr Cs circumstances meant the spouses pensions provided by the DB schemes 
were not important at this time. But the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension arrangement were dependent on investment performance. As I referred to earlier 
on, LWMs cashflow modelling shows Mr Cs pension fund would be depleted by age 81 
based on the assumptions it used, so there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, 
to pass on when he died. In any event, LWM should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise 
the potential for higher or different death benefits through a personal pension over his 
security in retirement.Furthermore, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think LWM 
shouldve instead properly explored life insurance. Arguably, Mr Cs children already stood to 
inherit a large sum of money  if nothing else Mr C had a property worth around £300,000 at 
the time. But if he wanted an extra sum specifically for his children, he couldve taken extra 
cover out on a whole of life basis and written it in trust for the benefit of his children.
I appreciate that the suitability report mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured of 
the combined pension transfer values at a cost of around £169 a month. This was 
discounted because Mr C didnt see this as an appropriate way to pass on capital and 
because passing his pension on to his children upon his death was a secondary reason for 
transferring. 
To my mind, this suggests to me that greater death benefits wasnt a genuine objective for 
Mr C  instead, it was simply a consequence of transferring his pension. If it was I wouldve 
expected LWM to have explored this option in more detail  for example establishing how 
much Mr C really wanted to leave his children and looking at both whole of life and term 
assurance options  and to have ultimately recommended the cover. As LWM said in the 
suitability report, it was affordable for Mr C.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to Mr Cs existing 
SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher or different death benefits on offer 
through a transfer of Mr Cs DB pensions to his SIPP would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr C. I can also see that LWM says Mr C didnt value his guaranteed DB scheme 
benefits and its provided evidence from its files to support this, including an extract from a 
fact-find in 2007, which says as much. But LWM wasnt there to just transact what Mr C 
might have thought he wanted or seemed like a good idea. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which although individually they might have 
appeared small, combined with Mr Cs state pension wouldve provided a solid guaranteed 
income foundation. By transferring, Mr Cs entire private pension provision was invested in 
at-risk assets when I dont think they needed to be and in my view he was very likely to 
obtain lower overall retirement benefits as a result. I also think there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr C already had the flexibility he 
needed to retire early, or over a phased period as he intended. And the potential for higher 
or different death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB 
schemes.
So, I think LWM shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB schemes.
Of course, I have to consider whether, if things had happened as they should have Mr C 
would've gone ahead anyway against LWM's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully. And having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr C wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the DB schemes, against LWMs advice. I say this because 
although it was recorded that Mr C was an experienced businessman and he had a good 
understanding of investments, crucially its recorded that his investment decisions were 
guided by LWM. So although Mr C might have had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk, Im not 
persuaded this meant Mr C possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to go 
against the advice he was given, particularly in complex pension matters. 
So, if LWM had provided Mr C with clear advice against transferring out of the DB schemes, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, notwithstanding his apparent views on the 
guaranteed benefits through his DB scheme, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I 
think on balance Mr C wouldve accepted that advice, so, I dont think he would have insisted 
on transferring out of the DB schemes.
In light of the above, I think LWM should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely remained in both the occupational pension schemes if suitable advice had been 
given. 
For each scheme, LWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules 
for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement ages of 60 and 65 
respectively.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LWM should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts LWMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, LWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Legacy Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Legacy Wealth Management Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Legacy Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman