DRN-3788457
The complaint
Mr A complains that Motability Operations Limited (MOL) failed to update his address details 
on his cars logbook, in relation to a car that was supplied to him through a Hire Agreement.    
What happened
In September 2017, Mr A entered into a hire agreement with MOL.  
Mr A complained to MOL because he found that there were around 19 penalty charge 
notices (PCNs) sent to his previous address, in relation to the car which he hired in 
September 2017. Mr A said MOL didnt update his address despite him informing them 
about the change in January 2017. 
In July 2021 MOL issued their final response to Mr As complaint. They didnt uphold it. MOL 
explained that they changed Mr As address in January 2017 as requested, so didnt think 
they were responsible for Mr A not knowing about the PCNs.
Unhappy with their decision Mr A brought his complaint to this service for investigation. 
Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said he was satisfied that MOL had 
the correct address when he acquired the car in September 2017 and so didnt ask them to 
do anything in relation to this complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr A said that MOL should have updated the V5 
logbook for his car. MOL confirmed to our investigator that they received an updated V5 
logbook in February 2017, however Mr A remained unhappy with the outcome and asked 
that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Having considered all the information, it seems to me Mr As concerns are centred around 
MOLs responsibility to ensure the address recorded on the V5 document was correct. So, 
Ive focused my decision on this point.
Within their file submission, MOL confirmed that theyd changed Mr As address in January 
2017 when he informed them. This is recorded on their system notes from that time, and Mr 
As address is also showing as correct on the finance agreement that hed taken out. MOL 
also confirmed that they updated the Driver and Vehicle Leasing Agency (DVLA) via the V5 
logbook with Mr As new address. So, from the evidence provided Im satisfied that MOL 
correctly updated Mr As address on their system and with the DVLA at that point.
MOL sent us a screenshot of a log, showing they updated the DVLA with Mr As new 
address in February 2017. However, this was in relation to a previous vehicle hired by Mr A.  
When Mr A entered into the new agreement it was the dealer that registered the new 
vehicle. MOL says the they were told by the dealer that it was a possibility that Mr As 
address was taken from documentation that was supplied to them at the time by Mr A. MOL 
also confirmed that a screenshot of the documentation showed it had Mr As previous 
address on it. 
Due to the time that has passed, the dealer said they werent able to retrieve the registration 
documents for Mr As vehicle, so couldnt confirm for sure which address theyd recorded on 
the V5 logbook. Mr A said when he requested the vehicle in September 2017, he provided a 
document with his previous address on it to the dealer so they could confirm his eligibility for 
a government scheme. Mr A believes the dealer used that document to register his vehicle.
From the information provided, although I can see why Mr A may think this was the dealers 
error, I dont think there is enough evidence to say for certain what happened. Im satisfied 
from the information provided that MOL changed Mr As address and updated their systems, 
so Im not persuaded that they did anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say Mr A and the dealer both had a responsibility to review the information 
being used to register the vehicle, and if this is how the issue occurred, I dont see how MOL 
are responsible for this. In section 19.2 of the hire agreement terms and conditions it states 
that Mr A would be responsible for any claims on the vehicle. arising out of the state 
condition or use of the vehicle, so in any case the PCNs would remain Mr As responsibility 
to settle or appeal as he sees necessary. 
Ive carefully thought about the circumstances here. And I recognise Mr As strength of 
feeling about this. However, for the reasons given Im satisfied MOL have acted fairly in the 
circumstances and so I wont be asking them to do anything in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Motability Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman