DRN-1252914
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. unfairly declined a cancellation claim they made under their travel 
insurance policy following a family bereavement.
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs Ss sister (who Ill refer to as Ms A) booked a holiday on behalf of Mr 
and Mrs S and their family. They were due to depart on 23 April 2019, but sadly Mr Ss sister 
(who Ill refer to as Ms K) passed away on the morning of the 17 April 2019. So Mr and Mrs 
S cancelled their trip.
Ms A had purchased a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre, on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs S on the evening of the 17 April 2019. Mr S submitted a cancellation claim for the costs 
of the holiday (£2,121) under this policy. 
Mapfre declined the claim. It said it had concerns about the timing of the purchase of the 
policy and felt that the need for Mr and Mrs S to cancel their trip was known prior to the 
policy being taken out. 
Mr and Mrs S dont feel this decision is fair. Theyve explained that even though Mrs S was 
made aware that Ms K had passed away on the 17 April 2019, neither Mr S nor Ms A were 
told about her death before the morning of the 18 April 2019. Only Mrs S knew. 
Our investigator considered what had happened and felt that Mapfre had acted fairly in line 
with the terms and conditions of its policy. The investigator thought it was possible Mrs S 
could have spoken to Ms A prior to the policy being purchased. The investigator also noted 
that although Mr and Mrs S hadnt purchased the policy themselves Mrs S had been aware 
of Ms Ks passing at the time it was taken out. The investigator said that although she wasnt 
the main policyholder, she did stand to benefit from the policy.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept our investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly let me start by saying that Im very sorry to hear about the passing of Ms K. I 
appreciate this must have been a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs S and their family. 
I can fully understand Mr and Mrs Ss decision to cancel their holiday and appreciate that as 
a result they have been left out of pocket through no fault of their own. However this doesnt 
automatically mean that it would be fair for me to say that Mapfre must reimburse them for 
the costs of the holiday. I need to decide if Mapfre acted unreasonably when declining the 
claim, taking into account the policy terms and conditions. 
The policy terms and conditions do offer cover for cancellation in the event that a close 
relative passes away. A close relative includes siblings and sisters and brothers-in-law. So 
this clause is applicable to the situation concerning Ms K.
Mapfre has highlighted the following exclusion in its policy when declining Mr and Mrs Ss 
claim:
2. You will not be covered for any claims under section A - Cancellation and cutting short 
your holiday that result directly or indirectly from any medical condition you knew about 
before the policy started and that affects:
 A close relative (see definition on page 14) who is not travelling and is not insured under 
this policy:
The definition of the use of the words you and your in the policy includes Each insured 
person named on the validation certificate issued with this document.  
Mr S has explained that his mother called Mrs S and told her about Ms Ks death on the 
morning of the 17 April 2019. At the time Mr and Mrs S were at a wedding and Mr S was due 
to make the long drive home later that evening. Mrs S agreed not to tell Mr S what had 
happened that day, and he wasnt informed that Ms K had passed away until the following 
morning. Mr and Mrs S have also explained that Ms A, who purchased the travel insurance 
policy on their behalf, was not made aware of events on the 17 April 2019.
Mapfre pointed to some discrepancies in the original timeline of communication described to 
it by Mr and Mrs S and asked if they could obtain copies of their mobile phone call logs to 
verify the timing of these events. Unfortunately their mobile phone provider has advised that 
this isnt possible. 
Ive considered that in the absence of this evidence it is plausible that the timing of events 
couldve happened as Mr and Mrs S have described. But even if this was the case, I dont 
think Mapfre has acted unfairly when it declined this claim.
I say this because both Mr and Mrs S and their children were due to go on the cancelled 
holiday. And Mrs S by her own admission did know that Ms K had passed away at the time 
the travel insurance policy was purchased (22:15 on 17 April 2019)  albeit I accept the 
policy wasnt purchased by herself or Mr S, but rather on their behalf. 
Looking at the insurance policy certificate I can see that although Mr S is listed as the main 
insured person, Mrs S is also named on the certificate as an additional insured person. So 
even if Mr S and Ms A didnt know that Ms K had passed away at the time the policy was 
purchased, Mrs Ss knowledge of the event means that, in the circumstances of this case, I 
think Mapfre has acted fairly when its applied this exclusion and declined to pay their 
cancellation claim.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will likely be very disappointed that Ive reached the same overall 
conclusion as our investigator did here. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not going 
to ask Mapfre to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman