DRN-1739764
The complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance BPF) have incorrectly added late payment markers to his credit file and havent 
refunded him interest whilst he had a dispute with a window installer.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan for £7329.00 with BPF in September 2017 to pay for some windows. 
Mr W said that he was unhappy with the installation of the windows and he raised a claim 
under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act with BPF. Mr W wasnt happy to pay while BPF was 
dealing with this. Mr W said he was told that as long as he made the payments in the month 
they were due then there would be no adverse reporting on his credit file. Mr W accepted a 
price reduction for the poor installation in August 2019 from the installer but he wants BPF to 
refund all the interest on his agreement up to that point.
BPF thought the offer by the installer was reasonable and it offered Mr W £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused by the poor installation. It didnt agree to refund the additional 
interest and it said that the late payment markers reflected the fact that Mr W made late 
payments.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaints and didnt recommend that they were upheld. 
She thought that it was reasonable for BPF to charge interest during the time that the 
dispute was ongoing as this element of the finance agreement wasnt connected to the 
installation of the windows. Our investigator thought that the late payment markers reflected 
Mr Ws payments under the agreement and BPF hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree and said that he was told that as long as he made payments within the 
month that they were due, no negative information would be recorded. Mr W said he has 
been told this on more than one occasion and the investigator should listen to the call 
recordings. He says that it isnt fair that the late payment markers remain when he took the 
advice of the business. Our investigator said the business didnt have a record of the calls 
but even so BPF hadnt done anything wrong. BPF asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W signed up to a fixed sum loan agreement in September 2017. The terms of that 
agreement provided that the repayments would begin once the goods were delivered. It 
wasnt the case that the goods had to be fully installed to Mr Ws satisfaction before he had 
to start paying for them. That said, the goods and the installation had to be satisfactory and 
as they werent Mr W made a claim to BPF as supplier of the finance under s75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. 
S75 provides that as the provider of credit BPF is equally responsible with the retailer if the 
goods are not of satisfactory quality. The substantive s75 complaint has been resolved and I 
dont think I need to say any more about that.
I agree with the investigator that the £100 paid by BPF to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused is fair when taken together with the price reduction. I dont think that the interest on 
the agreement should be refunded as this would make Mr W better off. The outstanding 
balance reflects the money Mr W borrowed and BPF paid to the installer. Mr W has had 
money refunded to him directly from the installer and so if he wanted to save interest, he 
would need to pay that amount to BPF and ask it to re-work the account.   
Mr Ws complaint is that whilst this dispute was ongoing, he was making payments under the 
agreement to BPF under protest. He didnt think he should be making payments for faulty 
installation. BPF did change the contractual repayment date and put the agreement on hold 
briefly but as the dispute continued the contractual repayments became due. Mr W says that 
he called BPF and asked to make payments manually rather than by direct debit. Mr W says 
that he was specifically told that as long as he made repayments in the month that they were 
due, there wouldnt be any adverse recording on his credit file even if those payments were 
late.
Mr W has referred to telephone conversations he had with the business where he says he 
was told that there would be no impact on his credit file. BPF doesnt have the recordings of 
these calls and says that depending upon when the payment is made during the month and 
the date BPF reports information it is possible that a late payment will be reported even if it is 
made within the same calendar month it is due. I dont know what Mr W was told so I have 
looked at the paperwork to see what is fair and reasonable.
Looking at the late payments on Mr Ws account compared with what has been reported it 
seems that this is what has happened. BPF has reported late payments for months in which 
Mr W has made a repayment albeit late. I understand Mr Ws frustration but unless he made 
the contractual payments on the due date, I cant say that BPF has done anything wrong by 
reporting the repayments as late. I appreciate Mr W wasnt happy paying at all and was 
making manual payments under protest but the credit agreement that he signed was clear 
that a failure to make the agreed repayments on time could have consequences for his credit 
file. This wasnt varied because of the dispute with the supplier.
I dont think that the fact that the timing of the reporting by BPF to the credit reference 
agencies should mean that Mr W was able to pay later and BPF couldnt report that as a late 
payment. I dont think that is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. The payments were 
late and the credit file is a fair reflection of Mr Ws operation of the account. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
30 December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman