The Complaint
Mr L complains about the way Barclays Ban k UK PLC (Barclaycard) have handled his 
account following a settlement he ma de to it.  
The Background
Mr L had an accou nt with Barclaycard and state s that he settled the account some years 
ago. Since thi s settlement, Barcl aycard has contacted Mr L regarding a refund to his 
outstanding balance. Mr L is unhappy that he still had a balance with Barclaycard. He is also 
not satisfied with how they calculate d interest on the refund.  Mr L states that his only 
purpo
se is to se ek clarification on the meaning of full and final settlement and getting 
clarification of the situation.  He has stated clearly that he is not seeking financial 
compensation.
Mr L held an account with Barclaycard for some ye ars. During this time, the account went 
into arrears. Mr L offered to make a payment to Barclaycard of £2,400 and thought th at this 
offer was to be a full and final settlement of the account. The payment of £2,400 was 
accepted b y Barclaycard and covered more than 50% of the outstanding balance due to 
Barclaycard.
Four years after his accou nt had been settled, Mr L received communication from 
Barclaycard advising him th at a refund of i nterest, fees and charges would be applied to the 
outstanding balance. This refund was redress that Barclaycard offered customers who had 
been in arrears and we re potentially affected by a lack of engagement. Mr L was unhappy 
that he still had a n outstanding balance as he understood his payment of £2,400 to be a full 
and final settlement of the account. Mr L was also unhappy about the calculation of interest 
applied by Barclaycard.
One of our investig ators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr L asked that his 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman for a final review and decision. 
My Findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided I am not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr L is not pursuing payment of the refund or any other compensation but 
is complaining that his account was not closed when he understood that his payment was in 
full and final settlement of the account. I also note that Mr L h as not accepted any offer of 
compensation from Barclaycard for inconvenience related to his complaint and nor does he 
intend to do so.
DRN-1093717Before going any further, I think its important to explain that while Mr L would like a legal 
opinion on the meaning of full and final settlement, I am not going to give him one here. 
There are other means by which Mr L can get such an opinion. Were an informal dispute 
resolution service where ultimately I am required to take account of all the circumstances of 
the complaint and decide what (if anything) the business has to do to put things right. 
Barclaycard have explained that although the payment of £2,400 by Mr L was accepted in 
full and final settlement, this was not confirmation that there was no outstanding balance 
remaining.   It was an acceptance that Barclaycard would not pursue any further payments 
from him and no interest charges or fees would be applied to the remaining balance. In my 
opinion, Barclaycard made this clear to Mr L in their communication, with a clear indication 
that his balance would not reflect as zero despite the payment of £2,400. I note that 
Barclaycard stated in their communication of 6 November 2015, to Mr L, we have received 
your payment in full and final settlement of your account and we have updated our records to 
reflect this.  Your account is now considered settled and no action will be taken about any 
remaining balance. In the same letter they added, The Credit Reference Agencies will be 
notified that you have partially settled the account.  I am satisfied that Barclaycard acted 
correctly when communicating with Mr L, notifying him that the account would not reflect a 
zero balance. 
In my opinion Barclaycard have been clear in this letter that they accepted Mr Ls full and 
final settlement and that they would take no action about any remaining balance. It is clear to 
me that Mr L partially settled the account and that this was accepted as payment in full and 
final settlement. Its decision to do that didnt mean the debt ceased to exist, it just means 
Barclaycard werent pursuing Mr L for it.
Barclaycard made the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) aware, following an internal review, 
that it did not always meet its expected standards for assessing its customers' 
circumstances or engaging with them, whilst in arrears. Barclaycard, with the FCA, agreed 
that offering compensation was a way of apologising to customers affected. 
The refund offered to Mr L, under this agreement, was in relation to the months, when the 
account was active, that he missed payments and was potentially not notified about the 
arrears. Barclaycard calculated Mr Ls interest and fees for the months it noted it potentially 
hadnt sent arrears notifications. This refund was based on potential lack of communications 
between Barclaycard and Mr L. I am satisfied that this payment was not a confirmation that 
interest had been incorrectly calculated.
Barclaycard have explained that the calculation of the refund was done by spreadsheet and 
took into account the length of time Barclaycard customers had potentially not been kept up 
to date with the way their accounts were run, the charges, fees and interest.  A manual 
calculation showed these charges to be £350 but the spreadsheet was more accurate and 
calculated the refund due to Mr Ls account to be £452.64.
I have noted the arrears balance on the account following the acceptance of Mr Ls payment 
in full and final settlement of the account, as evidenced by Barclaycard. I have also noted 
that the refund was offset against this arrears balance. I do not find it unreasonable that 
Barclaycard did not reflect the account balance as zero, despite the payment made by Mr L. 
In my opinion it was reasonable for Barclaycard to offset the refund against this arrears 
balance.
Mr L had concerns that his account had not been closed despite his full and final settlement.  
I am satisfied from evidence provided by Barclaycard that the account was indeed closed.  
As I have said, I am satisfied that full and final settlement here meant that the account was considered settled and that no action would be taken by the bank regarding any remaining 
balance.  It did not mean that the account would reflect as zero.
In addition to the refund of charges, fees and interest on his account, which was offset 
against his outstanding balance, Mr L was offered a cash compensation from Barclaycard.  I 
am satisfied that Barclaycard offered this compensation as an inconvenience payment.  
Barclaycard offered Mr L a further cash compensation as they had wrongly interpreted what 
he wanted.  They interpreted Mr Ls complaint as being that the refund was applied to his 
outstanding balance and not paid directly to Mr L.  However this was not the case and Mr L 
is not asking for the refund to be paid directly to him.  I accept that this cash offer was for 
wrongly interpreting Mr Ls purpose in his complaint.
Having considered the overall circumstances, I dont think Barclaycard have made a mistake 
in relation to how they have handled the account. It did make an offer of compensation in 
respect of the points noted above. But given Mr Ls comments, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint.
My Final Decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Ron Handley
Ombudsman