DRN-4404120
The complaint
Mr H complains Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined his claim following an 
accident abroad. 
What happened
Mr H held a travel insurance policy underwritten by IPA. He travelled abroad and was 
unfortunately injured in a car accident and taken to hospital. He underwent medical 
treatment, and also missed his return flight home due to the accident. 
After his return to the UK, Mr H made a claim for his expenses including additional travel 
costs to return home. IPA turned down the claim and said this was because Mr H had not 
contacted its assistance team at the time of the incident, and had not submitted a police 
report. 
Mr H complained to IPA and explained the circumstances which he said meant he was 
unable to contact the assistance line, and showed that local police had been contacted but 
hadnt provided a report. 
IPA responded to the complaint and said in the circumstances, it was unreasonable to 
decline the claim. It offered £150 in compensation and said it would re-assess the claim. 
Mr H said he received the compensation payment, but no outcome on the re-assessment of 
his claim, so he asked our service to look into things. And he has shown us most recently on 
21 August, IPA sent him an email attaching its original declination letter again, without any 
explanation. 
The case was passed to me and I thought IPA needed to pay further compensation to Mr H, 
so I issued a provisional decision to both parties. 
My provisional decision
In summary my provisional decision said: 
Mr H provided details of the circumstances which meant he was unable to contact 
the assistance team directly following his car accident. He said he was rushed to 
hospital for treatment of his injuries, didnt have access to email and didnt have any 
of his insurance paperwork, as most of his belongings had been left in the car. IPA 
said the policy terms required the insured to contact the assistance line, but in the 
circumstances of Mr Hs claim, I think its reasonable that he was unable to do this. 
And IPA agreed in its final response, that in this case, it would be unfair to turn down 
the claim for this reason. 
The policy terms also required Mr H to provide a police report to evidence the car 
accident. And IPA gave this as another reason that the claim would not be paid. 
However, Mr H said the local police had been involved, but would not issue a report 
unless he visited the police station in person. IPA said it accepted this, and in the 
circumstances, thought it would be unreasonable to decline the claim for this reason. 
So, in its final response, IPA said it had over-turned its claims decision, and would 
re-assess the claim.  And I agree thats fair. 
IPA accepted it had caused delays in handling the claim between September 2022 
and February 2023. It said Mr H had sent various chaser emails, and that these 
hadnt been responded to, as the business was receiving high volumes of claims. It 
apologised for this and offered £150 in compensation. I think this is a fair reflection 
of the inconvenience caused to Mr H during this period. And I note that IPA has paid 
this amount to Mr H. 
In its final response in April 2023, IPA said it would re-assess Mr Hs claim. However, 
Mr H and IPA have both confirmed that this has not been completed. And Ive seen 
IPA sent an email to Mr H in mid-August 2023, attaching a copy of its earlier 
declination of his claim again. This appears to have been sent in error and caused 
Mr H further concern and confusion, and he contacted this service again to ask what 
he needed to do. 
Around five months have passed since IPA said it would re-assess the claim, and 
Ive not seen any evidence which shows there is any outstanding information 
required from Mr H. So, I think IPA has had sufficient time to re-assess the claim and 
should now settle it as soon as possible. 
In addition, Mr H has been further inconvenienced by the additional delay, lack of 
contact from IPA and the confusing email re-sending the original decline letter. And I 
think I think IPA should pay Mr H a further £150 in compensation due to the 
additional distress and inconvenience this has caused him. 
 The response to my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings. And I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above, as Mr H and IPA 
have both responded to say they accept what Ive said
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to 
do the following:
pay Mr Hs claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and to 
do so within 28 days of this service confirming he has accepted my final decision; 
add interest to the settlement at 8% from the date the claim was first declined, until 
the date of settlement; and 
pay £150 in compensation for the further distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to any compensation Inter Partner Assistance SA has already paid to Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman