DRN-3029299
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. The first 
was taken out in 2000 and the second in 2006 at the time of a further advance.                   
Mr and Mrs E say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes                 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time of the sales as well as the respective PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of the 
sales. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding             
Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr and Mrs E say the PPI policies were included as part of the mortgage packages, but I 
think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take both policies out. I say this because Lloyds has given us the documents 
from both of the sales from which I think Mr and Mrs E would have known the PPI was 
an option on each occasion. 
For the PPI sold in 2000 Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application and under the 
INSURANCE section the Yes box has been ticked to say, I wish to apply for C&G 
Payment Protection Plus cover and completed the relevant proposal form at the back of 
this application form. There was an equally prominent No box that could have been 
ticked if Mr and Mrs E hadnt wanted the PPI. The resulting C&G Payment Protection 
Plus Proposal Form has been completed and signed and dated by Mr and Mrs E. For 
this sale, 100% of the policy cover was for the benefit of Mr E. Mr and Mrs E also 
completed the direct debit mandate in order for the monthly premiums to be taken from 
their bank account. 
Ive also seen the Insurance Fact Find for the further advance taken in 2006 and under 
the PROTECTING YOU AND YOUR MORTGAGE the Yes box has been ticked for a 
quote for the PPI policy. The resulting Payment Protection Plus Proposal Form shows 
that this time the policy benefit was split 75% for Mr E and 25% for Mrs E. So clearly, 
they made a decision about how this policy would have been of most benefit to them. 
Again, as well as completing and signing this form Mr and Mrs E also completed the 
direct debit bank mandate. 
Taking account of all of the above I think it would have been clear to Mr and Mrs E they 
had a choice about taking the PPI on both occasions. If they hadnt wanted the policies, 
there was the opportunity at the time of both sales for them to have declined the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time of the sales, 
shows that the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example, Mr and Mrs E were eligible for the cover provided by the respective policies 
and although they had existing means they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Es employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr E says he had two medical conditions 
some time before the policies were taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to 
have recommended them. I say this because the two conditions Mr E suffered from 
occurred in 1992 and 1993 and were either treated at the time or controlled by 
medication. And Mr E didnt tell us of any ongoing problems or need for any further time 
off from work. So, I dont think either condition would have been uppermost in his mind to 
the extent that he wouldnt have taken the policies if he had been aware of the pre-
existing medical exclusion (which were only excluded during the first 24 months of the 
cover). There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take the policies out  so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs E 
as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like they were affordable  so it seems 
like the PPI would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs E would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs E would have still taken out PPI. I think the policies could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time of the sales. I 
also think the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Es particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman