DRN-2243777
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a guarantor loan TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided to 
her. She says TFS Loans didnt carry out detailed and thorough checks before providing this 
loan to her.
Background
TFS Loans provided Ms S with a guarantor loan of £7,500.00 in August 2014. This loan had 
an APR of 43.9% and was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £275.89. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms S and TFS Loans had told us. And he thought 
TFS Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Ms S complaint be upheld. Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms S complaint.
TFS Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is TFS Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Ms S could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TFS Loans says it agreed to Ms S application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Ms S could 
comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Ms S has said 
she couldnt afford the payments.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms S and TFS Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Ms S first loan with TFS Loans. So there was no 
established history of lending at this stage. The income recorded on the application form 
does appear to be higher than that indicated on Ms S payslips. And TFS has provided a 
record of the credit search information it received which does show defaulted accounts. So 
all of this together with the monthly payment taking up a reasonable proportion of the income 
on Ms S payslips lead me to think that further checks would have been reasonable and 
proportionate before TFS Loans provided this loan to Ms S. 
Ive looked at the bank statements weve been able to obtain on Ms S behalf. Having done 
so, I can see that Ms S total income was less than that recorded during the application. Its 
unclear why Ms S income was recorded incorrectly. But nonetheless even allowing for that, 
Ms S statements from the time do appear to indicate that she still had sufficient disposable 
income to make the monthly repayment to this loan, once her contractual and non-
discretionary commitments were deducted from her actual income at the time. 
Ive also seen that Ms S has said that she had to borrow from elsewhere in order to be able 
to make her loan payments. This may well have happened and Im sorry to hear that Ms S 
might have gone on to experience difficulty making her payments. But the information 
provided doesnt persuade me that TFS Loans ought to have realised that Ms S borrowing 
from elsewhere would be an inevitable consequence of providing her with this loan.
As this is the case, while I dont think that TFS Loans checks before providing this loan did 
go far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out such checks would have shown Ms S had the 
disposable income to make the required payments and that TFS Loans would in any event 
have provided the loan. 
Overall I dont think that TFS Loans treated Ms S unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with her loan. And Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for Ms S  especially as her income was recorded incorrectly. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons why I dont think this would have made a difference here as well as the reasons 
for my decision. And I also hope that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman