DRN-4152095
The complaint
Miss R complains Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) acted irresponsibly when it approved a 
credit card account for her. 
What happened
Miss R says she applied for a credit card account with Sainsburys in 2017 and it shouldnt 
have provided her with such a high credit limit at that time, nor increased the credit limit later 
on. Miss R says Sainsburys should have carried out more checks when the credit card 
account was originally provided and when a subsequent credit limit was approved, as she 
was only making the minimum monthly payments to the account. Miss R says she is 
struggling with the monthly payments and wants Sainsburys to refund all interest and 
charges on her credit card account. 
Sainsburys says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when it approved the 
credit card account and subsequent limit increase to Miss Rs credit card account. 
Sainsburys says Miss R never missed any monthly payments and never declined the credit 
limit increase when it was offered to her. Sainsburys says Miss R has never been in touch to 
suggest she was experiencing financial problems and when it carried out its initial checks 
there was no indication she couldnt afford the credit limit provided.  Sainsburys says Miss 
R, on her application stated she was single, with no dependants and would have had a 
relatively high net disposable income relative to the level of credit provided to her. 
Miss R wasnt happy with Sainsburys response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Miss Rs complaint. The 
investigator felt Sainsburys should have conducted further checks, including sight of her 
bank statements, before providing the credit card account to Miss R, given the high level of 
credit in relation to her earnings. Overall, the investigator felt Sainsburys didnt carry out 
proportionate checks to establish affordability. 
The investigator felt Sainsburys should rework the credit card account removing all interest 
and charges along with 8% simple interest on that sum. Additionally, the investigator felt 
Sainsburys, if an outstanding balance then remained, should put in place a suitable 
repayment plan and once this borrowing has been repaid to remove any adverse information 
from Miss Rs credit file.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it must have been difficult for Miss R when she began to experience 
financial problems and that must have been a cause of worry for her. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Sainsburys acted irresponsibly when it approved the credit card 
account for Miss R and subsequently approved a credit limit increase for her. 
The first thing to say here is when looking at Miss Rs complaint about irresponsible lending, 
its important to establish if Sainsburys carried out what is referred to as reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving the credit card account and any subsequent credit 
limit increase. While theres no set rules as to what checks businesses like Sainsburys must 
carry out when approving credit facilities, its fair to say any credit checks must be 
proportionate to the level of credit provided, the term of the debt, cost of the debt and the 
sustainability of future payments.
Its also fair to say any lender should also consider any other indebtedness of the applicant 
and consider if the applicants net disposable income was stable and sustainable. 
Here, Miss R applied for a credit card account in February 2017 with a promotional 29-month 
interest free purchase offer. From the information provided to this service by Sainsburys it 
shows the checks it undertook at that time showed Miss R declared her income at £14,500 
per annum, had been in employment for ten years and her status was single, with no 
dependants no mortgage and relatively low external debt. Its also worth saying Sainsburys 
carried out its own internal affordability modelling in line with industry practice. Miss R wasnt 
in a position to provide a copy of her own credit report which I understand, so here I have 
relied on the information provided by Sainsburys who confirmed at the time of the 
application in 2017, her report was clear with no recorded issues with any credit reference 
bureaus. 
So based on this Sainsburys offered Miss R a credit limit of £4,500 as its modelling and her 
personal circumstances declared at the time, suggested a low debt to income ratio and a 
strong net disposable income to meet any servicing of this level of debt. 
The investigator felt that given the limit provided to Miss R was relatively high to her income, 
Sainsburys should have carried out further checks including sight of her bank statements to 
confirm her expenditure. While I understand the point the investigator makes here Im not 
fully persuaded that should be the case here as Sainsburys did carry out its usual checks 
and credit searches and internal underwriting, which seemed to show little other 
indebtedness and no indication of any financial pressure  if it had, then at that point it might 
be expected to perhaps take a deeper look into Miss R finances, but that wasnt the case 
here on the face of things.
So, Im left to consider whether or not Sainsburys acted irresponsibly when it provided a 
credit card with a limit of £4,500 here and I cant say it did. Its worth mentioning that this was 
in all intents and purposes similar to offering a 0% interest loan for 29 months and given the 
information I have been presented with, even over that period of time, it wouldnt be 
unreasonable to say Miss R, before her income position changed due to her maternity leave, 
could have sustained that level of repayment. So, with that in mind I cant say, given the 
checks Sainsburys carried out before issuing the credit card, it had to carry out even further 
checks such as bank statements before approving the limit it set. Afterall, theres no 
evidence to suggest Miss R was under external financial pressure or that the sight of bank 
statements would have necessarily changed its view here.  
As far as the increase in the credit limit is concerned from £4,500 to £5,300 this was offered 
to Miss R in December 2019, some two and half years later with a history of no missed 
payments and importantly leading up to the increase, the credit card borrowing had reduced, 
and evidence suggests Miss R had on occasions made payments above the minimum required. That said, Miss R never made use of the limit increase and continued to make her 
monthly payments on time.  Sainsburys following a general post Covid customer review 
then reduced Miss Rs credit limit to £4,600 and shortly after back to £4,500, but this doesnt 
seem to be due to any account issues for Miss R specifically, more a general customer 
review based on the impact of the Covid pandemic generally. 
While I have some sympathy with Miss Rs financial situation here, it does seem to have 
been tied to the time her income changed following her maternity leave and the impact that 
had on her finances, which is understandable. That said I cant hold Sainsburys responsible 
for that, given that wasnt ever made known to them and on balance Im satisfied it carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before it offered the facilities to Miss R when it did, 
for the reasons I have already explained. 
While Miss R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Sainsburys here other than I propose it provides forbearance and support to Miss R and 
looks at her financial position in a sympathetic manner. 
I gave both Miss R and Sainsburys until 18 May 2023 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not received any further comments from either Miss R or Sainsburys, my final 
decision remains the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman