DRN-2464469
The complaint
Mr P complains that Skrill Limited wont refund a disputed transaction made from his 
account. And hed like a refund. 
What happened
Mr P explains that in the early hours of the 15 June 2019 11,000 euros were transferred out 
of his Skrill account to a betting account he has with a provider Ill call A. Mr P says that after 
the funds were transferred into his account with A they were quickly spent or moved on. He 
also explains that the fraudsters hacked into his account with A and spent his existing 
balance of just over 8,000 euros. 
Mr P says on waking up on the morning of the 15 June 2019 he received emails from both 
Skrill and A to notify him of the transactions. He then contacted Skrill and P to let them know 
of the unauthorised access. 
Mr P explains that on the night of the 15 June 2019 he left his laptop at home whilst he 
visited a relative, and he was downloading a seminar therefore the laptop was left open 
without any security. On his laptop he had his username and password for A saved. And 
other files where hed saved his Skrill online access details  including the 2 factor 
authentication codes given to him when he first registered with Skrill  but in an encrypted 
format. 
Mr P complained to Skrill  but they didnt uphold his complaint or refund the money. In 
summary they said:
-To access Mr Ps account someone would need his username, password and two 
factor authentication token.
-Mr Ps previously transferred money from his Skrill account to A. 
Mr P didnt accept Skrills outcome so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ps complaint. And decided to uphold it. In summary 
they thought that it most likely Mr P didnt authorise the disputed transactions and he wasnt 
grossly negligent with his details. They recommended that Skrill refund Mr P 11,000 euros. 
Skrill didnt accept our investigators conclusions, saying:
-Mr Ps Skrill and A accounts were compromised at the same time.
-None of Mr Ps credentials were changed prior to the incident.
-Mr Ps security details must have been compromised outside of his Skrill account.
As Skrill didnt accept our investigators outcome it was passed to me for a decision. On 
reviewing the evidence I reached a different conclusion to our investigator. In summary I 
explained that I thought it more likely than not that Mr P authorised the disputed transaction. 
I issued my provisional decision on the 16 November 2020 to both Skrill and Mr P and gave 
them until the 1 December 2020 to provide further evidence. Skrill havent responded but 
Mr P didnt accept my conclusions. I havent listed everything Mr P stated in its entirety, just 
what I believe is most relevant to the complaint. In summary he said:
Hed never claimed to have only deposited small amounts in his account with A. 
Hes never deposited a five figure sum at once  and this is not consistent with his 
previous spending. 
Theres a number of reasons why the fraudster might have transferred the money 
from Skrill to A including they were working with someone from A so moving the 
money through A made it easier for them. They managed to obtain his credentials for 
A first  and his security details are the same for both accounts. If a gambler gained 
access to the money they might decide to gamble the funds, and lastly it could have 
been a client of his  through his role working at a Casino  who carried out the fraud 
as a form of revenge because theyd previously lost lots of money.
 
Theres lots of different ways that a fraudster could have obtained both his 
credentials for Skrill and A. Including clone sites for A and software which allows 
access to an individuals computer or to identify their passwords. Or potentially the 
fraudster could have known someone who allowed them access to his office. 
The only credentials needed to gain access to Mr Ps Skrill account were his 
password and email address  not the two factor authentication which has been 
mentioned. 
Skrill should have blocked access to his account when the 11,000 euros was 
attempted, in particular because the transaction was carried out from Germany. 
Because Mr P didnt accept my findings, Ive reviewed my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the outcome I reached from my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Generally, Skrill can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ps genuine online account details 
were used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Skrill to hold him liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P consented to the 
transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Skrill to conclude that Mr P 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-To carry out the disputed transaction a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr Ps Skrill account. To access Mr Ps account they need his username, password 
and access to the two factor authentication app. Mr P explained that the app was downloaded on both his personal and work mobile phones, one which was in his 
possession at the time and the other at his work. But he explained theres no 
evidence anyone gained access to his work or work phone. Mr P says that his 
password and other details were saved on his laptop at home  in an encrypted 
format  and where hed also saved a number of the two factor authentication codes 
which he says were given to him as back up when he first registered with Skrill. So 
he argues that a fraudster wouldnt have needed access to his phone or the app. 
Even if I accept that the two factor authentication codes were stored on his computer, 
which Skrill dispute, Mr Ps proposed that his computer was hacked into to gain all 
of his security details  but hes not provided any evidence to indicate how he thinks 
this occurred or any details of suspicious emails or phone calls he received prior to 
the disputed transaction. So for this reason I find this explanation unlikely. 
-Mr Ps explained that although hes transferred money to A before, its never been as 
large as 11,000 euros and the most hes previously transferred was 4,000 euros. But 
I can see regular large payments from February 2019, with a total of 8,500 euros 
being sent to A on the 20 April 2019. Therefore I dont think this activity is unusual for 
Mr P. I also notice that Mr P transferred 8,000 euros in from A just over 2 weeks prior 
to the disputed transaction. 
-I find the account activity unusual. I think its strange that once the fraudster gained 
access to Mr Ps online banking they transferred funds to his account with A rather 
than just moving them on to a separate account. Both because there seems limited 
benefit for a fraudster in doing this and secondly theyd also need to gain access to 
Mr Ps account with A  which includes a username and password  to either spend 
or move the funds on. 
Our investigator highlighted a number of points Ive considered in my decision  including 
the fact that the IP address where the transactions occurred was in Germany and a new 
device was used to access Mr Ps Skrill account to carry out the disputed transaction. But, 
this doesnt change some of the factors I find unusual in this case  including Mr Ps regular 
transfers of a similar size to A, and the amount of security information a fraudster would 
need to access both Mr Ps Skrill account and his account with A. For these reasons I think 
on balance Mr P authorised the disputed transaction. I realise this will be disappointing to 
Mr P but Im currently not thinking of asking Skrill to do anything further here. 
Mr P responded to my provisional decision with a number of additional points. Ill address 
them below. 
Hes never deposited a five figure sum at once  this isnt consistent with his previous 
spending. And Skrill should have blocked the transaction, especially as it was carried out 
from Germany. 
Im afraid I dont agree with Mr P here. I agree that the transaction taking place from 
Germany is unusual. But, I wouldnt expect Skrill to necessarily identify this transaction as 
suspicious based solely on this. I accept that the money deposited on the 15 June 2019 was 
higher than his previous spend. However, its clear that Mr P has used this merchant a 
number of times in the past. And, hes deposited large amounts - including a total of 
8,500 euros on the 20 April 2019.Therefore Im satisfied that the account activity isnt 
unusual. 
Mr Ps provided a number of different explanations for why a fraudster might have 
transferred money from his Skrill account to A: I accept that its possible one of Mr Ps explanations might be correct. However, on balance I 
still think that this isnt what I expect a fraudster to do in the circumstances, for the reasons 
Ive already outlined. And Mr Ps proposals dont change my overall position on how Id 
expect a fraudster to behave in these circumstances. 
Access to his account with Skrill and A could be achieved by a number of routes:
Ive considered Mr Ps argument here. Hes provided a number of different proposals for how 
his account details for both Skrill and A could have been compromised. These include clone 
sites, software which could have been hacked to allow access to an individuals computer 
and software which records passwords. I agree that Mr Ps proposals are possible  
however Ive not seen any evidence to support these suggestions. And Mr P hasnt 
demonstrated that this any of this software was stored on his laptop or breached. Without 
evidence to support this, its not possible for me to conclude on balance these explanations 
are what likely happened. Ive also considered that to access Mr Ps Skrill account a two 
figure authentication code is needed  which I dont think Mr P has provided a satisfactory 
explanation for.  
I realise this will be very disappointing to Mr P, but on balance Im satisfied that he 
authorised the disputed transaction. And it follows Skrill are entitled to hold him liable for it.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman