DRN-2927473
The complaint
 Mr S complains that One Call Insurance Services Ltd (One Call) mis-sold him a property 
insurance policy which excluded cover for flooding.   
He also complains that the insurer was dismissive and hard to deal with. 
What happened
Mr S bought buildings and contents insurance on 7 January 2020 through One Call via a 
comparison website. One Call were the brokers for the policy, not the underwriters.  The 
policy came into effect on 25 January 2020. 
On 28 February 2020 Mr Ss house was flooded and all of the downstairs of the property 
was damaged. As it was a Friday night, Mr S immediately contacted One Call on their 
emergency line and was told to find emergency accommodation over the weekend as it 
would be covered for six months. He was told to call back on Monday. Mr S booked his 
family into a hotel. 
When Mr S phoned One Call on Monday 2 March 2020, he was told that he was not covered 
for flood damage. One Call said that the policy included a flood endorsement clause which 
excluded him from any flood cover.   
Mr S complained to the underwriters that he had not been made aware of this exclusion, but 
the complaint was passed back to One Call as they were responsible for selling the policy. 
Mr S instructed representatives. They argued that the flood endorsement is a significant 
restriction in cover, and it should always be highlighted to a potential buyer. They said it was 
not enough to send an e mail asking the purchaser to review the policy, and that this failure 
to highlight the restriction led to significant financial loss for Mr S. 
Mr S also said that he was not sent a Statement of Need after he bought the policy and he 
didnt receive any physical post about his insurance, only e mails. 
In their final response dated 12 March 2020, One Call rejected Mr Ss complaint. They said 
that during the online purchase of the policy through the comparison website, Mr S was 
given the opportunity to review the policy documents and verify the terms and conditions. He 
was also presented with a list of endorsements including the flood exclusion clause. They 
have provided an example screen shot of what Mr S would have seen during the purchase, 
which includes the endorsement.
 
One Call also said that the insurance documentation was issued to the online portal. Mr S 
accessed the online portal on 8 January 2020. The portal included a welcome letter which 
was also sent by post and which asked Mr S to review the policy including any 
endorsements. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ss complaint but has not upheld it. She thought 
that One Call had done enough to bring the exclusions to the attention of Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
What I have to consider here is whether this policy has been mis sold to Mr S. In other 
words, was the policy that was sold to Mr S suitable his needs, giving him the cover that he 
wanted. Its acceptable for the policy to have exclusions and restrictions on the cover, 
provided that Mr S was made aware of those exclusions and was not in any way misled 
about the cover he was purchasing either directly, or because important information about 
that cover was not made clear to him. 
Mr S said, through his representatives, that this cover was not suitable as he would have 
wanted full cover, including flood, and the flood exclusion was not clearly pointed out to him. 
I have reviewed all the information which was available to Mr S, including what he would 
have seen during the online purchase of the policy, and what was available to him on the 
portal.  
The online sale process
Ive looked at the online sale process that Mr S went through. The welcome letter which was 
later provided says that any endorsements will have been disclosed during the online 
journey.
However, One Call are not able to provide us with the actual screens seen by Mr S as they 
have advised that the data concerning what Mr S viewed and clicked on during the online 
journey is only held for 30 days and is no longer available. 
They have therefore provided us with an example screen shot from the online process which 
they say Mr S would have seen during the purchase. The screenshot shows a box entitled 
Endorsements and lists all 11 endorsements which would have been on Mr Ss policy and 
within that list, 011 Flood Exclusion Clause is listed as one of the endorsements. At the top 
of the box it says for full endorsement wording, please refer to the insurers endorsement 
booklet below, One Call have told us that this box is one section of a bigger screen page, 
which contains an overview of the policy, excess, property details etc. 
Ive thought about whether the way in which the flood exclusion clause is listed on this page 
is prominent enough to warn Mr S of this significant exclusion, and I dont think that it is. 
Firstly, I note that there is no evidence of what Mr S actually saw, as One Call can no longer 
provide this. There is also no evidence of whether he clicked through to the endorsement 
booklet from that main page.      
If I accept One Calls account of the how the endorsements would have appeared on the 
screen, it seems that the flood exclusion clause was in a list of other endorsements at the 
bottom left hand side of a page. That page also had a lot of other information on it, and I 
dont think that the way in which the flood exclusion was displayed sufficiently drew Mr Ss 
attention to what is a significant exclusion against one of the main perils.
Additionally, One Call say that below this list of endorsements is another section saying
Important Note  Please note:If your property has:
Previously flooded
Suffered subsidence
Flood and Subsidence cover will be excluded from your policy.
If you require this cover please call us on xxxxx xxxxxx
So, Im not persuaded that One Call can say that the endorsement was drawn to Mr Ss 
attention during the online journey. I think that the above would lead a policyholder to 
understand that if their property hadnt previously been flooded or suffered from subsidence 
the exclusion wouldnt apply. 
Documents sent to Mr S
Ive then considered the welcome letter that was sent to Mr S which also contains the 
Statement of Needs. Although Mr S says he did not receive this through the post, it was on 
the portal and he did access the portal, so I think he had a fair opportunity to see it. 
The relevant part of the welcome letter says:
Significant Warranties, Exclusions and Endorsements.
Your main policy may have significant warranties or endorsements. These will have been 
discussed with you already over the phone if you contacted our call centre to incept your 
policy or these will have been disclosed to you via the online journey. 
Please refer to your policy schedule for any applicable endorsements that apply to your 
policy as a reminder of how your policy works and what you need to comply with.
I dont think that this letter is explicit enough in highlighting such a restrictive term as a flood 
exclusion. The seller of an insurance policy needs to make significant, onerous and 
restrictive terms clear. The more significant or onerous, the more I would expect them to do 
to make the policy purchaser aware of the term or condition.
Flood is one of the major perils that can cause a significant claim and disruption to a 
policyholder. I think that the exclusion of such a significant term that it should be specifically 
pointed out or highlighted to a purchaser. 
The policy schedule referred to in the welcome letter was also on the portal which Mr S 
accessed. On page 5, the policy schedule lists 11 endorsements, of which the flood 
exclusion clause is listed last but one. In the Policy Detail section at page 6, the clause is 
written out in full. It says:
Endorsement 011  FLOOD EXCLUSION CLAUSE
It is hereby agreed that section one (Buildings) and section two (contents) of this insurance 
do not cover:
A) The escape of water from the normal confines of any natural or artificial watercourse, 
lake, reservoir, canal or dam;
B) Inundation from the sea; orC) Flood resulting from storm or tempest or any other peril other than escape of water 
from fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes. 
Although I think this exclusion itself is clear and explicit, I do think that it is buried in the detail 
at the end of the policy schedule, and I think that this makes it all the more important that 
One Call should have drawn Mr Ss attention specifically to it.
Im not persuaded that they have sufficiently done this in the covering correspondence. 
How would Mr S have acted if he had been made aware
I also need to consider whether Mr S would have acted differently if he had been made 
aware of the flood exclusion. Mr Ss representatives have said that had Mr S been made 
aware of the exclusion, he would have sought cover elsewhere. The property had never 
flooded and it was not in a flood risk area as far as he knew, so Mr S would have no reason 
to suspect that it might be an exclusion to normal cover. 
Mr S has also provided me with his previous years policy which included flood cover, and 
has confirmed that the only reason he moved insurers was because he had purchased a 
valuable item which he needed cover for.
The new policy cost substantially more than the previous year, so there was no financial 
benefit to Mr S in taking a policy with a different provider, and it supports Mr Ss expectation 
that he was getting a full level of cover. 
In view of this, I am satisfied that Mr S would not have taken out this policy if he had known 
that flood cover was excluded. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Ss, and I invited the parties to 
comment. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr S and One Call a copy of my provisional decision. Mr S has replied through his 
representatives that he has nothing further to add. One Call have also responded and have 
nothing further to add, so Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised 
above. 
My final decision
 One Call Insurance Services Limited should put Mr S in the position he would have been in 
had the flood cover not been excluded. They should pay the cost of any temporary 
accommodation that Mr S incurred between 28 February 2020 and the date he returned to 
his home. Mr S will need to provide receipts in evidence of this. They should also pay 8% 
interest on these payments from the date that they were made to the date of settlement. 
One Call Insurance Services Limited should reimburse Mr S for the cost of the repairs 
already undertaken. Mr S will need to provide receipts and invoices to evidence this work. In 
addition, they should pay 8% simple interest on any payments from the dates they were 
made until the date of settlement. In respect of the remaining outstanding repairs and flood damaged items, I direct One Call 
Insurance Services Limited to instruct an independent loss adjuster to prepare a report. The 
report should itemise any remaining damage caused to both contents and buildings which 
would have been covered if flood cover had not been excluded from the policy. This report 
will need also need to include an accurate estimate of the repair and replacement costs. One 
Call should meet these costs, up to the limit of his policy without the flood exclusion. They 
will be entitled to deduct the excess that would have been payable from the settlement. 
Finally, One Call Insurance Services should pay £150 to Mr S in respect of the incorrect 
advice given to him on Friday 28 February 2020 regarding his cover, which when corrected 
on Monday 2 March, caused him further distress. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman