DRN-2757952
The complaint
Mr S complains that Insurance Factory Ltd cancelled his motor insurance policy when it said 
it didnt receive his signed proposal form.
 
What happened
Insurance Factory sent Mr S a proposal form which it asked him to sign and return. It didnt 
receive this and so it sent Mr S a notice of cancellation. Mr S said he returned the signed 
form to Insurance Factory before the cancellation date. He said hed sent the form to the 
email address of an adviser who was assisting him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S 
hadnt sent the form to the required address and so Insurance Factory didnt receive it in 
time. He thought Mr S had sent the form to an email address given to ask for feedback on 
his conversation with the adviser two weeks earlier. So this wasnt picked up. He thought 
Insurance Factory had dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly.
Mr S replied that he had followed the advisors instructions to get the proposal form to the 
broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The problem arose when Mr S took out a policy through Insurance Factory and paid his full 
years premium. He wanted to correct details about his car on the policy schedule. I can 
understand that Mr S wanted to ensure that his insurance details were correct. He said he 
tried to do this without success for months and then spoke to an advisor after he was 
threatened with cancellation. She took down the changes he wanted made and then sent 
him a further proposal form to be signed and returned within 14 days. 
I can see that the advisor asked Mr S to send the form to her and to the required address 
that day and she would update the file. But Mr S said he was called away on business and 
didnt send the email until 12 days later. 
Mr S said he sent the form back. But Insurance Factory said this wasnt picked up in time as 
Mr S sent the form to an incorrect address. Ive seen the email Mr S sent. Its addressed 
directly to the advisor and was sent 12 days after their conversation, and so within the 
required time limit. 
But Mr S replied to a feedback request and so the subject line of the email is Feedback. 
Theres no indication that the email contained important information. And, after two weeks, I 
wouldnt expect the advisor to be looking out for it. She was expecting Mr S to respond on 
the same day they had spoken. And then he didnt send the email in to the required address 
as well as the advisor. 
Mr S said the email from the advisor with the amended proposal form didnt provide 
instructions on how to return his form. But I can see that the email sent by the advisor with 
the proposal form contains clear instructions on how Mr S should return the proposal form by 
email and post. But Mr S didnt follow these instructions. Mr S said he was frustrated that 
Insurance Factory hadnt updated the proposal form previously and he thought he was 
replying to the helpful advisor. 
Insurance Factory sent a further notice of cancellation giving seven days notice. I can also 
see from its records that it tried to call Mr S, but without success. Nothing further was 
received, and so the policy cancelled. And I can see that a notification was sent to Mr S. 
However, Mr S said he was threatened with court action for driving whilst uninsured.
I can sympathise with Mr Ss situation. But I cant say that Insurance Factory acted 
incorrectly in cancelling the policy at the insurers instruction. The insurer wanted 
confirmation in the signed and dated proposal form about the cars specification and 
modifications. I think Insurance Factory gave Mr S clear instructions on how to send this. 
Unfortunately, Mr S didnt follow these instructions and so the form wasnt acted upon and 
the policy cancelled in keeping with the notifications.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman