DRN-2945653
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.  
What happened
Mr Y was given a single loan by ELL. He borrowed £1,500 in October 2017 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr Y told ELL that he wanted to use the loan to 
consolidate some payday loans he had outstanding. Mr Y repaid the loan in December 2019.
Mr Ys complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the checks 
ELL had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. But she thought the results 
of the checks should have led the lender to conclude that it was unlikely Mr Y could afford to 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So she didnt think the loan should have been 
agreed and she asked ELL to pay Mr Y some compensation.
ELL didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr Y accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ys complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr Y required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr Y. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr Y undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr Y. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr Y.
ELL gathered some information from Mr Y before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal housing costs. It then used some industry statistical data to 
estimate the remainder of Mr Ys expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how hed managed credit in the past. And it asked 
Mr Y for copies of his bank statements and payslips so it could verify some of the information 
hed provided.
Mr Y was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that ELL wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ys financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think ELLs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.
Mr Y told ELL that he wanted to use the borrowing to consolidate some payday loans that 
hed recently taken. ELL saw those loans on its credit check. But the credit check also 
showed that Mr Y was making extensive use of other credit facilities at the same time  his 
payday loans only formed a very small part of his overall indebtedness. So I think ELL 
should have been put on notice that Mr Y might be facing problems managing his finances 
and performed some more detailed investigations into his use of credit.
I cannot be sure what those additional checks would have uncovered. But Mr Y has sent us 
a more recent copy of his credit file that allows me to see what was happening with his 
finances shortly before he asked to borrow from ELL.
In the month before asking to borrow from ELL Mr Y had taken, and still had outstanding, at 
least six other unsecured loans  not just the three loans hed said he wanted to consolidate. 
And Mr Y also had three credit card accounts open. Each of those accounts were at, or just 
below, the agreed limits. The limit on one account had recently been increased by more than 
25%. Another was a new account that had rapidly reached its £3,800 limit in the month after 
it had been opened. And the third had shown an increasing balance of over £8,000 for almost a year. Mr Y had also increased the overdraft on his current account by more than 
£2,000 in the past few months.
I think that the extent, and recent proximity, of Mr Ys borrowing clearly showed that he was 
facing significant problems managing his finances. I appreciate that he said the loan from 
ELL would be used to consolidate some of his debts  and I think it was entirely reasonable 
for ELL to rely on what he had said. But the loan from ELL would only consolidate a small 
part of Mr Ys total indebtedness. I dont think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude its loan 
would assist Mr Y to get his finances back on track.
So, in summary, I think the results of ELL checks should have led it to conclude that it might 
not have a full picture of Mr Ys finances. And had it gained that full picture I think it would 
have been clear to ELL that Mr Y was facing significant problems managing his finances and 
that any further borrowing would likely be unsustainable. So I dont think ELL should have 
given this loan to Mr Y, and it needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
I dont think ELL should have agreed to lend to Mr Y in October 2017. So ELL should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr Y paid on the loan.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ys credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr Y 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ys complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman