DRN-3534700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) hasnt 
reimbursed them in full after they were victims of a scam.
What happened
Around March 2021 it appears Mr P was the victim of a phishing email where he was 
tricked into providing his personal details and other information to scammers. Shortly after 
this he was contacted by a scammer using a cloned number claiming to be a Virgin Money 
employee, where Mr P held a joint account with Mrs P. 
Scammers told Mr P they were conducting an internal investigation and he needed to 
transfer Mr and Mrs Ps money to an account with another bank while they investigated. 
During this call Mr P gave the scammers his card payment details which they used to make 
a card payment of £4,964.85 from Mr and Mrs Ps account (this amount was later recovered 
and returned to them).
Mr P transferred £19,800 to the scammers. The scammers then told Mr P a second payment 
of £10,000 needed to be made and Mr P attempted this but it was blocked by Virgin Money. 
This prompted Virgin Money to place further restrictions on the account due to fraud 
concerns which in turn prompted contact with Mr P at which point the scam was uncovered.
Mr and Mrs P felt their loss had come about as a result of Virgin Money not having adequate 
security in place. So they felt it should be liable for their loss. Virgin Money disagreed and 
felt it met its obligations in this case. It had contacted the beneficiarys bank as soon as the 
scam was reported and had been able to recover £13.19 of the money Mr P transferred 
which was returned to Mr and Mrs Ps account.
Mr and Mrs P brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. They 
felt Virgin Money had acted reasonably in the circumstances. As Mr and Mrs P didnt accept 
this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Virgin Money have done more to stop the payment being made?
Theres no dispute the payment of £19,800 Mr P made to the scammers was authorised 
even though he was the victim of a scam. The payment was made by Mr P who had 
authority to make payments from the joint account and under the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSRs), and the terms and conditions of its account, Mr and Mrs P are liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
But, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied Virgin Money does have sufficient measures in place to spot and intervene with 
unusual transactions. This is apparent because the second payment Mr P tried to make to 
scammers, for £10,000, was stopped by the bank while it carried out further checks. And 
these checks ultimately led to the scam being uncovered and prevented a loss beyond the 
£19,800 Mr P had already sent.
But, I also need to consider whether I think Virgin Money ought reasonably to have 
intervened when Mr P made the first payment to scammers. And overall I dont think it did.
The payment Mr P made to scammers was already authenticated by personal information he 
had a responsibility to keep safe and secure. So as a starting point Im satisfied Virgin 
Money was correct in following his payment instruction. But Ive thought about whether I 
think this payment ought reasonably to have appeared significantly unusual enough that 
Virgin Money ought to have identified it as potentially fraudulent.
In the six months leading up to the payment made to scammers, Mr and Mrs P made regular 
payments in the thousands to various different payees and other accounts. Within days of 
the payment to the scammer one transaction of over £20,000 and another of over £150,000 
left their account, neither of which are in dispute. So I dont think the value of the transaction, 
compared to the recent, general use of the account was so out of character it ought to have 
prompted intervention. And I wouldnt expect a bank to stop every payment slightly larger 
than usual. It has to strike a balance in monitoring accounts and preventing fraud with not 
unduly hindering a customers general use of their account.
Although the payment of £19,800 was to a new payee, I dont consider this alone is 
something that indicates someone is the victim of fraud. Payments are made to new payees 
from time to time, this is often part of the regular use of someones account.
I can see it had concerns when Mr P tried to make a second payment to scammers on the 
same day and as Ive said I think this is reasonable. But up until this point I dont think there 
was anything so unusual or so out of character Virgin Money ought to have intervened. I 
understand Mr and Mrs P disagree with this point, but Im satisfied Virgin Money acted 
reasonably in intervening when it did.
As I dont think Virgin Money missed an opportunity to prevent the payment of £19,800 being 
made to scammers its not liable for this loss.Mr and Mrs P have raised many points throughout their complaint questioning the general 
security measures Virgin Money had in place when Mr P made the payment he did. They 
feel we should carry out specific enquiries and investigations into the banks conduct. The 
suggestion is that they feel this scam, and the information that led them to move their money 
and provide their card details to scammers has somehow been obtained by a breach in 
Virgin Moneys security or because information has been stolen by their staff members. 
Theyve also suggested that a recent increase in the information and warnings provided 
around fraud and scams is evidence that sufficient measures werent in place when they 
made their payments to scammers.
I want to reassure them I have considered all of their submissions very carefully but I wont 
be responding to each individual point. This is not intended as a discourtesy but reflects the 
informal nature of our service. What Ive outlined in this decision is that Im satisfied overall 
Virgin Money had sufficient security measures to fulfil its obligations to Mr and Mrs P in this 
case. 
Its often not possible to know exactly how scammers obtain personal information. This is 
often through techniques such as phishing emails or calls where they trick individuals into 
providing information. Given Mr P described strange calls regarding his bank account and 
given it seems he provided a significant amount of personal information, including card 
payment details, to scammers during these calls I think this is likely where the scammers 
obtained enough information to successfully scam him. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest this has come about as a result of any security failings on the part of Virgin Money. 
It also might be helpful if I explain that whilst Virgin Money certainly does have some 
obligation to protect its customers as best it can, it isnt its sole responsibility. Mr and Mrs P 
also have a responsibility to protect their money and payment information.
Did Virgin Money act as I wouldve expected in trying to recall the funds?
When the scam was reported to Virgin Money, whilst not liable for the loss, it is expected to 
do what it can to contact the beneficiarys bank and ask for the payment to be returned as 
its been obtained fraudulently. Where the beneficiary bank responds and is able to return 
any money, Virgin Money should return this to its customer.
In this case, Virgin Money contacted the beneficiary bank as soon as it had spoken to Mr P 
about the scam. Ive seen the beneficiary bank confirmed only £13.19 could be recovered 
and Virgin Money has acted reasonably in relying on this response from the beneficiarys 
bank and accepting this. Virgin Money returned £13.19 to Mr and Mrs Ps account as Id 
expect. 
Mr P originally informed our service he was told this amount was £90, but has since 
confirmed it was only ever £13.19 which Virgin Money has also confirmed. As it returned 
everything that it could get back for Mr and Mrs P, its fulfilled its obligations to them 
regarding this point.
Mr and Mrs P also appear to have given their complete card payment details to the 
scammers whilst speaking to them which allowed the scammers to make one successful 
debit card payment of £4,964.85. They attempted two further payments, both of which were 
again blocked by Virgin Money as they were recognised as unusual.
When Mr P reported theyd been the victims of fraud, he explained hed handed over his 
complete card details and the payment hadnt been made by him. As it wasnt made by him 
or Mrs P and was made without their consent, this payment was unauthorised under the PSRs. Because it was unauthorised, Virgin Money refunded this amount to him. Its acted 
more than reasonably in doing this.
Mr and Mrs P have raised with our service that another, unexplained, credit of £4,850 was 
made to their account and wanted to know more about how this came about. They felt Virgin 
Money hadnt explained why it had only been able to recover part of their loss. After this was 
highlighted to Virgin Money, it has explained that the actual amount refunded was £4,964.85, 
not £4,850 as Mr and Mrs P had said. And this is relevant because it was actually a 
duplicate refund of the card payment that had already been refunded to them.
As theyd been credited a second amount they werent entitled to receive, Virgin Money has 
confirmed it will be seeking to recover this payment from them which it is entitled to do. 
When recovering these funds from Mr and Mrs P Virgin Money should take into account their 
financial circumstances and agree a suitable rate of repayment. 
Mr and Mrs P have suggested this double refund indicates it hasnt been explained to them 
why Virgin Money have only been able to provide a partial refund. Hopefully this has now 
been set out clearly. But for clarity, Virgin Money was able to recover £13.19 of the money 
Mr P transferred to the scammers (the payment he authorised) which has been correctly 
returned to them. It hasnt held them liable for the £4,964.85 card payment they didnt 
authorise which has also been returned to them. Im satisfied Virgin Money isnt responsible 
for the transfer Mr P made to scammers for the reasons given, so it doesnt need to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs P for this loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman