DRN-4425302
The complaint
Mr U complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial 
Services (VWFS) provided him with a car that he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr U entered into a 48 month car finance agreement for a used car. The cars 
cash price was £75,000. It was over two years old and it had travelled around 10,800 miles. 
Mr U was required to pay monthly instalments of around £670.
Within days of acquiring the car, Mr U complained the arm rest was faulty and there was 
condensation in the rear light unit. The dealership said they werent able to find the faults 
reported. 
Thereafter, Mr U reported a number of other issues with the car. I wont list them all but in 
summary, he said:
- An ongoing issue with condensation in the rear light unit;
- Issues with the electrics;
- Engine management lights coming on;
- Faulty parking sensors;
- Issues with the suspension.
Repairs were carried out by the dealership in December 2022, February 2023 and March 
2023. This included repairs to the rear unit, suspension, chassis system compressor and 
parking sensor. Mr U complained he didnt feel safe driving the car and he believes its 
dangerous to do so, he wants to reject it. 
In summary, VWFS said all faults identified had been repaired under warranty and a 
courtesy car provided. They said if Mr U wanted to reject the car he would need to speak to 
the dealership directly. VWFS determined the impacted period of faults started in June 2022 
and lasted around nine months so they agreed to refund 20% of the monthly instalments for 
that time period. They also agreed to pay £200 compensation to Mr U for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply but the repairs had fixed the faults. 
She believed VWFS offer was fair and enough to put things right.  
Mr U disagreed and maintained his position. He commented there had been faults with the 
electrics on two occasions which hadnt been addressed. He said given the events so far, he 
has lost trust in the car and believes its dangerous to drive. He also said he hadnt received 
any documents or job cards regarding the repairs carried out by the dealership. He doesnt 
believe VWFS offer was enough. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided VWFS has done enough to put things right. I will explain why.
 
Mr U acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. VWFS was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc.
In this case, Mr U acquired a car that was over two years old and had travelled over 10,800 
miles. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car 
might have already suffered some wear and tear. However in this case, I consider the cars 
age and mileage to be relatively low so Ive taken this into account when considering this 
case. 
Based on the evidence presented to me, theres no dispute there were faults with the car. 
This includes faults with the parking sensor, rear light unit and suspension which required 
repairs. There is insufficient evidence of a fault to the arm rest. Given the age and mileage of 
the car, I dont find the car was reasonably durable, meaning it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at supply. As both parties accept the same, like the investigator I dont find its necessary for 
me to provide any further comment about this. What is left for me to decide is whether in 
light of this, VWFS has done enough to put things right. Having done so, I believe they have. 
The CRA says a consumer has 30 days to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory quality (a 
breach of contract). In this case, theres insufficient evidence Mr U requested to reject the 
car during that time period, it appears he wanted the car to be repaired. The CRA also says 
where there has been a breach of contract, the financial firm has one opportunity to put 
things right. In this case, I can see thats what happened, repairs were carried out by the 
dealership. I would expect these repairs to be at no cost to the consumer. I note Mr Us 
comments that initially he was told he would have to pay for some of the repairs but from my 
understanding these were eventually carried out under warranty at no cost to him. 
I recognise there were a number of faults over a period of several months which I dont 
believe a reasonable person would expect to experience for a car of its price, age and 
mileage. However I find theres no indication nor evidence the repairs failed. In the absence 
of any contradictory evidence, I find the repairs fixed the identified faults. I acknowledge Mr 
Us comments that there were issues related to the electrics. However from my 
understanding this happened some time ago and since then a number of repairs have been 
carried out without any further reported issue with the electrics which would suggest the 
repairs resolved the problem. 
So although I appreciate Mr Us strength of feeling about the matter and how he has lost 
confidence in the car, there is insufficient evidence for me to reasonably say there are 
outstanding faults with it. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair for me to say VWFS should allow him 
to reject the car if faults are no longer present.VWFS have determined the faults that meant the car wasnt of satisfactory lasted for around 
nine months so theyve agreed to refund 20% of the monthly instalments paid. This equates 
to around £1200 which I consider to be a significant amount and a fair resolution to reflect 
the impaired use. Given the trouble and upset caused including the multiple trips to the 
dealership, I also consider their offer of £200 compensation to be fair. 
In summary, Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality at supply. However I find the 
repairs have fixed the faults and theres insufficient evidence issues remain. VWFS has 
agreed to refund 20% of the monthly instalments for nine months to reflect the impaired use 
and to pay £200 compensation. Given the circumstances, I consider this to be fair. If they 
havent already paid this refund and compensation, I direct them to do so to resolve the 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial 
Services should:
- Refund 20% of the nine monthly instalments paid from June 2022 and pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of each payment until the date of settlement to reflect the 
impaired use;
- Pay £200 compensation to Mr U for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr U how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr U a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman