DRN-3551191
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Oakwood Homeloans Limited has declined a term extension 
on their expired interest-only mortgage.
What happened
In May 2006 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with a lender, G. They borrowed just under 
£400,000 on an interest-only basis over a term of 15 years. The mortgage has since been 
transferred to Oakwood. The mortgage term came to an end in May 2021. 
In March 2021 Mr and Mrs G asked Oakwood for a five-year term extension. They explained 
theyd been through some financial difficulties after the financial crash in 2008, resulting in 
arrears on the account. Their original repayment vehicle  a commercial property  had been 
lost in 2013, again due to the financial crash. Mr and Mrs G told Oakwood they had intended 
to re-mortgage, but that this had been affected by the pandemic, and so their plans had 
been disrupted by several years. Mr and Mrs G wanted Oakwood to extend the term by five 
years so they could achieve the true value when they eventually came to sell it.
Mr and Mrs G explained to Oakwood on 6 April 2021 that they would have the money 
available to repay the mortgage on or before 31 October 2021 and wanted to defer 
repayment of the mortgage until then. Oakwood agreed to this.
However, on 6 July 2021, Mr and Mrs G wrote to Oakwood explaining that their IFA had told 
them there was no prospect of a re-mortgage in the foreseeable future, but theyd been 
advised by an estate agent that with various work completed (building a log cabin and a 
wildlife pond), they should achieve a sale of £550,000-£575,000. Mr and Mrs G asked 
Oakwood for an extension until the spring of 2023, when their property would be put on the 
market for sale.
Oakwood wasnt able to agree to this. In Oakwoods response of 15 July 2021 was noted 
that there was no estate agents valuation of the potential sale price without the log cabin 
and wildlife pond. Oakwood asked Mr and Mrs G if theyd considered selling the property in 
its current state. Oakwood also suggested Mr and Mrs G took independent financial advice. 
Because repayment of the mortgage wasnt due until 31 October 2021, Oakwood thought 
this would give Mr and Mrs G ample time to put in place an alternative repayment strategy.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 4 August 
2021. They said that Oakwood was acting aggressively and had refused to take into account 
their extenuating circumstances. Mr and Mrs G wanted a two-year term extension and 
emphasised that they were under a deadline for this to be resolved, given that theyd 
previously agreed to repay the mortgage by 31 October 2021.
An investigator looked at what had happened. In a letter dated 13 May 2022, the investigator 
explained that, given the work that needed to be done to the property (excluding the log 
cabin and wildlife pond), an extension of twelve months should be granted.
Neither Mr and Mrs G nor Oakwood agreed with this. Initially, Mr and Mrs G said that, given 
the vagaries of fortune, a two-year term extension was more realistic. 
In a further response, Mr G, who has largely dealt with the complaint, says that putting the 
property on the market in October 2022 with a view to selling it by May 2023 is also 
unrealistic, as it wont be possible by then to have completed the majority of the work 
needed to be done to the property, let alone clearing an old industrial building and 
completing the log cabin and wildlife pond. 
Although in the original complaint and his initial response to the investigator Mr  G had asked 
for a two-year extension to May 2023, Mr G was now saying that, because of losses incurred 
as a result of the 2008 financial crash, the pandemic, and health reasons, it was not 
unreasonable for us to adhere to our original request for a five-year extension.
Mr G also gave his opinion on Oakwoods business practices in buying other lenders 
mortgage books. Mr G believes that the interest hes paid to Oakwood is far in excess of the 
price Oakwood probably paid to his original lender, G, to purchase the mortgage.
Oakwood, on the other hand, thought three months was the maximum extension that should 
be granted and that if any further extension was given, this would not give Mr and Mrs G any 
impetus to progress a sale.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, whilst Ive noted Mr Gs criticism of Oakwoods business model, this isnt 
something that falls within my remit, so I wont comment any further on it.
I note that, although Mr and Mrs G originally asked in their complaint for a two-year term 
extension, they have now changed their minds and would like me to order Oakwood to 
extend the mortgage term for five years.
Oakwood believes that extending the term to May 2023, as suggested by the investigator, 
wouldnt be helpful, as there has been little progress in improving the property to put it on 
sale, and so an extension to May 2023 isnt likely to help the situation. 
There is a clear disparity in what Mr and Mrs G are now asking for  an additional five-year 
extension  and the three-month extension that Oakwood feels is fair. I have to decide what I 
consider to be fair in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G havent applied for a new mortgage product. They want to continue to pay 
interest on the outstanding balance until the property is sold, and to be allowed to do so for a 
further five years, so until June 2027 (from the date of this decision). It is a term of the 
contract that the mortgage debt is repaid by the end of the term, which was originally May 
2021, and the debt has been overdue since the extension granted by Oakwood expired on 
31 October 2021. Its reasonable for Oakwood to expect repayment of the debt.Ive noted what Mr and Mrs G said about losing their original repayment vehicle. However, 
this was sold in 2013, some eight years before the mortgage term expired. Given this, 
although I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Gs position, they have known since at least 2013 
that they would need to have an alternative repayment strategy in place for when the 
mortgage term came to an end in 2021.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G want to carry out work to improve the property for the open 
market. Theyve explained that they are in the process of replacing double glazing, rotten 
barge boards and fascia boards. Mr and Mrs G have also mentioned cosmetic work they 
want to do to the property, as well as replacing the bathroom.
Whilst replacing the windows and repairing the barge boards and fascia boards is likely to be 
essential work  and which Mr and Mrs G have confirmed is already being done  Im not 
persuaded they are required to replace the bathroom or carry out all the cosmetic work they 
want to do before putting the property on the market, as these are things that buyers will 
often want to change themselves in any event.
Im also not persuaded that clearing an industrial building  which Mr G has confirmed isnt 
on the property title but is held on a separate deed  or building a log cabin and a wildlife 
pond  are necessary in order to sell the property.
Putting things right
In the circumstances, and taking into consideration Mr and Mrs Gs ages and health issues, I 
think that an extension to 13 May 2023 for a sale of the property is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In deciding this, Ive taken account of what Oakwood has said. However, I 
think three months is too short a time for a sale of the property. 
If by 13 May 2023 the mortgage hasnt been repaid, or Oakwood hasnt been provided with 
confirmation from Mr and Mrs Gs solicitors that a sale is in progress with an imminent 
exchange of contracts, then Oakwood would be justified in pursuing legal action to recover 
the outstanding debt.
That, of course, is a last resort, so I hope that by 13 May 2023 Mr and Mrs G will have sold 
the property or arranged alternative finance to repay the debt. It might be helpful for 
Mr and Mrs G to speak to an independent financial adviser to see what other options might 
be available to them, such as an equity release or RIO (retirement interest only) mortgage. 
But it would be remiss of me if I did not emphasise the seriousness of the situation 
Mr and Mrs G are in and the urgency with which they need to address this matter.
In the circumstances, I dont think Oakwood has acted unfairly in declining either a two-year 
or five-year term extension, as requested by Mr and Mrs G. However, I think Oakwood 
should extend the time for Mr and Mrs G to repay the mortgage to 13 May 2023.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Oakwood Homeloans 
Limited to allow Mr and Mrs G until 13 May 2023 to repay their mortgage in full.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman