DRN-1353093
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has dealt with her claim on her 
motor insurance policy. 
Mr R has brought this complaint on behalf of Mrs S but for ease Ill refer to both their actions 
as that of Mrs S. 
All references to UKI include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
What happened
Mrs S was involved in an accident on 2 October 2019 so she made a claim to UKI. She was 
hoping her car would be repaired due to its sentimental value. UKI reviewed the claim but its 
engineers decided the car was beyond economic repair as the cost to repair it exceeded its 
value. UKI initially offered Mrs S £1,400 for the car. When Mrs S said she had found a car 
which had done more miles than hers for £1,885, UKI offered her that amount for her car. 
Mrs S said she would like to try and have the car repaired so UKI offered her the option to 
keep the car and pay a scrap retention fee. 
Mrs S then spoke to the engineers who told her the car shouldnt be repaired due to the 
extent of the damage. Mrs S decided not to accept the car back for repairs and started 
searching for a new car which was similar to her old one. Mrs S also asked UKI if she could 
keep her personalised number plate. UKI said it would see if it could recover the £80 cost of 
her personalised number plate from the third party insurer. 
UKI then offered Mrs S £2,100 for her car. Unhappy with this offer and the way her claim had 
been handled Mrs S called UKI to complain. Mrs S said she couldnt find a similar car for 
£2,100 and felt her car should be valued between £2,800 to £3,000. UKI then told Mrs S it 
would send out a cheque to her for £2,055. Mrs S called to speak to UKI about this amount 
as it didnt seem correct. UKI said it had deducted the £50 excess from its offer but the third 
party had now accepted liability for the accident. So it sent the excess to Mrs S by cheque. 
UKI reviewed the complaint and issued a final response letter  dated 18 October 2019. It 
said it was happy with the valuation it had offered Mrs S for her vehicle. 
Mrs S remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to this service. She said UKI hadnt 
offered a fair valuation for her car. And that it had made errors whilst handling the claim such 
as being misadvised who she should speak to when trying to reclaim the cost of removing 
the personalised number plate from her car. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He checked 
various valuation guides and felt that the offer from UKI was fair. He also felt that although 
UKI had not handled the claim as well as it could, he didnt think he could make an offer for 
the time Mrs Ss representative had spent dealing with her claim. He added that the 
personalised number plate wasnt an insured loss so UKI didnt have to refund the cost of 
this or ask the third party insurer to cover the cost. Mrs S didnt agree. She felt the offer from UKI wasnt fair or reasonable as the mean value of 
the four valuations provided by the investigator was £2,370. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Mrs S says UKIs valuation of her car is too low and she has also questioned how the claim 
has been dealt with. 
Mrs Ss policy says UKI will settle the claim by paying her the market value of her car at the 
time of the loss. That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that the car was purchased for 
or the cost of replacing it. 
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use as theyre based on likely 
selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
I note the trade valuations provided by the investigator vary as do the prices of the same 
make and model of cars do across the country. But I believe the valuation offered by UKI 
sufficiently considers the cars age, mileage and condition. I believe an insurers valuation is 
fair and reasonable as long as its within the ranges of the various guides we use. Although 
the valuation is towards the lower end of the ranges, I still think UKI's offer is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs S has raised issues with the service she received whilst making a claim. I can 
understand why being give the wrong information and spending time on the phone can be 
frustrating. However, I would expect her to experience some inconvenience whilst dealing 
with a car insurance claim.  I agree with the investigator that I cannot consider making an 
award to Mrs S for the way UKI dealt with the claim when her representative spent the 
majority of the claim dealing with UKI on her behalf.   
I note Mrs S was given the wrong information about how to reclaim the £80 for the 
personalised number plate. The terms and conditions confirm this is an uninsured loss so 
UKI doesnt have to cover the cost or ask the third party to cover it. I accept it would have 
been frustrating when she found out UKI had wrongly advised her. But I dont think this 
warrants a further award as it was Mrs Ss representative who was making the calls at the 
time. So I wont be asking UKI to do anymore here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman