DRN-2351700
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited incorrectly reported that her 
and her sibling were the same person.
What happened
In 2010, Link gave information to a credit reference agency (T). T say this information 
alleged that Mrs D and her sibling were the same person. T reported this on Mrs Ds credit 
file as an alias, meaning that her siblings credit score was effectively merged with Mrs Ds.
Mrs D did not discover this until 2019. She reported this to T, who investigated and found 
that Mrs D and her sibling were indeed different people. They removed the alias.
Mrs D says her sibling had exceptionally poor credit, which T do not dispute. Mrs D says that 
the error ruined her ability to get credit for nine years, meaning she had to rely on high-cost 
credit, was unable to get a mortgage, couldnt help her child with their sports aspirations, and 
had severe medical issues. Shes asked for several million pounds in compensation, and for 
us to fine both businesses for as much as possible.
Link denied adding the alias and did not offer any compensation.
I sent Mrs D and Link a provisional decision on 14 October 2020, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
The situation that caused this complaint  the linking of Mrs D to her sibling  happened a 
decade ago, so I only have limited information to go on. Ive thought carefully about whats 
most likely to have happened and whats fairest to do now.
T sent us their records. T say the records show that Link added the information suggesting 
that Mrs D and her sibling were the same person. Its not completely clear exactly what Link 
said, but it is clear that one way or another, an error or errors led to Mrs Ds file being 
wrongly merged with her siblings.
The information that led to this alias being created would have come from a data supplier. 
Ts information suggests that this data supplier was Link. Link hasnt been able to give us 
anything persuasive to support its assertion that it wouldnt have made an error. And there 
does not appear to be any other data supplier who is suspected of adding the erroneous 
information. I certainly cant discount the possibility that Link gave T incorrect information 
here, given the evidence that all sides have provided. On the balance of probabilities, it 
seems most likely that Link did give erroneous information here. And so it seems fair that 
Link should be at least partly responsible for compensating Mrs D.
In terms of compensation, Mrs D has explained that she would like us to fine Link and to 
award compensation in the region of millions of pounds. I should explain that we are only an 
informal dispute resolution service. We are here to resolve complaints, not to fine or punish 
businesses. It is the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who regulates 
businesses and can issue fines, though they dont usually comment on individual situations. 
We can award compensation, but the amounts that Mrs D has asked for are far, far beyond 
the maximum limits of what were allowed to award. Bearing in mind how Mrs D would like 
the case to be looked at, it may be that she would find a court better suited to her needs  
though shed need to seek legal advice about that route.
One problem is that its not realistically possible to evidence  or even reasonably estimate  
Mrs Ds exact losses here.
To work out Mrs Ds losses, wed first need to get the details of every single credit 
application or review that shed been subject to since 2010  and most of those wont now 
be available.
Wed also need to know exactly how bad the siblings file was. Mrs D has explained it was 
extremely poor, containing court judgements and the like  and neither business have 
denied this. So the siblings particularly poor credit does not seem to be in dispute. But wed 
need the exact details of their credit history  which we cannot get due to data protection 
reasons, and which wont now be available going all the way back to 2010 anyway. That 
means we cant actually know how much the siblings file historically affected Mrs Ds.
Further, only some of the credit applications and reviews wouldve used T as the credit 
reference agency  others wouldve used different credit reference agencies. So those 
others would not have been directly affected by this alias. But then if, when T were used, 
Mrs D got turned down for applications or forced into higher rates or high-cost credit, that 
wouldve still had a substantial knock-on effect on her applications that used other credit 
reference agencies  an effect that would not be possible for me to estimate.
In cases where the siblings file had affected Mrs D, wed also need to somehow assess 
whether the removal of the siblings information wouldve actually made a difference  i.e. 
would Mrs Ds own credit score at the time have merited an acceptance or better rate, or 
would she still have been turned down or given the same rate? But we cant retrospectively 
say what her credit score wouldve looked like years ago, nor can we get each lenders 
historic lending criteria. So again, this isnt possible for me to estimate. 
Lastly, it would be almost impossible for me to evidence any direct causal link between Link 
potentially adding incorrect information to a credit file in 2010, and Mrs Ds medical issues or 
her childs sports aspirations many years down the line.
So while I appreciate where Mrs D is coming from in her approach to quantifying the losses, 
I think we need a different approach.
From the evidence I have, it seems most likely that Link contributed to a serious error here. 
And that error wouldve had wide-reaching effects on Mrs Ds credit file over an exceptionally 
long period.As I explained before, because of all the time thats passed we cant be sure what Mrs Ds 
exact losses were. But theres no dispute here that the sibling had a particularly poor credit 
history. And the erroneous alias would have affected any application or review that relied on 
data from T, causing Mrs D to have credit declined or reduced, or pushing her towards 
higher-cost credit. Then that wouldve had a significant, almost inevitable knock-on effect. 
After all, any failed applications, reduced credit limits, or shifts to high-cost credit wouldve 
then shown up on Mrs Ds credit files with other companies too, meaning that it wouldnt 
have just been her T file that was affected. This wouldve created a cumulative effect, 
pushing Mrs D further and further into difficulties with credit.
Mrs D has explained that this error affected her ability to get regular credit and to get a 
mortgage, caused her to rely on high-cost credit, and caused her great distress. And the 
error impacted her for nine years  an especially considerable amount of time.
So while I cant be sure exactly what Mrs Ds losses were, its reasonable to estimate that 
the mistaken alias wouldve had a very substantial impact. We have guidelines about what 
levels of compensation to award, and we need to be consistent. Considering the likely 
impact of the error here, along with its likely knock-on effects, and the extensive length of 
time involved, I think Link should pay Mrs D £750 compensation for the trouble and upset it 
most likely caused from its part in this situation.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 November 2020. Link didnt add anything further. Mrs D sent in further submissions, 
which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D explained she was glad that we recognised the situation had caused her distress and 
knock-on effects, but felt the suggested compensation didnt come close to covering the 
impact on her. She explained she hadnt meant to ask for compensation in the millions and 
was just referencing similar court cases. She felt that Link should be fined at a percentage 
rate to encourage them to change their processes.
I understand Mrs Ds point of view. Though I should reiterate here that were not the 
regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA for short. So were not here to fine 
or punish businesses, and we cant make them change their processes. Were here to 
resolve individual complaints informally. We have guidelines about what sort of 
compensation to award, and we need to be consistent. I think that the compensation 
I suggested in my provisional decision is in line with those guidelines.
Mrs D also provided a copy of her 2019 credit file which included some of her siblings data, 
alongside permission from her sibling to look at this information. Mrs D said that when she 
applied for a mortgage in 2017, the lender used T, and that without the siblings information 
she wouldve got the mortgage. She pointed to losses such as having to pay towards rent 
instead of towards her own equity, and moving costs when changing rental contracts.
Ive looked through this information in detail and will firstly thank Mrs D for trying to give us 
as much as possible, and for explaining her situation candidly. Unfortunately, while I see 
where shes coming from, in looking at any redress I would still face much of the same 
issues that I set out in my provisional decision.For example, while Mrs D sent us correspondence with the mortgage lender, I cant see that 
it says anywhere which credit reference agency (or agencies) the lender used. So it may be 
that they didnt even check her T credit file.
Even if I assume they did check her T file, I cant be certain that the siblings information 
made a difference. While the sibling certainly had a lot of negative information in their credit 
history, Mrs D also had a significant amount of negative information of her own. And I dont 
have access to the lenders historic lending criteria. I cant retrospectively say how Mrs Ds 
credit file would have been assessed without the siblings information on it. And this copy of 
the file comes from quite some time after the application, so it doesnt go as far back as it 
would have at the time. So I still cant fairly conclude that they would have lent to Mrs D but 
for the alias.
Then even if I assumed that the lender would have lent to Mrs D  which I cannot  its not 
possible for me to say what rate they would have given. And there were still a host of other 
factors which might have meant that the home sale didnt go through. And so on.
In order to tell Link to pay the sort of compensation Mrs D has asked for, Id need to be 
satisfied that a particular home sale would have gone through were it not solely for an error 
that Link may have made many years prior. And for the reasons I set out above and in my 
provisional decision, I think thats much too speculative.
I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs D, though it is not my intention to 
disappoint her. I also accept that Link wont be happy that Im telling it to pay increased 
compensation based on such limited information. But per my provisional decision, I think that 
Link most likely made an error here, and that the error most likely had a substantial impact 
on Mrs D, even if I dont think I can estimate her exact losses. So in line with our approach, 
I still think that it would be fair for Link to pay her £750 compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused from its part in the matter.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ds complaint, and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited to pay her £750 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman