DRN-3888026
Complaint
Mrs P has complained that lkano Bank AB (publ) lkano rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mrs P bought solar panels for her home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mrs P alleges that the supplier misled Mrs P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. 
Ikano didnt agree. Ikano said the documents from the time of sale had made it clear that the 
benefits of the solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the 
system would not be immediately self-funding in the way Mrs P says she was led to believe. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me.
In my provisional decision of 16 December 2022, I set out why I minded to not uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Ikano did not make any additional comments. 
Mrs P (through her representative) didnt agree for the following reasons:
The representative felt no weight had been given to the oral representations made by 
the supplier. They re-iterated that Mrs P was verbally told the Feed in tariff (FIT) 
payments and savings on energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments 
and that the system would be self-funding. 
The representative said that the sales advisor did not go through the sales document 
in detail. 
The representative also clarified that the complaint is not that the system is not 
performing in line with the sales documents, but that the financial benefits received 
do not cover the costs of the loan which Mrs P was assured they would.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mrs P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs P could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs P, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the representative relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that Mrs P wouldve seen the sales documents at the time of sale, as she has 
signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels is only two pages long. On the second page, it 
sets out both the cash price of the solar panel system and the estimated year 1 benefit 
provided by the solar panel system on the one document. This includes both the estimated 
income from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) scheme and savings she can expect on her energy bills. 
This set outs that Mrs Ps year 1 FIT income  was £189.53 (generation tariff of 113.72 and 
Export tariff of 75.81). 
From this section, I think its clear that the maximum estimated benefit (including both the 
FIT income and the estimated savings on energy bills) for the first year was £348.67 
Further down, the document also sets out the total cash price of the system which was 
£8,995 and noted that a deposit of £200 was to be paid. The balance of £8,795 was also set 
out and the box selecting finance was also ticked in this row. So, I think Mrs P was aware 
shed be paying the remaining balance, £8,795 using finance.  She also signed the credit 
agreement on the same day. 
This information is not hidden away in small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. And 
Mrs P has signed directly beneath the section setting out the cost. This information is all 
contained within the suppliers own contract and I think its a good reflection of the likely 
discussions Mrs P would have had with the supplier. So, I think its more likely that Mrs P 
and the supplier discussed the estimated FIT income and total benefit (including savings on 
her energy bills), the cost of the system and her method of repayment  which was finance. I 
dont think its likely that Mrs P would have agreed to purchase a solar panel system 
agreeing to repay £8,795 in finance without discussing some details about said finance. 
Overall, I think its more likely, she would have asked for and discussed some basic details 
about the finance, including the term of the loan. 
 
Mrs P went on to take out a 10-year loan to repay the remaining amounts. I think its 
apparent that to repay a loan for £8,795 over 10 years - Mrs P would need at least £879.50 
annually to meet the repayments due under the loan. And given that I think its likely she was 
made aware that the FIT income was £189.53 and the maximum annual benefit she would 
receive for the first year was £348.67  I dont think I can reasonably find that she was led to 
believe that either the FIT income alone, or estimated total benefit received from the system, 
would immediately cover the monthly finance payments. 
As explained above, Mrs P took out finance to fund the purchase of the solar panel system, 
so she agreed to pay not only the cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of 
the amount borrowed. As it was clear the benefit provided by the system would not be 
sufficient to cover the cash price of the solar panels,  I think she would have known that the 
benefit provided by the system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance 
payments which included interest on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mrs Ps testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s.140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Ikano has confirmed that it 
paid no commission to the supplier in this case and, considering that I havent found any 
misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under s.140.
Id like to reassure Mrs P and her representative that I have thought carefully about Mrs Ps 
testimony. However, as explained in my provisional decision, I find the documents from the 
time of sale to be more persuasive when considering what information she was likely given, 
and what she likely discussed with the supplier. 
I re-iterate that the documents set out the costs, financial benefits, and the finance details  
and nothing in these documents suggest the system would be self-funding. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, I think its clear from the facts and figures that were presented, that 
the system would not be self-funding. The information is contained on the one page that 
Mrs P has signed  so I dont think its likely that she didnt see it or that she wasnt given 
this information. So, Im afraid Im not satisfied that the supplier made the verbal 
representations that Mrs P now says that it did. Ive carefully reconsidered this complaint again and thought about Mrs Ps additional 
comments. But I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision, so, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman