DRN-2705869
The complaint
Ms N complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) have 
incorrectly and unfairly applied interest to her account.
 
Ms N is being represented in this complaint, but for ease I will refer to any submissions and 
actions as if they were made by Ms N.  
What happened
Ms N has a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) arrangement with Very for her catalogue shopping 
account. A payment of approximately £550 was due by 20 March 2020, or deferred interest 
of approximately £200 would be added to the account. 
The payment wasnt made and the interest was applied. Ms N called Very on 24 March 2020 
and told them that in a call on 21 March 2020, she was told by Very to call back to see if the 
interest could be removed. She says she told Very that she had been off work due to self-
isolating during the ongoing pandemic. She also made them aware her workplace had shut 
and that she couldnt afford to make the payment until the end of April 2020.
The associate then offered to put a two-month hold on Ms Ns account, which Ms N agreed 
to. However, the interest on the account remained and further interest was added during this 
two-month period. 
Ms N was unhappy and complained to Very. She said that she had been told that interest 
wouldnt be applied. Very said that the initial interest had been applied correctly as the 
payment wasnt made by 20 March 2020. They also said that whilst payments were 
subsequently frozen for two months, interest still correctly accrued.  
Ms N brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. The investigator 
thought Very had acted fairly. He said that there had been no confirmation that the applied 
interest would be removed and no guarantee that interest would not accrue whilst the 
monthly repayments were frozen. He also said that guidance from the regulator regarding 
how COVID payment holidays should be applied hadnt been issued at the time the payment 
freeze was agreed. But that this also said - when it had been issued - interest could continue 
to accrue.  
Ms N didnt accept this. She didnt think she had been treated fairly or Very had done what 
they said they would. As she remains unhappy, its now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms N that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
Very had made Ms N aware in writing that she needed to make a payment of approximately 
£550 by 20 March 2020 to avoid interest being applied. She didnt do so, so interest was 
applied. Im satisfied the interest was added in line with the agreement and therefore think it 
was fair for Very to do so.
I have listened to the call between Ms N and Very on 24 March 2020. I believe the associate 
is clear during this call that Very would only consider deducting the interest that had been 
applied, if the payment is made by the end of April 2020. No guarantee was given, and as no 
payment was made during April, I am satisfied that Very has acted fairly here.  
During the call Ms N explained that the ongoing pandemic was affecting her. washer 
workplace was currently closed, she was self-isolating, had an ongoing health issue and she 
wasnt certain what her income would be. I believe the associate acted positively and 
sympathetically by suggesting they could give two months breathing space, where Ms N 
would not need to make the monthly payments to her account. Which Ms N agreed to. 
However, I do feel that the advisor could have been clearer during the call that interest would 
continue to accrue during the two months breathing space I believe this was an omission 
and although she didnt say interest wouldnt accrue, she should have been clearer. 
However, I am satisfied that if Very had explained this, Ms N would still have taken the 
payment holiday. I say this because I am satisfied that she wasnt able to make the 
repayments and would have taken the benefit of some extra time to make them without any 
impact on her credit file. 
Ms N has also said that she didnt feel that Very had acted in line with the FCAs Covid-19 
temporary relief guidance. However, this wasnt introduced until April 2020 and it also stated 
that interest can continue to be charged during a payment holiday. I am satisfied that Very 
has acted fairly and although the guidance wasnt in place yet, Ms Ns account was still 
treated in line with it. 
Im aware that Ms N is and how interest has continued to accrue. However as these are new 
issues, shell need to raise those with Very separately. 
I accept my decision will disappoint Ms N. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont require 
Very to do anything to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we  in attempting to 
resolve Ms Ns dispute with Very  can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman