DRN-3186495
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited hasnt shown that it has taken into account all of his 
credit card numbers when compensating him for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
The circumstances leading up to this complaint are known to both parties and are not 
disputed - so I wont repeat this all here.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary they said they had reviewed 
MBNAs redress calculations and concluded its offer of compensation was fair  they said 
the available evidence showed MBNA had taken into account all relevant card numbers.
Mr C doesnt accept the matter is concluded. He says it appears one account number has 
been omitted while another one has been mentioned for the first time. Mr C supposes that 
because the numbers are comprised of the same digits it could be the case that the numbers 
have simply been transposed  but because he cant make this determination he wants an 
ombudsman to review things.
The complaint therefore comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint and my reasons are set out below.
I think the adjudicator has set out the position clearly and theres very little I can add to what 
Mr C has already been told. Ive reviewed the information MBNA used to arrive at Mr Cs 
offer of compensation, including the detailed calculations and the credit card number history. 
Based on this available information  and absent anything to persuade me otherwise - I think 
MBNA has calculated things correctly and so fairly compensated Mr C. 
I can see in response to the adjudicators findings that Mr C says one of the card / account 
numbers is missing and a new one has been mentioned for the first time. But as Mr C also 
says the (account ending) numbers are comprised of the same four digits just in a different 
order. Mr C himself suggests this could be a transpositional error. And I think this is likely the 
case  Ive not seen anything to persuade me that it is anything more than this. As I said 
above I have reviewed the credit card number history and Im satisfied MBNA has taken 
them all into account in arriving at Mr Cs compensation amount. 
So overall I think MBNA has calculated Mr Cs PPI compensation fairly. And on the basis 
that MBNA has already made payment to Mr C (according to MBNA Mr C cashed its cheque 
in December 2019) theres nothing more it needs to do.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make 
no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman