The complaint
Mrs M complains about the settlement of an accident claim under her car insurance policy by 
Tesco Underwriting Limited.
What happened
Mrs M had car insurance with Tesco and made a claim when her car was hit by another 
vehicle. Tesco accepted the claim and paid for repairs to the right-hand front corner of the 
car. But when the car was returned to Mrs M, she reported the steering had failed, the 
battery was flat, the parking sensor was loose, and the interior of the car was dirty. 
The car was returned to the garage where it was assessed by an engineer. The engineer 
found the parking sensor fault was due to a headlamp washer jet cover which had been 
fitted incorrectly. And he said the problems with the steering and the battery were due to the 
fact the alternator was faulty. Tesco said the car had been cleaned to a satisfactory 
standard. And it refused to pay for a new alternator because the problem was an electrical 
defect that wasnt linked to the accident or the associated repairs.
Mrs M complained to Tesco about its refusal to pay for the alternator to be replaced, but it 
maintained the issue wasnt linked to the claim or the associated repairs.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. But our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He noted the original damage report only showed damage 
to the bodywork. The car had been road-tested before it was returned to Mrs M and she had 
used the car before the she identified the problem with the steering. He noted the inspection 
report had concluded the problem wasnt linked to the accident or the repairs, so he was 
satisfied Tescos refusal to pay for the repair was fair.
Mrs M has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its been passed to 
me to review. Shes pointed out there were no electronic or mechanical checks, and the car 
was in perfect working condition before the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
The terms of the policy required Tesco to repair any damage to Mrs Ms car that was caused 
by the accident. Mrs M is complaining that she doesnt think Tesco has repaired everything 
that was damaged by the accident.
DRN-1574144Mrs M complained the interior of her car was dirty when it was returned to her the first time. 
But the garage said it had been washed and vacuumed to an acceptable bodyshop 
standard. The policy didnt require Tesco to pay for a full valet, and Mrs W hasnt given us 
anything to show the car was soiled or in an unreasonable condition when it was returned to 
her. So, I dont think the fact the car wasnt professionally cleaned was unfair or 
unreasonable.
Mrs M has also complained that the car also had a loose parking sensor and subsequently 
developed a fault with the steering. She believes the car wasnt properly assessed when it 
was first taken to the garage, and that the garage incorrectly said the repairs were only 
cosmetic. Ive looked at the impact damage to Mrs Ms car and the damage wasnt 
significant. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the garage to have concluded the 
damage was only cosmetic.
Tesco arranged for the car to be inspected again after Mrs M reported the issues with the 
repairs. The garage said there wasnt an issue with the parking sensor, but it was down to a 
headlamp washer jet which it said was supposed to be loose. It said the issue with the 
steering was down to a faulty alternator which has in turn damaged the battery. And Mrs M 
hasnt given us anything to show that this diagnosis wasnt the cause of the issues she had. 
I note theres no mention of any problems with the alternator in the original report, and the 
car was road tested before it was returned to Mrs W, with no record of any problems related 
to the alternator. Its possible the alternator was damaged in the accident, or while the car 
was in the garage being repaired. But due to the location of the alternator and the small 
amount of external damage to the car, the engineer concluded it wasnt damaged in the 
accident. Mrs M hasnt produced any expert evidence to contradict what the engineer has 
said. And, ultimately, I havent seen enough to show the problem with the alternator was 
linked to the accident or subsequent repairs. 
Mrs M said there were no problems with the car before the accident, but that doesnt mean 
the issue wasnt developing before the accident.  Its possible the incident has highlighted an 
underlying issue that was developing before the accident. But this doesnt mean the failure 
was caused by the accident or subsequent repair.
Im conscious that the car was over 14 years old so theres likely to be some wear and tear. 
Based on the available evidence, I think the problem with the alternator was electronic and it 
was most likely a result of wear and tear, which isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
So, Im satisfied Tescos decision not to pay for the repairs was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I know Mrs M will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman