DRN-3223664
The complaint
Mr H complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited gave him incorrect information 
when it said he didnt have a legal expenses policy. He says he acted on this information 
and incurred legal costs at his own expense as a result. 
What happened
Mr H had a legal expenses insurance policy from 2012 until 2014.  
The policy was administered by Atlanta. 
In 2012, Mr H had an accident  for which he wanted to pursue legal action. 
He says that in 2016 he contacted Atlanta to make a claim under the policy in force 
at the time of the accident but was told he didnt have a legal expenses policy.
In its final response letter, Atlanta confirmed Mr H had a policy but said it didnt have 
a record of him visiting a branch or calling in 2016. 
It said that without evidence to show it had told Mr H he didnt have a legal expenses 
policy it was unable to uphold his complaint. 
Mr H brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator considered it and said 
shed seen no evidence to suggest Atlanta had given Mr H the wrong information. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. Mr H has said its for Atlanta to 
prove it didnt tell him the wrong information about his policy, and that if it cant, his complaint 
should be upheld. 
But I disagree. When considering complaints, well look at the evidence provided by both 
sides to determine what is most likely to have happened. So, the burden doesnt fall entirely 
on the business to either prove or disprove something happened, the customer is also 
responsible for providing evidence to substantiate their complaint. With that in mind, Ive 
looked at what both parties have provided. 
Before determining if incorrect information had been given, I first need to be satisfied that an 
interaction happened between the parties. Mr H hasnt been able to provide evidence of 
speaking to Atlanta in 2016 aside from his testimony that it happened. He said he was 
prompted to do so after speaking to his own solicitors, and hes provided a copy of the 
agreement he had with his solicitor, which I note is dated December 2016. Whilst the 
agreement was signed around the time Mr H said he spoke to Atlanta  in November 2016 - 
I dont consider it to be persuasive as it in itself doesnt prove that a conversation took place 
about his policy with Atlanta or that he was told incorrect information about it. 
Atlanta has explained that it doesnt retain calls for more than three years - which is not 
uncommon  so it cant check whether a call took place in 2016. But its provided policy 
notes which contain details of interactions it has had with Mr H. I can see entries for the 
period 2011  2014, but theres nothing for 2016 - which doesnt support Mr Hs argument 
that he had a conversation with Atlanta around November 2016. 
Ive noted Mr Hs comment in response to the investigators view that he was experiencing 
poor mental health at the time, and that this should be considered when deciding his 
complaint. Whilst Im sorry to hear of the difficulties he was experiencing at the time, Mr H 
hasnt explained why this is material to the complaint. Whats key here is whether theres 
evidence of Mr H having interacted with Atlanta in 2016 and evidence that he was given 
incorrect information. 
Even if I were persuaded that Mr H did speak to Atlanta  whether in person at a branch or 
by phone (as hes suggested might have also happened)  theres simply not enough 
evidence to persuade me that on the balance of probabilities Atlanta gave him incorrect 
information about his legal expenses insurance policy. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr H but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman