DRN-2698628
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with his mortgage after the term 
ended.
 
What happened
Mr H had an interest-only mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage term ended in December 
2018. 
In November 2018 Mr H agreed a plan with Barclays to repay the mortgage over the next 
few years. But he says that, despite this, he continued to receive correspondence from 
Barclays which indicated that there was no arrangement in place and that hed breached the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service in early 2020. He explained that he had 
complained to Barclays in June 2019 but had never received a response.
Barclays subsequently investigated Mr Hs complaint. It agreed that it had made some 
errors, and that it had taken too long to investigate his complaint and provide him with a 
response. And it offered him £600 to compensate him for the issues he had suffered. 
Our investigator said, in summary:
It was clear from the evidence hed seen that when the mortgage finished in 
December 2018 there was an arrangement in place between Barclays and Mr H to 
address how the outstanding balance would be repaid. 
But it was also clear that until April 2019 or so Mr H was receiving correspondence 
from Barclays that didnt apply to his situation. For instance, in January 2019 Mr H 
received a letter saying the arrangement had been broken and that a field agent may 
be instructed to visit him. The investigator had seen from the account notes that Mr H 
had contacted Barclays about this letter and that it acknowledged this was an error 
on its part. Mr H had to set up another arrangement because of this, and had clearly 
been caused stress and inconvenience;
There was a further issue in March 2019 when Mr H received a letter saying Barclays 
was having problems reaching him and needed him to confirm his address. Mr H had 
called Barclays about this letter. Mr H had said that his address had never changed 
and that Barclays never had any problem contacting him, and Barclays notes 
supported this;
Mr H had contacted Barclays again in April 2019 about text messages he was 
receiving. The agent he spoke to assured Mr H that there was nothing wrong and 
there was a plan in place. The agent had also offered to suppress the text messages 
but Mr H said that this wasnt necessary.
From what hed seen, whenever Mr H spoke to Barclays it assured him that nothing 
was wrong. But he agreed that Mr H had suffered stress as a result of the issues that 
had occurred, and he noted that Barclays had accepted this in its response to his 
complaint. Barclays had offered Mr H £600 compensation. And he felt that this was 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Hed also looked at how Barclays reported the mortgage to the credit reference 
agencies for the period from December 2018 until the mortgage was redeemed in 
February 2021. But he felt that the information Barclays had reported was correct. 
And so he didnt feel that Barclays needed to do anything further about that aspect of 
the complaint.
Mr H doesnt agree with our investigators view. He feels that he should receive at least 
£1,200 compensation. 
As agreement has not been reached the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the circumstances of this complaint Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I realise that this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr H and Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive reviewed the contact notes and documentation available to me. I see that Mr H agreed a 
mortgage payment plan with Barclays in November 2018, before his mortgage term ended in 
December 2018. And I can see that Mr H received a number of letters after that date. In 
particular, I agree that the letter Mr H received in January 2019, which indicated that the 
arrangement had been broken, would have caused Mr H stress and inconvenience. Barclays 
has accepted that this letter was sent as a result of an error on its part, as the payment plan 
hadnt been set up correctly.
Ive also seen that Mr H received a letter in March 2019 saying that Barclays was having 
trouble contacting him. Again, Mr H had to contact Barclays to discuss this further. And he 
also contacted Barclays once more in April 2019 as he said he kept receiving text messages 
from Barclays. However, although I appreciate it was inconvenient for Mr H to keep 
contacting Barclays Im satisfied that he was reassured each time that his payment plan was 
still in place. 
Barclays has accepted that it made errors in relation to Mr Hs payment plan and it offered 
him £600 compensation for the distress, errors, delays and inconvenience in contacting 
Barclays. I appreciate that Mr H feels that this is insufficient, and that the stress he has 
suffered has damaged his health. But, although Ive carefully considered what Mr H has to 
say, Im satisfied that £600 compensation is a substantial award, and is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H has also raised concerns about how his credit record was affected by the issues that 
occurred. But Barclays has provided details of what it has reported, and this looks to be a 
correct reflection of how the account has been operated. So I dont require it to do anything 
further in relation to this.
In Mr Hs response to our investigators view he also mentioned that he has now redeemed 
his mortgage but had a further complaint about the length of time taken to send him the 
deeds. For the avoidance of doubt, this issue will need to be set up as a separate complaint 
and I have not considered it in this decision.
 Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £600 compensation and I think this 
offer is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman