DRN-3419295
The complaint
Mrs H isnt happy her claim under her motor insurance policy hasnt been met by 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Advantage are responsible for 
it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
The relevant elements are copied below, and form part of this final decision.
Mrs Hs daughter is a named driver on the policy. On 24 March 2021 Mrs Hs daughter was 
driving the car, changed into the wrong gear, and came off the clutch suddenly  damaging 
the car in the process. Mrs H says she rang to make a claim but was told this wasnt 
covered. She wasnt told what section of the policy it wasnt covered under, and felt she 
received really poor customer service from Advantage before getting an answer.
When Mrs H was told they dont cover failure or breakage of electrical or mechanical parts, 
she thought the policy wording was deceiving. She felt the section they were referring to only 
related to wear and tear or a fault. And she felt if theyre excluding a driver making a mistake 
and causing mechanical damage it needs to be explicitly pointed out in the policy terms this 
wouldnt be classed as accidental damage.
Advantage said they understood Mrs H felt this should be covered under the accidental 
damage section of her policy. But there are exclusions to this. They said Mrs Hs claim falls 
under the breakage of a mechanical component  so they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things, explaining Advantage hadnt 
replied to her concerns about the poor handling shed raised.
One of our Investigators looked into things but didnt think Advantage had acted unfairly. 
Mrs H didnt agree and said she could get a letter from the company who repaired her 
gearbox, to say it wouldnt have locked up unless accidentally engaging the wrong gear. She 
also said she wanted to pursue the matter, as she knows this could only have happened due 
to an accident not a mechanical failure. Because Mrs H didnt agree the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
Before deciding this case, I arranged for us to ask both parties for additional information. Ive 
covered the replies to those requests, and my thoughts on them, below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
Mrs Hs policy says shes covered for accidents, vandalism and malicious damage. The 
exclusions that apply to this section say:
Youre not covered for:
Wear and tear, deterioration, or any loss or damage that happens gradually
Failures, breakdowns or breakage of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer 
equipment
Other exclusions also apply, but these are the only relevant ones to Mrs Hs case.
Ive noted Mrs Hs comments, that she felt the exclusions for a mechanical part no longer 
working was only about wear and tear, or a fault. But, I cant agree with her wear and tear 
point, as theres a separate section for this. So, Advantage intended that to be for different 
issues, and I think thats clear enough in Mrs Hs case.
Regarding the fault element I do think thats what the second section is likely meant to cover 
 as I wouldnt expect any insurer to pay for the maintenance of someones car.
Its not in dispute Mrs Hs gearbox failed  the question is one of interpretation of whether 
her daughters action in taking her foot off the clutch while it was in the wrong gear was an 
accident, or a mechanical breakage.
Advantages position is that Mrs Hs daughters error caused the mechanical failure of the 
gearbox. They added the user error was an accident, but still resulted in the mechanical 
failure therefore isnt covered.
Mrs H had told us she could get an engineers report to confirm what shed said. But, having 
done so, the engineer hasnt provided a definitive cause of whats happened.
Taking everything into account, I dont have enough to definitively determine why the 
gearbox failed. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not a mechanical failure, and that 
means Im currently satisfied Advantage have acted fairly in not meeting this claim.
The customer service
Mrs H also had concerns regarding the handling of her claim  as she said she wasnt given 
correct information, had to chase repeatedly and was just generally frustrated with 
Advantages communications.
After shed complained, Advantage didnt address these points, so she contacted us.
I noted Advantage hadnt provided us with any information regarding this, so arranged for us 
to ask them to provide copies of their contact notes, all emails sent to and from Mrs H, and a 
specific call recording of 29 April 2021.
When replying, Advantage didnt even acknowledge this request, which I find disappointing. 
Given theyve previously ignored Mrs Hs concerns on this, and our own requests, I didnt 
deem it necessary to delay an outcome for Mrs H any further. So, in the absence of any 
information from Advantage, Ive considered carefully Mrs Hs comments about what shes 
experienced.She said shes had significant difficulties in complaining, didnt know under what section of 
her policy the claim had been turned down  and Advantages agents were rude and 
argumentative in a call on 29 April 2021 to one of her family members. Shes also said 
multiple emails were ignored. All of which she says has caused her distress.
Taking into account the information I have been provided with, this sounds incredibly 
frustrating. So, I think £200 compensation would be fair to address the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs H by Advantages poor service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs Hs husband replied, explaining hes a mechanical fitter. He wanted to clarify it wasnt 
they were in any doubt the clutch failed  it was that the gearbox failed. He said if the clutch 
was worn then itd have slipped and the damage to the gearbox wouldnt have happened. He 
said the clutch did its job too well, which is why the gearbox failed  and in his mechanical 
opinion the only way this could have happened is when his daughter accidentally put it in the 
wrong gear and slipped off the clutch. 
In a separate email, he suggested I discuss the way the car got damaged with a mechanic 
because he knows how these parts work.
Advantage also replied and didnt have any concerns over the outcome of the claim, but said 
they thought it unfair Id considered the customer service when itd not previously been 
raised. They wanted to raise a new complaint and reply to it accordingly.
Our service explained I felt the issue had been raised previously, so didnt think that was 
appropriate. Although I can see Advantage didnt agree, they raised no further arguments 
after our last email on this point.
But, in these discussions, they did provide further information to be considered  including 
call recordings of the initial claim, and all emails they say had been received. This didnt 
include the call of 29 April 2021. We asked Mrs H for more details about this call, but she 
didnt reply. 
Having considered the information I was provided with by Advantage, I asked our 
Investigator to explain to Mrs H and Advantage I no longer planned to award compensation 
 as it seemed Mrs H had been given the correct information from the beginning. We asked 
her, and Advantage, if they had any further comments to make on this point  letting them 
know Id likely issue my final decision after this time. Neither replied by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
I understand Mrs Hs strength of feeling, and that of her husband. But my role isnt as a 
Mechanic or an Engineer  my role is to decide whether Advantage have treated Mrs H fairly 
when reaching an outcome on the case.
When replying to our Investigators outcome, Mrs H said shed be able to get evidence from 
the person who repaired the gearbox to explain what happened. As Ive set out above, the 
engineer hasnt provided a definitive cause of what happened. So, the person who looked 
and inspected Mrs Hs gearbox, isnt able to confirm exactly why it broke. Given that, I dont think its needed for me to talk to a mechanic, as I cant see how anyone would be in a better 
position to offer a definitive cause of the reason for the failure, than the person who saw the 
failed item. Because of that, Ive not changed my thoughts on this section  and I think 
Advantage have fairly turned down Mrs Hs claim. 
Customer service
While I find it disappointing it took Advantage until Id issued my provisional decision to reply 
to the concerns regarding the customer service Mrs H had raised  it wouldnt be fair to 
ignore their points on this.
From their perspective, theyve said they gave Mrs H clear and consistent information about 
whether the claim would or wouldnt be covered. Having listened to the calls now provided, 
Im in agreement with this. Mrs H was told on the only two calls Ive been provided with, in 
clear and direct language, her claim for an accident wouldnt be covered.
As Ive now found that to be accurate, I cant agree with Mrs H shes been given incorrect 
information. Ive also not seen sufficient evidence of her chasing up for an answer. Overall, 
based on the evidence I now have, I wont be awarding any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman