DRN-1215351
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI in 1995 at the same time as arranging a further advance on 
their existing mortgage. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr 
M for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork relating to the sale, which is not surprising, 
especially as the mortgage itself was redeemed some time ago. It does however make it 
more difficult to decide this complaint. In reaching my decision I have considered the 
evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
When Mr and Mrs M first sent their complaint to Nationwide, they filled in a questionnaire 
saying they were unhappy because they were led to believe that they had to have the PPI as 
a condition of the lending. However, their complaint to this service was that they didnt know 
they had the policy. These two statements are clearly at odds with each other. Im therefore 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M have any clear recollection of the sale, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the policy would have been 
presented as optional. I havent seen anything in this case to persuade me that something 
different happened during the sale to Mr and Mrs M. Overall, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs M were given a choice about taking out the policy. It seems to me that they 
probably decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
Ive seen evidence that Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs M annual renewal schedules for the 
policy. The policy and its cost is also mentioned in Mr and Mrs Ms annual mortgage 
statements. Overall Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M ought reasonably to have known that 
they had the policy.Neither party knows how the policy was sold (although Mr M originally said in his 
questionnaire sent to Nationwide that it was during a meeting). I dont know if Nationwide 
advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy or not, but that doesnt make a difference to my 
decision.
If Nationwide did advise Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy, then it needed to ensure that it met 
their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, the policy 
was suitable for them.
From information that Mr M sent in, it looks as if his employer would have given him six 
months full pay, followed by six months half pay, if he was off sick. However, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr M would have 
received full pay for (the policy had a benefit period of 24 months).
Mr M has said he was enrolled in a group income protection scheme that would have started 
to pay out once his sick pay finished. However, from the information that Mr M has sent in, 
his membership of that scheme didnt start until 1 May 1997, so some time after the PPI was 
sold to him (Mr M has said he doesnt understand the logic of why Nationwide upheld his 
complaint about a loan PPI policy being mis-sold. But as he took out the loan in 1997, when 
he was then a member of the income protection scheme, that could perhaps explains it).
Given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances in 1995, it seems they had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. 
So they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so there 
is nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman