DRN-3208963
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what happened after his hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) limited trading as BMW Financial Services (BMW) ended.
Mr C is being represented in this case. However, for ease of reference, my decision will only 
refer to Mr C.
What happened
On 17 May 2017 Mr C was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £7,500, and the agreement was for £29,852.26 over 
24 months; with 23 monthly payments of £310.98, and a final payment of £27,630.84. 
At the end of the contract, Mr C agreed to return the car. And he agreed to deliver this to a 
local dealership, while it was awaiting collection by BMW. The car was left at the dealership 
on 9 May 2019 and was collected on 4 June 2019. BMW then sold the car at auction on 17 
September 2020.
On 27 September 2019, Mr C received a fixed penalty notice because the car wasnt 
insured. And, as the registered keeper, Mr C was liable for this. Mr C applied for a mortgage 
in October 2019, which was initially declined because BMW had recorded missed payments 
on his credit file. BMW removed the adverse entries in December 2019, and the mortgage 
was subsequently approved.
Mr C complained to BMW about whatd happened. They said theyd fixed the issue with the 
credit file, but they didnt think they were responsible for the fixed penalty notice. Mr C wasnt 
happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence that Mr Cs mortgage application had been 
declined because of the adverse entries registered by BMW. He said this had caused Mr C 
some distress and inconvenience and, because of this, the investigator thought BMW should 
pay Mr C £250 compensation.
However, the investigator said it was clear from the letters BMW sent Mr C before the 
agreement ended that it was his responsibility to advise the DVLA he was no longer the 
registered keeper of the car. And Mr C didnt do this. As such, he didnt think BMW were 
responsible for the fixed penalty notice Mr C received. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he needed a solicitor to represent him in 
this matter, at a cost of £600. And hed like this considered as part of the compensation. 
Hes also said that he completed the end of contract paperwork correctly, and that he left the 
V5C with the dealership, whod assured him they would send this to the DVLA for him. Mr C 
also said that the issue with the mortgage delayed him moving property until February 2021.
Because Mr C didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
reporting of arrears
Its not disputed that BMW reported arrears against Mr Cs account in error. While theyve 
not provided any valid explanation as to what caused the issue, from what Ive seen Im 
satisfied this was most probably due to their failure to close Mr Cs account properly. And 
they therefore reported missed payments when no payments were actually due.
Ive seen an email from Mr Cs mortgage lender which clearly states that when you first 
applied for the new mortgage application [this] was declined due to adverse credit history 
with [BMW]  once this had been corrected  the mortgage was subsequently agreed.
Given this, Im satisfied that BMWs error was solely responsible for Mr Cs application being 
initially declined. However, Mr C wasnt made aware of what had happened until early 
October 2019. At which point he instructed a solicitor to complain to BMW.
Mr C has confirmed that my credit file was only amended after 2 months of constant 
complaints. Which is borne out by BMW confirming that Mr Cs credit file was amended in 
early December 2019. Mr C has also provided information that he was declined for a credit 
card and overdraft in February 2020. As BMW corrected his credit file in December 2019, 
and as I havent seen anything to show me that they subsequently reported any further 
arrears; Im satisfied there mustve been another reason why Mr C was declined for finance. 
And BMW werent responsible for this.
Ive noted Mr Cs comments about the delay in him being able to move properties. However, 
as stated above, Im satisfied that any issues that occurred after December 2019 werent the 
fault of BMW. But this doesnt mean that Mr C shouldnt be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused in October and November 2019.
The investigator recommended a payment of £250 to recognise the impact on Mr C. I think a 
payment of £250 is a fair one and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I think BMW should pay Mr C £250 in recognition of the impact hes experienced.
Mr C instructed a solicitor to deal with this matter. However, I dont consider this was an 
issue that was sufficiently legally complex that a solicitor needed to become involved. Mr C 
couldve complained directly to BMW at no cost. And, if he didnt feel he was able to do this, 
he couldve been represented by a friend or family member, or by a third-party, such as the 
Citizens Advice Bureau or his local MP. Which would also have been at no cost.
Given this, I dont see any compelling reason why BMW should cover the costs of Mr Cs 
legal advice; when legal representation wasnt needed and was done at Mr Cs choice.fixed penalty notice
Ive seen a copy of the letter BMW sent to Mr C on 18 March 2019. This explained what 
would happen when his agreement came to an end on 17 May 2019. And it said that, if Mr C 
chose not to keep the car, you will need to notify the DVLA that you are returning the car to 
us. The letter went on to explain how Mr C would need to do this  - on the day the car was 
handed over, hed need to either send a completed part of the V5C to the DVLA, or notify the 
DVLA of the sale online. 
BMW followed this up with a letter dated 20 May 2019, which also explained it was Mr Cs 
responsibility to advise the DVLA the car had been returned to BMW. The letter also 
confirmed the ways Mr C could do this.
Based on the above, Im satisfied BMW made Mr C aware of his responsibilities, and what 
hed need to do. Im aware that Mr C believed the dealership would do this for him, but this 
was an agreement he had with the dealership and not BMW. However, regardless of any 
agreement he mayve had with the dealership, it remained Mr Cs responsibility to ensure the 
DVLA were told he was no longer the registered keeper.
It's not disputed that the DVLA werent advised and, as a result, Mr C received a fixed 
penalty notice. But, for the reasons given above, Im not holding BMW responsible for the 
DVLA not being informed. And I wont be asking them to take any action regarding the fixed 
penalty notice.
Putting things right
For the reasons stated, BMW should pay Mr C £250 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused because of BMW reporting arrears on his account in error.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. And BMW Financial Services (GB) 
limited trading as BMW Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman