DRN-2895996
The complaint
The owner of C, a taxi firm complained that Gefion Insurance A/S declined his commercial 
motor insurance claim, following the total loss of a taxi which was damaged during a flood.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and copied here. 
One of the taxis owned by C was being driven by an employee of the business, Mr J during 
a heavy flood. Mr J had driven his own car to Cs premises to collect the taxi then returned 
along the same road. 
At the time of Mr Js journey there was heavy rain and flooding in the area. Mr J drove the 
taxi through what he thought to be about 20cm of water on the road, when he had passed 
through the water the taxi cut out and he got out, he says the water level had risen to about 
30-40cm deep in the 10 minutes it had taken him to collect the taxi. 
Water had got into the taxi engine and it couldnt be repaired. Gefion said they were 
declining the claim because Mr J hadnt taken all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle 
from loss or damage as required by Cs policy. They say Mr J should have known driving 
through the water would have been risky. C says Mr J knew the area well including the 
conditions from previous floods and didnt consider there to be a risk.
Gefion contacted the local council who confirmed in an email there would have been road 
closure signs present and provided several pieces of media footage from the day in question 
which show how high the water was. They also provided evidence that the river close by the 
road reached the highest levels on record on that day. 
Mr J and C however stated the river is known to rise and fall particularly quickly and just 
because the water level was high at various points in the day didnt mean it was when Mr J 
drove through the water.
Additionally, there were delays with Cs claim about which C complained, there was a ten 
day delay between Gefion receiving the engineers report and Mr J being interviewed about 
the incident. However, there were further delays caused by Mr J who cancelled two 
appointments at short notice and had limited availability due to work commitments. This 
meant the interview about the incident didnt take place for another 37 days.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided by both Gefion and C and concluded that 
Mr Js account and experience of driving in the local area and previous flood conditions 
meant that he believed it was safe to drive through the water and as such it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for Gefion to decline the claim. In recognition of the delays and the claim being 
declined our investigator ordered Gefion to pay C £250.00 compensation.
Gefion disagreed with our investigators view and requested the case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional findings I found it clear Gefion and C were in agreement that there was a 
was a flood in the area when Mr J drove the taxi through the water on the flooded road and it 
was this flood which caused the taxi irreparable damage. 
The key points under consideration were whether Mr J could or should have known driving 
through the water was a risky choice to make and whether there were signs in place warning 
of road closures. In other words, did Mr J take all reasonable steps to safeguard the vehicle 
as required by the policy.
I accepted Mr Js account that he is familiar with the area and knows the road well, having 
previous experience of floods in there. I considered this ought to have alerted him to the 
risks of driving in this flood water. I also recognise that by several measures this was one of, 
if not the worst flood the area had seen, with the Environment Agency confirming the river 
was at its highest level on record. Mr J said there was no signage indicating the road 
closures.
I also reviewed evidence provided by Gefion which included an account from the local 
council. The local council explained they had no record of the exact times signs were put up 
and then taken down but confirmed there was signage in place stating, road closed and 
road ahead closed and these signs would have covered the junction Mr J used.
The local council explained staff first arrived in the area approximately 8 hours before Mr J 
dove Cs taxi along the stretch of road. At this time they were assessing cracking to a nearby 
bridge and closed the road ahead of an engineers assessment. The engineer arrived and 
left the area about 2 hours before Mr J drove through, but it was not until the following day 
that the local police force advised the council the water had receded enough to reopen the 
road. 
Additionally I considered the delays C encountered. There were delays caused by both 
parties however lengthier delays were caused by Mr Js availability. While I appreciate why 
Mr J had limited availability and the importance of his work commitments it wouldnt be fair to 
hold Gefion responsible for that.
I balanced Mr Js account that there were no road closure signs up and the evidence of the 
local council. As the local council have said signs were put up and would have covered the 
junction used by Mr J. Considering the timings, I think it is likely they would have been in 
place when he drove past, however it is possible Mr J may not have seen them. Taking all of 
the information into consideration, I provisionally decided not to uphold Cs complaint.
C responded to my provisional decision and supplied additional evidence in the form of a 
statement from Mr W who repairs vehicles for C. Mr W states approximately 45 minutes prior 
to Mr J he drove along the same road and didnt see any signage indicating road closures or 
flooding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I remain of the view that 
Gefion need not do anything further.
I have considered this new information further but I am not convinced it changes my 
decision. The key tenet under consideration is whether Mr J took all reasonable care  driving through the flooded road. I accept Mr J may not have seen any signage indicating road 
closures, however I believe the independent evidence provided by the council to be 
accurate. Additionally, the presence of signage is only one element of my consideration. It is 
apparent there was significant media reporting of the flood levels on the day and there was 
an Amber flood warning in place. Furthermore the river reached record breaking levels and 
as Mr J said he was very familiar with the road I think he ought to have noticed the unusual 
risk posed by the flood water. 
Taking all evidence together I believe Mr J could have been more careful and his actions 
may be considered as not taking reasonable care of his vehicle. Consequently, I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Gefion to decline Cs claim under the terms of the policy and I do not 
require it to take any action about Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision I do not uphold the complaint and 
do not require Gefion to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman