DRN-3463418
The complaint
Mr O complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) provided him with a personal loan that was 
unaffordable, and later unfairly applied a default. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here.
Mr O was provided with a £10,500 loan by Zopa in March 2017. The repayment term was 36 
months. 
Mr O made the agreed repayments until around November 2017, after which three of the 
monthly repayments were missed. When Zopa contacted him about the arrears Mr O let it 
know his wife was unwell and that hed had difficulty making payments online. Zopa reported 
the late payments to credit reference agencies, but when Mr O complained it agreed to have 
the missed payment removed from his credit file. Mr O resumed making the contractual 
monthly repayments.  
Mr O didnt make his monthly repayment in July 2019 and so Zopa wrote to him to remind 
him that it was overdue. When he also missed the August 2019 repayment, Zopa issued a 
notice of arrears. This letter asked Mr O to contact Zopa to discuss his account. 
Zopa issued a default notice in September 2019, after Mr O failed to make the agreed 
repayment that month. It then issued a formal demand for payment letter in October 2019, 
for the total outstanding amount, which was around £3,200. Zopa said the period during 
which Mr O could have remedied the default had expired. It asked Mr O to contact its 
recoveries team to arrange repayment of the debt. 
Mr O contacted Zopa the following day. He said he had a serious health condition, was 
having tests and wouldnt be in a position to sort things out for at least another week. 
Zopa responded the following day. It put Mr Os account on hold for 30 days and said it 
would do what it could to help. It asked Mr O to complete and return an income and 
expenditure form to help it understand his situation and see if a reduced payment plan could 
be set up. It also asked Mr O to provide medical documents. 
Zopa then emailed Mr O on approximately a monthly basis between November 2019 and 
June 2021. It reminded Mr O when the 30 day hold had passed; encouraged him to provide 
the information it requested about his medical situation; asked him to get in touch to consider 
options and let him know it would go back to collecting payments for the loan in the usual 
way in March 2020 if it did not hear from him. 
Mr O contacted Zopa at the end of June 2021 and said as a result of defaults issued by 
Zopa and others while his mental health was suffering, he had a breakdown. He said the 
default means he cant borrow money to pay Zopa whats owed.  
Zopa responded the following day. It sympathised but said defaults are issued automatically 
after three or more missed contractual payments. Zopa said no more interest will be applied 
to the loan as a result of the default. It asked Mr O to complete an income and expenditure 
so it could work with Mr O towards a long-term payment solution. 
Mr O complained in September 2021 about whether the loan was affordable and whether his 
health problems were taken seriously. 
Zopa responded and said it considered a range of factors before offering Mr O the loan, 
including information from credit reference agencies, an income check and maintenance of 
repayments on an active loan. So it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly. Zopa said it could 
see Mr Os mental health and difficult personal circumstances had been discussed with it in 
the past and it was confident it provided him with the necessary support regarding this and 
the management of his account. 
Mr O then brought his complaint to this Service. He said the default was causing him the 
most distress. Mr O said he had tried to negotiate a settlement with Zopa. He said hed tried 
every possible avenue to borrow elsewhere to pay it back, but couldnt because of the 
default.  
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint, and as Mr O didnt agree, this has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to make it clear that this decision will only address the question of whether 
the loan was affordable and whether Zopa dealt sympathetically and positively with Mr O 
when he wasnt able to make repayments from July 2019 and it subsequently issued a 
default. Thats because these are the issues Mr O complained to Zopa about, and which it 
responded to in the final response letter issued in September 2021. So Im not looking at 
issues that arose later, or the issues that arose earlier which were dealt with by Zopa when it 
issued a final response letter in February 2019. 
Ive looked at whether Zopa did enough to check that the loan was affordable when Mr O 
applied for it in 2017. As a regulated business, Zopa is required to carry out proportionate 
and reasonable affordability checks when a consumer applies for borrowing with it. 
And carrying out proportionate checks means the checks undertaken can vary according to 
the amount of money being borrowed, the term of the borrowing and the level of 
indebtedness the borrowing would create for the consumer. 
In this case I can see that Zopa asked Mr O for information about his net income, 
homeowner status, employment, disposable income and the purpose of the loan. It also 
looked at Mr Os credit file in relation to his level of indebtedness and how he was managing 
existing borrowing. From this information it was clear that Mr O had a high disposable 
income, a low debt to income ratio and was managing existing debt without late payments or 
defaults. So given this, I think it was reasonable for Zopa to consider it had carried out 
proportionate checks and that the loan was affordable for Mr O. I sympathise with Mr O that 
he later experienced difficulties with managing this and other debts, but Zopa can only 
consider information that was available to it at the point in time that Mr O made the 
application for the loan. Mr O also complained that Zopa didnt take his health problems into consideration when it 
applied the default to his account. Its certainly the case that this service would expect 
lenders to deal sympathetically and positively with a consumer when they let it know about 
issues such as financial difficulties and health problems. So Ive looked at whether Zopa did 
enough to support Mr O. 
I can see that Zopa sent the appropriate reminder letters to Mr O when he missed the July 
2019 repayment and subsequent repayments. At this early stage Zopa asked Mr O to 
contact it to discuss his account and suggested that an affordable short term repayment plan 
could be worked out. Zopa then issued a default notice in September 2019, following the 
third missed payment. 
At that stage Mr O hadnt informed Zopa that he was unwell  he didnt let it know until 
around October 2019 that he was undergoing tests in relation to a serious health condition. 
Its the case that Mr O didnt respond at all to the letters and emails sent to him by Zopa from 
July 2019 to October 2019. So at the point in time that Zopa issued the default, it wasnt 
aware that Mr O was unwell and so couldnt have taken this into consideration prior to 
issuing the default notice. 
Ive considered whether Zopa could have dealt differently with Mr Os account once he let it 
know he was unwell. But I dont think it needed to. From what I can see, the default was 
correctly issued and Zopa has an obligation to accurately report to credit reference agencies 
how debts are being managed by consumers, which is what it did here. 
I can also see that when Mr O contacted Zopa in October 2019 it put his account on hold for 
30 days and the hold then remained on his account for significantly longer than 30 days. 
During this time Zopa was contacting Mr O on at least a monthly basis and suggested he 
could complete an income and expenditure form with a view to working out an affordable 
repayment plan. When Zopa didnt hear from Mr O, and normal collections were resumed on 
his account, Zopa continued to check with Mr O whether further support was needed. So I 
think Zopa did what it could to offer support to Mr O once it became aware that he was 
unwell. I think its fair to say that there are limits to what a lender can do to support a 
borrower when, as was the case here, the borrower regularly doesnt respond to 
correspondence.  
I understand why Mr O is very keen to have the default removed from his credit file and I 
sympathise with him. But I could only ask Zopa to remove it if I thought it had been applied 
unfairly or in error, and Im satisfied thats not the case here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman