DRN-4074190
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide). She said it gave her a 
surrender valuation on her whole life assurance policy, but a short while later gave her 
another valuation that had dropped significantly. She said it is unacceptable that 
Countrywide are expecting her to accept a sum that has decreased so much in value. She 
would like Countrywide to pay her the difference between the two valuations along with 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mrs S held a whole life assurance policy with Countrywide. She requested details of the 
policy on 11 January 2023. This arrived in the post on 18 January 2023. Within the 
information she received, she could see the surrender value was £2000. 
Mrs S got in touch with Countrywide on 30 January 2023 to request a surrender pack. This 
was sent to her on 6 February 2023. Within this new pack, Mrs S saw that the surrender 
value given was just £500. She said this was a marked decrease on what she was originally 
quoted when she first contacted Countrywide only a few weeks previously. 
Mrs S contacted Countrywide about this. Countrywide said it had made a mistake in the 
initial letter sent to her and that her actual surrender value was £500. Mrs S said this was 
unacceptable and that she had made financial commitments off the back of the first valuation 
she received. She made a complaint to Countrywide about it.
Countrywide in response said that it sincerely apologised for what it called misleading and 
incorrect information provided in its original letter sent to Mrs S on 16 January 2023. It said 
considering the level of service Mrs S has experienced it would pay £100 as way of an 
apology for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. It said Mrs Ss surrender value on 
her policy was £500.  
Mrs S was not happy with Countrywides response and referred her complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint. She said she didnt think Countrywide needed 
to take any further action. She said Countrywide was correct in paying £500 to Mrs S for 
surrendering the policy. She could see it had also paid an additional £100 compensation for 
the error. She said she thought the offer was fair.
Mrs S was not in agreement with the investigators view. She said she was dissatisfied with 
the outcome. She said she couldnt see how the investigator could establish that she had 
been paid the correct amount. So as Mrs S is not in agreement, her complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I will explain why:
Mrs S had a whole life assurance policy with Countrywide. She received a valuation 
in January 2023 with a surrender value given as £2000. Then when she asked for a 
surrender pack in February 2023 the surrender value went down to £500. 
Countrywide has said it made a mistake and offered to pay £100 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs S isnt happy with Countrywides apology, offer of compensation or the 
explanation it has given. She said Countrywide has never provided her with any 
information to substantiate its revised valuation of her whole life assurance policy. 
She said it hasnt been transparent about the value of her policy. 
Mrs S would like Countrywide to honour the original valuation that it provided to her 
of £2000. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable if Countrywide did this. This 
is because I dont think Mrs Ss policy was ever worth £2000. I think the first 
valuation provided by Countrywide to Mrs S in January 2023, was instead a clerical 
error. It made a mistake and put the wrong figure on the letter it provided to her. I 
can see that the sum assured figure was £2000 and it looks like Countrywide has 
put the same figure in again below it, in the surrender value box. It was simply a 
mistake.
I say this because, recently our service has asked Countrywide to provide further 
information about Mrs Ss policy and its surrender value. It sent a screenshot from 
its actuary team, confirming the policy number and its surrender value. I think when I 
see this and read Countrywides explanation about what happened here, I am 
satisfied that Mrs Ss policys surrender value is what Countrywide says it is. That is 
£500. 
Countrywide said it made a mistake when it initially wrote to Mrs S and gave the 
wrong valuation. It has paid Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience that this 
has caused her. I can see that this would have caused Mrs S stress by this, as for 
three weeks or so she would have been under the misapprehension that she was 
going to receive more than she had. But I can see that Countrywide did attempt to 
correct its mistake and took responsibility by apologising and offering compensation 
for it. 
For the inconvenience of Mrs S being given incorrect information and for a short 
while, I think Countrywides payment of £100 is a fair and reasonable one. I 
understand Countrywide has already made this payment to Mrs S. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs S, and I acknowledge the strength 
of her feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have read and the 
findings I have given, I dont uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman