DRN-3347481
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund several payments 
he made using his HSBC Visa debit card.  He says he made these payments on the advice 
of someone he believed was training him to trade.  This person, Mr L says, turned out to be 
a fraudster and stole his money. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr L says:
He found out about what he thought was a trading company via online searches and 
social media.
Once contact was made with this company, he started corresponding with Timothy  
a person he thought was a well-known provider of trading courses.
He was told whilst he was still being trained, he would be assisted with trades and 
informed which accounts to transfer funds to.
When he tried to withdraw his funds: Any requests to withdraw were met with delays 
in procedures and local finance regulations, plus once I knew 100% it was a scam, all 
requests were ignored.
On 22 July 2019, Mr L sent HSBC, amongst other things, the following:
On the 15th of March 2019, I fell victim to a fraudulent Crypto Currency / Forex /
Binary Options representative from a company named [Timothy] (Real Company). Money 
was transferred from my account via Cexio and Binance exchangers by wire transfer and 
bank card payments for a total amount of £30,180 utilizing your services. I was informed by 
the real [Timothy] that I was deceived by the false representative (hereinafter).
HSBC has said the following transactions are in dispute (transaction in red is a credit):
Date Payment method Merchant Amount
15 March 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £2341.49
15 March 2019  Non-Sterling £64.39
18 March 2019 VISABUYEGLCOM 
GIBRALTAR GI  £757.50
18 March 2019  Non-Sterling £20.83
18 March 2019 VISA www.coinify.com £68.10
22 March 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £1585.36
22 March 2019  Non-Sterling £43.59
26 March 2019 VISASIMPLEX_PAYBIS 
EDINBURGH GB  £1728.06
26 March 2019  Non-Sterling £47.52
26 March 2019 VISA SIMPLEX_PAYBIS £288.77
EDINBURGH GB  
26 March 2019  Non-Sterling £7.94
26 March 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £2061.65
28 March 2019 VISA BUYEGLCOM 
GIBRALTAR GI £37.98
28 March 2019  Non-Sterling £1.04
28 March 2019 VISA BUYEGLCOM 
GIBRALTAR GI £410.20
28 March 2019  Non-Sterling £11.28
28 March 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £2061.65
2 April 2019 VISASIMPLEX_PAYBIS 
EDINBURGH GB  £2308.35
2 April 2019  Non-Sterling £63.47
2 April 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £2061.65
29 April 2019 Bill payment CEX.IO LTD £1000.00
30 April 2019 VISA BUYEGLCOM 
GIBRALTAR GI £5815.62
30 April 2019  Non-Sterling £159.92
30 April 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £2061.65
2 May 2019 Bill payment CEX.IO LTD £2200.00
6 May 2019 Bill payment (credit) CEX.IO LTD £2150.00
7 May 2019 VISA BUYEGLCOM 
GIBRALTAR GI £200.21
7 May 2019  Non-Sterling £5.50
7 May 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £2061.65
14 May 2019 VISA cexio London GB  £1133.91
  Total amount 
debited: £30,609.28
Total less credits: £28,459.28
Mr L asked HSBC to try to recover his money from the various merchants set out above.  As 
this did not happen, Mr L raised a complaint which was referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  Although his figures for the disputed 
transactions differed slightly to those HSBC set out, he concluded that fraud triggers applied 
to Mr Ls £2,061.65 payment to Cexio on 26 March 2019.  He argued that there was no 
evidence to show HSBC provided Mr L with any meaningful warnings or gave him other 
reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he made.  He considered that this was a 
missed opportunity for HSBC to intervene, so he directed it to refund Mr L his money starting 
from the payment mentioned.
HSBC did not accept the investigators findings.  In the interest of conciseness, I will repeat 
HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully summarised its key points in the conclusions 
section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do not
accept that we should be held responsible for [Mr Ls] loss for the following reasons:
The adjudicator inappropriately adopts a template response for binary options 
scams when this case does not involve binary options;
There is no evidence that any of the beneficiaries that received the Payments were 
operating or involved in any scam;
The adjudicator concludes that we were required to intervene on the basis of a 
payment sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency platform regulated by GFSC, making the FCA regulation considerations irrelevant;
The adjudicators conclusion on causation is unsupported by evidence and simply his 
own speculation; and
The adjudicators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed and 
unsupportable. [Mr Ls] losses were directly referable to his failure to carry out 
appropriate research and his actions were objectively careless. The general principle 
that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions should be applied in the 
present case.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 17 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld in part.  
However, I am of the view that fraud triggers applied to a payment Mr L made which was 
later than the one the investigator relied on.  I will explain why below.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr L for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), in force at the time.  This is because 
they were made by Mr L using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by HSBC.  
These must be regarded as authorised payments even if Mr L believes he was the victim of 
a sophisticated scam. 
As a starting position, banks are under an obligation to follow their customers instructions. 
Banks have a duty to make payments or accommodate cash withdrawal requests correctly 
and promptly so that legitimate payments are made correctly.  So, consumers who authorise 
a payment, even where that turns out to be fraud related or they were tricked into doing so, 
start off on the back-foot when it comes to getting that payment returned to them because 
the bank was following a valid instruction.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something was not right 
or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making 
the payment.  So, I have looked into what this means for this case and whether HSBC 
should have done more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
The investigator concluded that fraud triggers applied to Mr Ls £2,061.65 payment to Cexio 
on 26 March 2019.  However, I am not persuaded they applied at this stage.  I am of the 
view fraud triggers applied to Mr Ls £5,815.62 payment to BUYEGLCOM GIBRALTAR on 
30 April 2019  particularly given the significant amount involved for a single transaction.
Having considered this together with the particular circumstances of this case, I am satisfied 
there were reasonable grounds for HSBC to suspect fraud or a scam, and therefore justify 
an intervention. In light of the amount of the payment involved in relation to how Mr L 
normally operated his account, I think that HSBC ought to have identified the risk of harm.  In 
other words, this was a highly unusual and uncharacteristic pattern of spending for Mr L 
compared with their recent history on the account  which indicated that something untoward 
might be happening.  For example, when reviewing Mr Ls bank statements, there is nothing to suggest he was willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or 
gambling.
Overall, it would have been reasonable for HSBC to have properly questioned Mr L before 
processing the payment in order to satisfy itself that all was well.
Causation
I am satisfied that, had HSBC identified the payment(s) as unusual and suspicious, asked 
relevant questions of the Mr L it would have been apparent that the Mr L was falling victim to 
a scam.  In other words, but for HSBCs failure to make further enquiries, it would have been 
on actual notice that Mr L was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. 
If HSBC had asked Mr L what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had originated 
from his broker, Timothy, i.e. the fraudster. So, whilst HSBC may have known that Mr L was 
sending money to a legitimate crypto trader, BUYEGLCOM GIBRALTAR, I think it still should 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about the 
increasing number of scams associated with fraudsters selling what is made out to be 
cryptocurrency.
After all, at the time, there was information in the public domain  which a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks associated with 
crypto trading, including many warnings of potential fraud.  For example, the FCA and Action 
Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. Regulated businesses 
ought reasonably to take notice of such insight.  By the time Mr L made the payment 
concerned on 30 April 2019, cryptocurrency scams had risen greatly in frequency and its 
reasonable to conclude that banks, such as HSBC, had also had time to digest these 
warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. 
Nevertheless, even if a intervention by the bank would have identified that the payment was 
going to Mr Ls own account with BUYEGLCOM GIBRALTAR, the conversation should not 
have stopped only on the basis that the money appeared to be going somewhere safe and 
within the consumers control.  
I say this because, by the time Mr L made this payment, I think HSBC had or ought to have 
had a good enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify 
the risk of harm from fraud. Including, that the consumer often first purchases the 
cryptoasset and moves the money on to the fraudster under the assumption theyre moving 
the money into their own wallet.  
With this in mind, I would have expected HSBC to have asked questions about the context 
and true purpose of the payment.  While it is not up to our service to dictate which questions 
a bank should ask, HSBC could have, for example, asked how Mr L had been contacted, 
whether he had parted with personal details in order to open a trading account, whether the 
investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual, or advertised on social media 
etc.  all of which apply in this case.  These are all typical features of cryptocurrency scams 
 and form part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk 
of a prominent type of scam. 
Although there is no reason to doubt that Mr L would have explained what he was doing, I 
accept that it was possible that he might not have revealed enough information to lead the 
bank to understand whether he was at risk of financial harm from this particular type of fraud 
(or any type for that matter).  I cant know for certain what would have happened.  However, I 
reach my conclusions not based on mere possibilities, but rather on what I find most 
probable to have happened in the circumstances.  And on balance, Im satisfied Mr L would 
have likely shared information which aligned with the hallmarks of this type of scam.  I say this because when our investigator asked Mr L what made him think he had fallen victim to a 
scam, and what he did when he became aware  Mr L said:
They kept delaying my withdraw claims, plus their promises of funds being sent or giving 
me access to accounts and information were subject to delays or excuses, which raised my 
concerns. My initial reaction was a little panic, then I started looking for help, with my bank, 
the internet and anyone who would listen. following some advice, I started recording 
everything I could, like screen prints of accounts and dates, copy of conversations with 
scammer, saving his contact information.
In light of this, I think Mr Ls losses were foreseeable to HSBC despite the payment on the 
face of it not leaving the Mr Ls control.  And I am satisfied that, had the HSBC, having 
identified the payment as unusual and suspicious, asked relevant questions of Mr L, it would 
have been apparent that the he was falling victim to a cryptocurrency scam.  In other words, 
but for the HSBCs failure to make further enquiries, it would have been on actual notice that 
Mr L was going to suffer financial harm from fraud.  
Further, even if they had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would 
have alerted Mr L to the common issues arising in relation to so-called crypto currency 
brokers.  Which, in turn, would probably have led them to second guess their supposed 
brokers credentials, i.e. whether Timothy was in fact the prominent individual he was 
claiming to be.  The result of which, would likely have stopped Mr L in his tracks. 
So, in any case, Mr Ls losses, though not arising from the initial transfers, ought to have 
been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, HSBC.  Therefore, and taking into 
account what Is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, I am satisfied HSBC can be 
held responsible for the loss Mr L has suffered  that is, starting from Mr Ls £5,815.62 
payment to BUYEGLCOM GIBRALTAR on 30 April 2019
Finally, I accept that, when simply executing authorised payments, banks such as HSBC do 
not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. 
However, the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised 
investment advice  so I do not think the bank would have acted out of line, had it warned Mr 
L along the lines that Ive described.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions. I have 
duly considered whether Mr L should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence.  However, in this case, I do not think Mr L could have foreseen the risk that the 
company they were dealing with was a scam and simply did not appreciate what they were 
doing or the consequences of their actions.  Moreover, I do not place too much weight on 
general but arcane information in the public domain, because of the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers. 
All in all, I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion and Mr L was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster.
Chargeback
For the avoidance of doubt, I have also thought about whether the chargeback process was 
an option for Mr L.  As the scammer was not a party to the payment concerned, Mr L could 
not have a valid claim against the legitimate company paid.  This is because the legitimate 
company provided the services as intended, which was to purchase the cryptoasset.  The 
subsequent transfer to a wallet would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim, so I do not 
think Mr L had a legitimate chargeback claim. 
Disputed transaction amountsI have considered the disputed transactions our investigator set out in his assessment.  In 
doing so, I can see that they differ slightly to the figures HSBC has set out in its submissions.  
Having considered Mr Ls bank statements, I am satisfied that the amounts HSBC has 
provided are correct (set out in the background section).  Therefore, I will be relying on these 
figures when dealing with the below section.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L responded to say he agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.  However, HSBC did not respond.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr L agreed with my provisional findings, but HSBC did not respond  I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I 
therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc:
Pay Mr L all the money he lost, less the amount CEX.IO LTD credited to his account 
(that would mean £11,488.46);
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ls account until 
the date of settlement; and
If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr L with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman