DRN-3207452
The complaint
Mr S complains that a member of staff of Barclays Bank UK PLC dropped a phone call in the 
middle of a call with Mr S and didnt return it. Mr S wants an apology and £200 
compensation.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with Barclays. Mr S says that he was in the midst conversation with a 
Barclays adviser when the phone call dropped, Mr S had to call Barclays back, speak to 
another adviser and repeat the conversation. Mr S raised a complaint with Barclays. 
Barclays apologised and said that it provided feedback to the adviser. Our investigator 
thought that Barclays had acted fairly and didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr S disagreed saying that as he was inconvenienced, he should be compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S makes a complaint about making a particular call that was dropped and not returned. 
Mr S says thats unacceptable behaviour. I dont know what the circumstances were that 
prevented the adviser returning Mr Ss call and I acknowledge that there would be a degree 
of inconvenience suffered by Mr S in having to make a further call and speak to another 
adviser. Barclays has upheld the complaint, apologised, and provided feedback to the 
employee. Mr S feels he should also receive financial compensation. 
I dont agree. Whilst I accept that Mr S suffered some inconvenience by having to phone 
back my view is that such inconvenience was minimal. Mr S was able to resume a 
conversation with another Barclays adviser shortly afterwards and presumably got the 
information he required with only a little delay. Mr S had to repeat some information but 
thats not unusual and doesnt seem to me to be an inconvenience that had such an impact 
that it would require compensation. I note that in his complaint form Mr S doesnt even refer 
to what the conversation was about which to my mind indicates that it held very little 
significance for him. I agree with our investigator that the apology from Barclays and its 
providing feedback to its staff represents a reasonable response to this complaint. So, for 
these reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman
