DRN-3033718
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) has 
declined her request for a refund.
What happened
Mrs Ms son wished to work overseas and needed a visa. It is Mrs Ms position that she 
contracted directly with a supplier who I will call F to obtain the relevant visa. Mrs M 
indicates that ultimately F failed to make the relevant application to apply for the visa. Mrs M 
made payments to F using her credit card with Barclaycard. At the very least, Mrs M wants 
all of her money back. Mrs M complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard suggested it had no valid basis to give her a refund itself. Further, it could not 
apply on her behalf to try and get her money back under a scheme known as chargeback 
because her complaint came in too late for it to use this process. That said, it agreed it had 
not handled her complaint in a professional manner and therefore it credited £100 to her 
account and apologised.
Dissatisfied, Mrs M complained to this service.
One of investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint. Our investigator did not recommend that 
Mrs Ms complaint ought to be upheld.
It appears Barclaycard accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mrs M did not. In 
summary, Mrs M repeated her previous stance and provided further details about why she 
considered she is entitled to a refund.
Mrs M indicated that she wanted an ombudsman to take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M seeks to rely on the rights she suggests she has in relation to this complaint under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). The general effect of Section 75 
is that if Mrs M has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier 
that is F, she can also bring a like claim against Barclaycard provided certain conditions are 
met. 
Before I go any further, I think its important to set out my role in this complaint. In 
considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome 
of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to 
resolve Mrs Ms complaint, Ive taken Section 75 into account. But that doesnt mean Im 
obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs M pursued a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. This service is an informal alternative to 
the courts.
As I mention above in order to bring a successful claim under Section 75 certain conditions 
need to be met. One of these conditions is that there has to be a relevant debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship in place. That is in relation to the contract that Mrs M complains about 
she has to be the debtor, Barclaycard the creditor and F the supplier. Mrs M says this 
relationship exists, Barclaycard says it does not.  I think there is no such relationship here, 
please let me explain why.
The crux of this complaint is who is the contracting party with F. In summary, Mrs M 
suggests she is the contracting party. Specifically, that she entered into the contract directly 
with F, for the benefit of her son. Mrs M points out she paid F not her son using her 
Barclaycard credit card. She suggests that by making these payments she contracted with F. 
Moreover, she tells us that F had to get her permission to take payment from her credit card. 
Each time a payment was due she had to sign a one-time payment authorisation form. In 
Mrs Ms view each of these forms operated as a separate contract between her and F. This 
in turn she suggests means there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in place. 
Further, she indicates that since her son did not pay F, he cant be the contracting party. On 
the other hand, in brief, Barclaycard suggests that the contract was between Mrs Ms son 
and F as demonstrated by the fact that Fs invoice is addressed to Mrs Ms son.
I think when trying to establish who contracted with who, in the first instance I should be 
guided by the contractual documents. I have seen both a client services agreement from F 
and the invoice from F.
In principle there is nothing in law that prevents party A making a contract with party B for 
the benefit of party C. But that is not what I see when I look at the contractual documents. 
The copy of the client services agreement I have seen is unsigned, but I think it is significant 
that F sent it to Mrs Ms son not her. I would have expected F to have sent such a document 
directly to its client i.e. the contracting party. Further the wording of the service agreement 
underlines that because of the nature of the obligations under the contract it was made 
between Mrs Ms son and F. For example, the service agreement requires F to supply 
services that could only have been supplied to Mrs Ms son and he has to make 
representations and warrants that only he could have made personally. 
Moreover, if the contract was made with Mrs M then it does not make sense that Fs invoice 
is addressed to her son. Conversely, it makes perfect sense for F to have sent an invoice for 
its services to her son if he was the client.
Ive also taken a look at the wider the circumstances of this complaint to see what light these 
might shed on this point. Amongst other documents, Ive seen correspondence between Mrs 
Ms son and F. In the course of the correspondence, Mrs Ms son gives instructions to F and 
chases it for progress. All of this indicates to me that he was the client. Further, at one-point 
Mrs Ms son lets F know he is going to take legal action against F for what he sees as 
breaches of contract, if he wasnt Fs client, hed have not been able to do this. And even Mrs M indicates that part of the loss which arises from what she also views as the non-
performance of the contract is her sons loss of prospective employment. Her son could not 
have any loss flowing from any alleged breach of the contract with F if he was not a party to 
that contract.
I dont find it surprising that F needed Mrs Ms written permission to take payment from her 
credit card, she is the account holder. But that does not make her a contracting party too in 
relation to the services contract with F. Rather I find she merely discharged her sons 
obligation to pay under the contract he had with F. Further consideration did pass from Mrs 
Ms son to F albeit Mrs M provided the consideration on her sons behalf.
Barclaycards records show it did consider raising a chargeback. That is what I would have 
expected. I see no reason to doubt its records on this point and Mrs M does not appear to 
dispute this. The chargeback process allows credit card users to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if there's a problem that is covered by the chargeback rules, with goods or services 
paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed 
method of getting a refund. The process is limited to specific criteria.  However, I am 
satisfied that a chargeback could not have succeeded as it was out of time. 
The focus of Mrs Ms complaint does not appear to be the level of customer service she 
received from Barclaycard. But it has acknowledged its shortcomings here in that it did not 
respond quickly enough to her. It has apologised and paid her £100 I think this is appropriate 
redress. 
In the circumstances, for the individual reasons I have set out above I have no fair or 
reasonable basis for finding that Barclaycard acted inappropriately here. It follows I have no 
proper basis for asking it to take any further action.
I can well understand if Mrs M is going to be disappointed with my decision, but my decision 
ends what we, in trying to resolve her dispute with Barclaycard informally, can do for her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman