DRN-3641124
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life Services UK Limited (Aviva) sent him incorrect information 
about a Deferred Pension Annuity. He said this led him to take £50,000 of tax-free cash from 
another pension, which he wouldnt have taken if hed not received the incorrect information. 
What happened
Aviva wrote to Mr P in June 2021 about a Deferred Replacement Pension Annuity in relation 
to a pension hed built up with a former employer. The letter stated that Mr P would receive a 
pension of around £12,000 each year and that it would start to be paid on his 60th birthday, 
which was later that year.
Mr P said he asked his financial adviser for advice given the information in the letter. He said 
he then decided to take a £50,000 tax-free cash withdrawal from a pension held with another 
provider. He did this in July 2021, a little over two weeks after getting Avivas letter.
Mr P didnt hear anything further from Aviva about the pension itd written to him about so he 
contacted it in November 2021 about the Deferred Replacement Annuity. 
Aviva told Mr P thered been an error. And that he wasnt entitled to any further pension 
benefits as hed previously transferred the benefits out. Aviva said it would find out more 
information.
Aviva called Mr P in December 2021. It said itd been told by the previous administrators of 
his pension that he no longer had any benefits under the scheme in question. And that hed 
transferred his benefits out of the scheme in May 2019. Aviva said it hadnt been told that 
hed transferred out his benefits, which is why it had issued the information itd sent him by 
mistake. Aviva also wrote to Mr P to confirm its response.
Mr P complained to Aviva about the mistake. He said hed decided to take £50,000 of tax-
free cash from another pension based on the information Aviva had sent him about the 
Deferred Replacement Annuity.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 15 December 2021. It didnt uphold it. It 
said it had acted in line with the instructions and information it had received from the 
previous scheme administrators. And that it had only found out after it had written to Mr P 
that hed transferred his benefits out of the scheme in May 2019. Therefore he wasnt 
entitled to a further benefit under the plan.
Unhappy, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. He said hed had to reassess his 
pension with his financial adviser since hed taken the £50,000 tax-free cash withdrawal from 
another pension. And that he wouldve left that invested if Aviva hadnt sent the incorrect 
information. He wanted Aviva to replace the £50,000 hed withdrawn.
Our investigator asked Mr P what hed done with the £50,000 tax-free cash he withdrew. 
And if any of it was left. He also asked him who had handled the transfer of his pension in 
May 2019. And if it was the same adviser he used now.
Mr P told our investigator that hed used some of the money to carry out renovations on his 
house. And that hed also bought a car and had a family holiday. He said he had £10,000 left 
and that he intended to use it for further renovations. Mr P also said that hed used different 
advisors for the May 2019 transfer out and the more recent advice.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Aviva had caused Mr P 
a loss of expectation when itd written to him about a pension he wasnt entitled to. And that 
it should pay him £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him. 
Aviva said it agreed with our investigators findings. 
Mr P asked our investigator to explain how hed arrived at the compensation hed suggested. 
Our investigator said that this service never asks a business to pay out benefits which 
werent ever due. He also said that although Mr Ps retirement plans had needed to change, 
hed benefited from the £50,000 tax-free cash withdrawal as hed carried out a lot of work on 
his home. He said that this service would only make an award for the distress and 
inconvenience Aviva had caused. And that he felt that £400 was a reasonable amount under 
the circumstances.
I understand that Aviva sent Mr P a cheque for £400 in August 2022, but that the cheque 
was in the wrong name. Mr P told this service that this had caused further frustration. 
Our investigator said this was a separate issue from the original complaint. He told Mr P that 
he could choose to raise a further complaint about the incorrect cheque. But that it might not 
be one that could be referred to this service as it solely related to customer service. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that £400 
compensation is reasonable under the circumstances. I know this will be disappointing for Mr 
P. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Aviva doesnt dispute that it gave Mr P incorrect information about a Deferred Replacement 
Annuity. It said that the previous administrators had transferred the value of Mr Ps pension 
out in May 2019, but didnt inform it. So that when it sent Mr P information about the pension 
in June 2021 it wasnt aware of the transfer out. It said that it only became aware of the issue 
in October 2021. And that it investigated the situation and told Mr P what had happened at 
that point. But it didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint as it didnt think it was responsible for the 
error.
Mr P said that he had various pensions with various companies over his working life. And 
that hed transferred some of these pensions into a private pension scheme in 2019, using a 
financial adviser that he no longer used for advice. He said hed sent the paperwork Aviva 
had sent him in June 2021 informing him of an almost £12,000 annual pension to his (new) 
financial adviser. And that hed been told that this would make a significant difference to his 
pension payments. So he decided to withdraw a tax-free lump sum of £50,000. 
Mr P felt hed been misled, misinformed and financially let down by Aviva. And that he 
wouldnt have taken the large tax-free lump sum from his pension if hed not been given the incorrect information. He also said Avivas error had caused him to have to change his 
retirement plans.  
I need to decide if Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when it didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
And if it didnt, whether it should pay him any compensation.
I first reviewed the information Aviva sent to Mr P in June 2021. This stated that the trustees 
of Mr Ps former employers pension fund had taken out a policy with Aviva to replace the 
benefits to which Mr P was previously entitled under the scheme. The letter also stated:
Do I need to do anything?
Please read the policy document and satisfy yourself that the details are correct. You 
should keep it in a safe place as you may need to refer to it at a later date. If you find 
an error, please return it to me.
And also said that if Mr P had any questions, he should call Aviva. 
Mr P wasnt in fact entitled to any further benefits from his former employers scheme. Hed 
transferred them out in May 2019. 
Mr P told this service that hed worked for a company for over 27 years and that it had 
changed hands five times with various changes to the pension schemes. And that he'd also 
worked for another employer for 10 years where hed had various pension schemes. He said 
hed asked a previous financial advisor to investigate all his existing pensions and to advise 
him on which pension he should move. But he didnt remember which ones had been 
transferred and which ones hadnt.
I do understand how difficult it can be to keep track of past pensions, especially where there 
are a number of former plans with the same employer. But I agree with our investigator that 
theres a duty on Mr P and his financial adviser to know which pensions were still in place. In 
this case, I consider that even if Mr P didnt know that the June 2021 letter from Aviva 
related to a pension which hed transferred out, he couldve asked his financial adviser to 
check. I understand that this was a relatively large transfer so I consider that Mr P and his 
adviser shouldve known that it had taken place. 
Even if Mr P hadnt been sure which of his pensions hed transferred, I consider that he 
couldve looked into the information included in the June 2021 letter from Aviva in more 
detail before hed decided to take it at face value and change his retirement plans. From 
what Ive seen, the letter clearly said that Mr P should satisfy himself that the details the 
letter included were correct. It also said that Mr P should call Aviva if he had any questions. 
Overall, although Aviva could also have carried out further checks before it wrote to Mr P 
about benefits he no longer had, I consider that Mr P shouldve been able to identify that the 
pension the June 2021 letter referenced had already been transferred out. Had he done so, 
he wouldnt have taken the £50,000 tax-free cash or had to change his retirement plans. 
Therefore I dont consider that Aviva should be held responsible for Mr Ps decision to take 
£50,000 in tax-free cash from one of his other pensions. Or for the change to his retirement 
plans. 
Im also not persuaded that Mr P has suffered a financial loss. I say this because Mr P 
wasnt entitled to any further benefits from the pension scheme in question  hed already 
taken them as a transfer out in May 2019. And because he told this service that hed used 
most of the £50,000 he withdrew to carry out renovations on his house, buy a car and go on 
holiday. And that he planned to use the rest for further renovations. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr P didnt need to carry out the renovations. So I consider that he has 
benefited from the withdrawal. 
Despite my belief that both Mr P and his financial adviser could reasonably have been 
expected to know whether the pension Aviva was writing to him about in June 2021 had 
been transferred or not, I am satisfied that Mr Ps expectations were raised when he 
received that letter. And that Mr P wouldve been disappointed to find out that the information 
in the letter wasnt correct. I say this especially because hed already made a tax-free cash 
withdrawal on the basis of the information in that letter. So Ive gone on to consider what 
compensation Aviva should pay Mr P for the distress and inconvenience its June 2021 letter 
caused him.
Distress and inconvenience
I can see that the information in the June 2021 letter led Mr P to believe that he would 
receive more pension than hed previously been expecting. And that he then made an 
irreversible tax-free withdrawal from another pension just over two weeks after receiving that 
letter. So I can see that Mr Ps expectations were raised by the information Aviva sent. I can 
also see that it wouldve been distressing to find out he wasnt actually entitled to any extra 
pension. Mr P has also told this service that he had to change his retirement plans. 
As I noted earlier, I cant fairly ask Aviva to honour the error it made. But I can ask it to 
compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience the error caused. From what Ive seen, 
there were around four months when Mr P was expecting to receive a greater pension. 
Overall, I agree with our investigator that £400 compensation is reasonable under the 
circumstances here. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr P hasnt lost out financially due to 
Avivas error. But I uphold the complaint, as I also consider that Avivas error caused Mr P a 
loss of expectation. I consider that £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
the error caused is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Life Services UK Limited to pay Mr P £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. If its already paid this amount, it need take no further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint. I require Aviva Life Services UK 
Limited to take the steps outlined in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman