DRN-4237690
The complaint
Mrs D complains that MBNA Limited provided poor service when she was trying to recover 
funds sent to an incorrect account.
What happened
In June 2022, Mrs D made a balance transfer from one credit card to another. When doing 
so, she accidently submitted incorrect account information and the payment of almost 
£5,000 was credited to the MBNA account of an unknown recipient. 
When she realised her mistake in July 2022, Mrs D informed her bank and MBNA in order to 
recover the funds. 
MBNA initially investigated the wrong payment. It said there was some confusion and it 
thought Mrs D was reporting a payment which had left her MBNA account. This delayed a 
complaint being raised. 
Once MBNA spoke to Mrs D, it realised the misunderstanding. And by this time, Mrs Ds 
bank had also been in touch with MBNA with a recall request. MBNA contacted its account 
holder who received the funds incorrectly, but they didnt respond and closed their account.
Mrs D complained that the delay in MBNA taking action significantly reduced her chances of 
recovering the money. MBNA acknowledges that its service fell short of what she could 
reasonably expect, and it paid £100 compensation into Mrs Ds account. But Mrs D didnt 
think this went far enough to put things right, so she brought her complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator didnt think MBNA couldve done anything more to recover the funds. And 
she was satisfied the compensation paid fairly reflected the delay in logging the complaint 
and the misunderstanding of the circumstances. So she didnt think MBNA needed to do 
anything more to put things right.
As Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that there was a delay in contacting the recipient regarding the funds that 
had incorrectly credited their account. This was due to a combination of things. 
Firstly, Mrs D didnt realise herself that shed made a mistake until over three weeks after 
making the payment. Then, once shed reported her error, MBNA investigated the wrong 
payment. And the sending bank didnt contact MBNA with a recall request until another four 
weeks later.
Mrs D says MBNAs slow reaction reduced the chances of her money being recovered. But I 
dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
Because the funds had already credited the recipients account by the time the mistake was 
reported, MBNA wouldve always required the recipients cooperation to recover the money. 
This wasnt forthcoming. And Im not persuaded that had the request been made any 
sooner, the outcome wouldve been any different.
Whilst I have sympathy for Mrs Ds position given the amount of money shes lost as a result 
of this, Im satisfied that MBNA processed the payment based on the account details it was 
given. And it made reasonable efforts to recover the funds, despite this being unsuccessful. 
That said, MBNAs service did fall short of what Id expect, and Ive no doubt this 
misunderstanding wouldve caused Mrs D some frustration at a time when she was already 
distressed. So its right that compensation is paid and Im satisfied £100 is fair in the 
circumstances based on what went wrong and the impact this wouldve had. 
As MBNA has paid compensation to that effect, I dont find that it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman