The complaint
Miss M complains about the service she received from TSB Bank plc in relation to a bank 
transfer.
 What happened
In July 2018, Miss M called TSB to arrange the transfer of £100 to a new recipient. This was 
to pay the deposit needed to secure a solicitor on behalf of a family member. She said she 
explained to the person on the phone how important it was, and that the money needed to 
get there urgently.  
However, the TSB employee who processed the transfer made an error and the funds 
werent received. The following day, the funds were re-deposited back into Miss Ms 
account. Miss M says that as the solicitor refused to accept a further TSB transfer attempt, 
she had to send the cash to her other brother, so he could arrange the transfer instead. 
Miss M complained to TSB. She said she was unhappy with the service and said shed lost 
£150 of earnings while trying to rectify their error. TSB accepted it had caused the error, 
apologised and credited her account with £375. This was made up of £325 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused and £50 to cover any expenses. It also said it would consider 
loss of earnings if she could evidence the loss. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She understood why Miss M was so 
annoyed by what had happened but thought TSB had done enough to say sorry. Miss M 
didnt agree. She doesnt think the amount of compensation reflects the seriousness of what 
may have happened if she hadnt been able to make other arrangements to transfer the 
money to the solicitor. She also says that her adopted mother was seriously ill at the time 
and passed away shortly after, so this was additional stress she didnt need. The complaint 
was therefore passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I understand why Miss M is so unhappy with what has happened. She says she specifically 
told the call handler several times how important the transfer was. She has explained to us 
that there was a strict deadline involved so it was important the solicitor got the money as 
soon as possible.
DRN-1167910TSB have accepted it made an error  it acknowledged that the call handler inputted 
incorrect information which resulted in the transfer being returned to Miss Ms account the 
following day. It has apologised for the error, provided feedback to the call handler and 
compensated Miss M a total of £375 to cover distress and inconvenience and any expenses 
she may have incurred. It also gave Miss M the opportunity to provide evidence of the loss of 
earnings so it could consider this too, although Miss M has said she is unable to provide this. 
I think these are appropriate steps for TSB to take.
Ive thought about the impact the error had on Miss M, particularly the added stress this 
wouldve caused at an already stressful time in her life. Im sorry to hear that Miss Ms 
adopted mother was also ill during this period and passed away shortly afterwards and can 
appreciate what a difficult time this must have been generally for Miss M. But Im pleased to 
see the solicitor did manage to receive the money from her brother and was able to take on 
the case. While I recognise that TSBs error has led to a great deal of stress and frustration 
for Miss M, I think its done enough to rectify its error. 
I acknowledge Miss Ms comments regarding the seriousness of the situation and what 
couldve happened if the solicitor hadnt been able to receive the money at all. But we are 
only able to consider what did actually happen, rather than hypothetical situations. My role 
isnt to punish businesses, but to ensure consumers are put back into the position that they 
shouldve been in all along if the error hadnt happened. As the solicitor did receive the 
money and TSB accepted its error and compensated appropriately for it, I dont think I can 
reasonably ask TSB to do or pay anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plcs offer is fair. As it has already paid the compensation, 
it doesnt need to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Sarah Green
Ombudsman