DRN-3149468
The complaint
Mr P complains about advice he was given by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in 1997 to 
take out a General Trust Personal Equity Plan (PEP). 
He is represented by a claims management company (CMC). It says the plan posed too 
much risk for Mr P given his circumstances, as he was retired and had limited disposable 
income. The CMC also says Mr Ps future needs and his potential need to access the capital 
werent considered and the recommended product lacked diversification. 
What happened
Mr P met with an adviser in 1997 and was recommended a General Trust PEP plan.  He 
invested £6,000 in the PEP and maintained it until 2003 when it was fully surrendered. He 
received slightly less back then he had invested. 
In 2020 a CMC acting on his behalf complained to Barclays. It said Mr Ps circumstances, 
future needs and objectives werent properly assessed. The CMC said Mr P was advised to 
take too much risk and as he was advised to invest in one single fund, it didnt provide any 
diversification, thereby increasing the risk.
The CMC said Mr P had a low level of disposable income and it therefore should have been 
clear that there was a potential need to access his capital during the term of the investment.
Barclays acknowledged it hadnt dealt with Mr Ps complaint promptly and paid £150 
compensation to him for the trouble and inconvenience caused by the delay. But it didnt 
uphold Mr Ps complaint about the advice he had received. 
Barclays said the recommendation to invest at medium risk was suitable given Mr Ps 
circumstances, as presented at the time of the advice. It said it was satisfied that Mr Ps 
circumstances, future needs and objectives had been assessed by the adviser. 
Barclays said Mr P was prepared to set aside a proportion of his capital and was looking for 
scope for greater capital growth and income than he was currently receiving from his 
savings. It also said  Mr P retained the majority of his capital and that he had a stable 
income and monthly disposable income. So, it said it wasnt unreasonable for Mr P to look to 
alternatives to deposit-based savings, to try to mitigate the future effect of inflation. 
The CMC disagreed and referred Mr Ps complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
Barclays had considered Mr Ps financial position including his income and assets, his 
attitude to risk, his objectives and how long he was able to invest for, whilst also considering 
any known future changes to his circumstances. 
Having considered Mr Ps circumstances and objectives the investigator felt that he was 
willing to take some risk even though he was a new investor. The investigator was satisfied 
that Mr P could afford to take a medium risk approach and he noted that after investing he 
was left with £24,000, which was 80% of his available funds. The investigator considered the 
risk posed by the investment and concluded that the level of risk that Mr P was exposed to 
wasnt unsuitable. 
The investigator noted what the CMC had said about Mr Ps intention to use part of his 
retirement funds to set up his own business, but he wasnt persuaded that the adviser had 
been made aware of this. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said it didnt accept that the level 
of risk posed by the investment was appropriate given that Mr P had an outstanding 
mortgage and was in early retirement. 
The CMC noted that Mr P was receiving  £725 per month from his pension and his 
expenditure was £700 per month. It said it was also recorded that Mr P was receiving an 
additional £75 per month income but it was the CMCs understanding that this income was 
from interest on his savings. It said the withdrawal of a significant chunk of this to invest in 
the PEP would therefore reduce this amount, leaving very little income over expenditure, and 
no scope for additional expenditure or for savings to be accrued.
It reiterated its view that the  investment was unsuitable and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P was in his early fifties and recently retired when he met with an adviser from Barclays 
in 1997.
As the sale took place more than twenty years ago there is limited information available. 
A fact find and personal review was completed which recorded Mr Ps circumstances and 
objectives and the recommendations made.  It was recorded that Mr P held about £30,000 
on deposit and had a retirement income of £725 per month with an additional income of £75 
from bank interest. Once Mr Ps liabilities were deducted this left him with about £100 per 
month in disposable income. Mr P was married but his wifes financial information wasnt 
included in the fact find. 
Mr P and his wife jointly owned their home and had an endowment mortgage which had 11 
years remaining and about £22,000 outstanding. They also had a corresponding endowment 
policy for £22,000. 
It was recorded that Mr P was interested in savings and investments and that was the only 
area of interest that had been selected. The adviser identified other needs such as mortgage 
and critical illness cover but it was noted that Mr P was not interested in pursuing those at 
that time. The point of sale documentation also recorded that Mr P was looking for scope to 
achieve greater capital growth and income than he was receiving from his savings.   
So, I am satisfied that the adviser identified a need for Mr P to try to achieve some income 
and capital growth on some of his capital and that Mr P was interested in products which had 
the potential to do so. 
I note that Mr P met with the adviser on two occasions, so I think there was some 
opportunity for him to consider what had been discussed, his objectives and the level of risk 
he wanted to take. 
Attitude to risk 
Mr Ps representative says the recommended PEP invested in a medium risk fund was too 
risky for Mr P. I  take into account that Mr P didnt have any previous investment experience. 
So, I have carefully considered whether the fund the PEP was invested in, posed too much 
risk for him. 
As I have said, there is limited information from the point of sale, including the make-up of the fund at that time, but it appears to have been invested mainly in UK equities. I also note 
it appears to have been made up of UK equities in a number of different sectors. While 
equities do, of course, pose some risk, UK equities tend to be regarded as less risky than 
international equities, where there is an additional risk because changes in foreign exchange 
rates can have a negative effect on the investment. 
I note the review document completed at the time contained a section asking about Mr Ps 
attitude to risk and the medium risk category was selected.    
I am satisfied on balance that Mr P was looking to try to achieve some growth on his capital 
and possibly some income. And I note that the point of sale documentation recorded Mr P 
was interested in an investment term of five years, or longer.
I consider Mr P had a guaranteed, stable income albeit it was his retirement income, so he 
didnt have the option to increase that income. And according to the information he gave the 
adviser at the time, that left him with some disposable income each month. I note Mr P held 
£30,000 on deposit and the £6,000 invested represented 20% of that capital. So, I think that 
still left sufficient capital for Mr P to earn some interest which he could use to supplement his 
income. 
I appreciate that Mr Ps representative has explained that Mr P received a lump sum on 
retirement and has said that he had planned to use some of that capital lump sum for a 
business venture. However, nothing was recorded at the time to indicate that intention was 
communicated to the adviser. And I note Mr P signed the point of sale documentation 
confirming that he had been given time to read the form, that its contents were accurate and 
that he understood if he chose not to give certain information, the adviser wouldnt have a 
complete understanding of his financial situation, and the advice might be adversely affected 
as a result.  So, I consider it more likely than not that the adviser wasnt aware of  Mr Ps 
intention to use, at least, some of his capital in the future, in order to start a business.  
Im also satisfied that Mr P was still left with a substantial proportion of his available capital 
which he could access, or use to generate some income, as he had been doing. And I note 
Mr P was able to maintain the plan for about six years which would suggest he still had 
sufficient available capital remaining for his needs after the investment had been made. 
So, I dont consider that investing that amount, over the medium term, at that level of risk, 
posed too much risk for Mr P.  I also think it met his objective of trying to achieve some 
growth on his available capital. I dont think it was unreasonable to look at other options, 
such as the PEP, to achieve this, given Mr Ps capital was all held on deposit.
I also note that the PEP was a tax wrapper so the investment into the PEP also had the 
benefit of being tax efficient. 
I have taken into account what has been said by Mr Ps representative about what he 
describes as a  lack of diversification. However, I consider this was a relatively small 
proportion of Mr Ps capital with the rest being held on deposit, so I think there was some 
diversification of his overall portfolio there. In addition, the fund was invested over a number 
of different UK equities.  I dont consider therefore that investing in one sole fund here meant 
the investment was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
Summary 
Overall, I dont consider on balance that the PEP recommended to Mr P was unsuitable  
taking into account his circumstances and objectives at the time. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC for the reasons outlined 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman