DRN-2433919
The complaint
Mr M complains about a late payment fee Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading 
as Argos) applied to his account. 
What happened
Mr M complained to Argos after receiving demands for a late payment fee and interest on his 
account. He said hed made a payment of £13 towards his account and his statement 
showed it was received on time. 
Argos said it had issued a statement on 11 March 2020 requesting a minimum payment of 
£22.60 be made before 9 April 2020. As the payment was not made by the due date, a £12 
late payment fee was applied to the account. As it was an interest-bearing account, standard 
interest was also applied to it. As no error had occurred, the late payment fee and interest 
would remain on Mr Ms account. 
Mr M said he hadnt seen the March statement because the email from Argos had gone into 
a part of his email account that he didnt use. He felt Argos was acting unreasonably. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She said she didnt have grounds to ask Argos to do anything more because it had acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account. She also thought that Mr M should 
reasonably have been aware that the payment was due. He would have been able to check 
his statement online.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said if hed known what the minimum 
monthly payment was, he would have paid it on time. Hed never been late with any previous 
payments. He felt Argos should have waived the one off late payment. He was now being 
chased by a debt collection agency. 
As Mr M has disagreed with our investigators opinion, his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Argos terms and conditions say it may charge £12 if you do not make your minimum 
monthly contractual payment on time.
Mr Ms statement dated 11 March 2020 shows the minimum payment due by 9 April 2020 
was £22.60. Mr M has acknowledged that he only paid £13 to his account and I can see this 
was the amount received on 9 April. 
The statement issued on 11 April 2020 shows a late payment fee of £12 was added on 10 
April. 
Given what it says in Argos terms and conditions, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
have applied the late payment fee to Mr Ms account.
Mr M says he wasnt aware of the amount that was due to be paid as he hadnt seen the 
email from Argos. The email had gone into a folder in his email account that he didnt use. 
Argos says emails are sent within 48 hours of a statement being produced to advise it is 
available and to sign into the online account to view it. Mr M could access his online account 
at any time to view details of any payments that may be due. 
I appreciate Mr M didnt see the email from Argos, but Im satisfied that the statement was 
available for him to view online. So, he would have been able to check the amount he 
needed to pay. I understand Mr Ms frustration that Argos wouldnt agree to waive the late 
payment fee. But it wasnt under any obligation to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman