DRN-3628436
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy relating to a property dispute. 
What happened
Mr T has legal expenses insurance with Aviva. In May 2021 he submitted a claim to it 
relating to various issues he was having with the managers of his property. Aviva asked one 
of its panel solicitors to assess whether the claims would have reasonable prospects of 
success (which is a requirement of the policy). Unfortunately, the panel firm were unable to 
act. Nor were another two panel firms Aviva approached. 
Aviva said it didnt have other panel firms in Mr Ts part of the country (Scotland) so he could 
appoint a solicitor of his own. He provided details of a firm hed previously used (which Ill 
call F). Aviva sent terms of appointment to them in mid July. F asked for a Scottish version of 
these. Aviva suggested F amend the terms it had already sent. F sent back amended terms 
in early September. Aviva confirmed its agreement to these a week later and asked for them 
to be signed.
Mr T sent a number of chaser emails to Aviva following that and said if F werent willing to 
act, Aviva should find an alternative firm for him. Aviva said it couldnt do that but did chase 
for the signed terms. F requested clarification on these at the start of December. Aviva 
responded a few days later and F returned the signed terms of appointment at the end of 
December. In response to the complaint Mr T then made Aviva said it didnt think the delay 
in agreeing terms of appointment resulted from any failing on its part. 
Our investigator thought Aviva acted reasonably in agreeing Mr T could appoint his own 
solicitor when panel firms were unable to act. And, as it was using a non panel firm, it did 
need to agree terms of appointment with them. She thought Aviva could have considered 
other options when Mr T later asked it to find an alternative firm. But even if it had tried to 
find an alternative firm that would have taken time and that firm would also have had to 
agree terms with Aviva. She didnt think not doing so caused a significant delay to the 
progress of the claim given F returned the signed terms at the end of December. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said Aviva hadnt acted reasonably when arranging the terms of 
appointment and it shouldnt have refused to find an alternative firm when it became clear F 
wasnt responding in a timely fashion. It wasnt reasonable it had taken nearly six months to 
agree terms of appointment and he outlined the impact the delay had had on the case he 
wanted to pursue.  And he didnt think he should have needed to contact F to prompt them 
for action as this was for Aviva to do. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I think Aviva took reasonable steps when Mr T first made his claim to try and find a panel 
solicitor who could assess whether it had reasonable prospects of success. And I can see 
the three panel solicitors it approached said they wouldnt be able to do that. In that situation, 
and in order to move the claim forward, I think it was right Aviva agreed Mr T could use his 
own solicitor. If hed had difficulty in finding a suitable firm, Id have expected Aviva to assist 
but he provided details of F the same day (and subsequently said hed had positive 
dealings with them in the past). 
I also think it was reasonable Aviva then needed to agree terms of appointment with F as 
thats the basis on which they would act. But I agree with Mr T it took significantly longer 
than would normally be expected for those terms to be agreed. However, the question I need 
to consider is whether Aviva got anything wrong when doing so  and if it did whether that 
led to a delay in progressing Mr Ts claim. 
Looking at whats happened I havent identified any significant delay by Aviva. It responded 
promptly to the query from F about a Scottish version of the terms of appointment. Once F 
provided an amended version, Aviva confirmed its agreement to those without any undue 
delay. It also provided clarification on the query F raised in early December within a 
reasonable timeframe. So, while I do appreciate it took a long time for the terms to be 
agreed by F, I cant see that was because of any delay by Aviva. 
Ive gone on to think about whether there was nevertheless more Aviva should have done to 
move matters forward. As the reason F needed to be appointed was because it couldnt find 
panel solicitors who were able to act, I do think there was a responsibility on Aviva, rather 
than Mr T, to be proactive in chasing F for responses. And while it did follow matters up with 
F that was generally following contact from Mr T. However, I dont think its possible to say 
further chasers would have led to a quicker response from F because even when emails 
were sent it still took some time for it to reply. 
However, I agree with our investigator that Aviva could have considered other options to 
move the claim forward. When Mr F contacted it in November it had had no contact from F 
for two months (and the claim hadnt made significant progress since it was originally made 
in May). I think that, together with the concerns Mr T was raising, should have prompted 
Aviva to consider what other options might then be available to progress the claim. That 
could have included providing assistance to Mr T to find an alternative firm (given hed only 
had to do that in the first place because Avivas own panel firms were unable to act). 
But I also agree that doing so would in itself have taken time. Mr T doesnt appear to have 
had another firm in mind so one would need to have been found. They would then have 
needed to agree terms of appointment (and might have had their own queries about these). 
F did return the signed terms at the end of December. I dont think its likely that, even if 
Aviva had provided assistance and been able to find an alternative firm following Mr Ts 
November contact, theyd have provided their agreement to the terms within a shorter 
timeframe than that. 
So I cant say any failing by Aviva had a significant impact on the progress of Mr Ts claim. 
As a result, while I note the comments hes made about the impact of the delay on his 
underlying claim, I dont think thats something which Aviva is responsible for. If Mr T has 
concerns about the actions of his solicitors in this period thats something he may want to 
raise with them.My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman