DRN-2960085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
declined a claim they made on a pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B insure their dog, D, on a policy provided by Red Sands. The policy is marketed 
under a brand name, A. They made a claim on the policy for treatment for an ear problem.
After reviewing the claim, Red Sands declined cover for the claim. It said that D had 
previously had ear problems requiring treatment. It said this should have been disclosed 
when the policy was taken out. And if Mr and Mrs B had done so, it would have excluded all 
conditions relating to the ears from cover on the policy. It also added an exclusion to the 
policy excluding any future claims for ear problems.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this and complained to Red Sands. When it rejected their 
complaint, they referred it to our service. Our investigator thought that Red Sands hadnt 
acted fairly when it declined cover for the claim. As Red Sands didnt accept this, the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands says that its entitled to decline cover for the claim because Mr and Mrs B didnt 
disclose the previous ear problem when they took out the policy. The relevant law in this 
case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This 
requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking 
out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. But in order for any 
of these points to be considered, I need to first determine that Mr and Mrs B made a 
misrepresentation. Thats the crux of this complaint.
Red Sands thinks Mr and Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they didnt tell it about the previous ear problem and treatment 
received by D when they took out the policy. It isnt disputed that D had this problem and 
received treatment from a vet for it around nine months before the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs B took out the policy online, via a price comparison website. Ive looked at the 
questions they were asked when the policy was taken out. The relevant part seems to me to 
be what was asked of Mr and Mrs B after they were directed to As website. The declaration 
questions asked do not include any question about previous medical treatment. There is a 
section under assumptions which states You accept that we shall not provide cover for any 
illness, injury, symptoms or conditions that are pre-existing at the date you take out your 
policy with us or which exist at the time you take out the policy or any matters relating to 
them. This also says that if any of the assumptions are incorrect then the customer should 
contact A.
It appears that this is what Red Sands relies on when it seeks to decline cover for the claim. 
It has provided evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria that an ear problem such as 
that suffered by D before the policy was taken out would have resulted in an exclusion being 
added to the policy.
But based on the available evidence, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were under an 
obligation to disclose the previous ear problem to Red Sands when they took out the policy. 
The wording of the questions asked didnt require them to do so, and the wording of the 
relevant assumption isnt clear enough, in my view, as to require the relatively minor ear 
problem which D had suffered from around nine months earlier to be disclosed. 
In making this determination, Im mindful of what Red Sands sought to have disclosed when 
the policy was due for renewal a year later. At that point, it said that any vet consultations 
other than for routine vaccinations should be disclosed. If Red Sands wanted to have 
information of this nature disclosed when the policy was taken out, it could have asked this, 
but it didnt. The assumption put to Mr and Mrs B was less clear in referring to pre-existing 
illnesses or conditions. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs B knew, or should 
have known, that the ear problem could occur again or that the issue should be considered a 
pre-existing illness.
The claim has been made after the policy was renewed. The type of policy is important here, 
however. This is a lifetime policy which, in effect, provides ongoing cover for conditions 
which are diagnosed or first treated during the life of the policy (provided cover continues 
uninterrupted)  rather than such conditions being excluded from cover after the first 
occurrence or claim. So this means that I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr and Mrs B 
were under an obligation to then declare the ear problem when the policy renewed. This is 
despite D having treatment for an ear problem during that first year (which didnt result in a 
claim being made on the policy). Mr and Mrs B didnt have to disclose the ear problem which 
occurred before the policy cover started. And theyd be entitled to conclude that anything 
linked to the ear problem for which D had treatment for in the first year of the policy would be 
covered as part of the lifetime cover, and so wouldnt need to be disclosed when the policy 
renewed.
So I conclude that Red Sands didnt act fairly when it declined the claim and added the 
exclusion to the policy. In order to put things right, Red Sands needs to reconsider the claim 
in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs B have already paid the 
treatment costs, so in the event that Red Sands settles the claim, it should pay the amount 
claimed (less any excess and other deductions as set out in the terms and conditions) plus 
8% interest simple per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. It also needs 
to remove the exclusion added to the policy relating to ears.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, I order Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Reconsider the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Pay interest on any amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr and Mrs 
B paid those costs to the date of settlement.
Remove the exclusion added to the policy in respect of conditions relating to Ds 
ears.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman