DRN-2563780
The complaint
Miss D complains about two transactions on her account with Contis Financial Services 
Limited (Contis) and also that Contis operates accounts for an organisation that she believes 
is committing fraud. 
What happened
Miss D had a visa debit card which she took out through an organisation that provides 
banking solutions to certain vulnerable people  which Ill call A. The card was issued by 
Contis. Miss B says that on 11 November 2019 £100 was taken from her account and on 13 
November 2019 £50 was taken from her account for transactions she hadnt made. Miss D 
believes that staff at A were involved in the transactions and that funds have been taken 
from other vulnerable customers of A. These customers are unlikely to make a complaint 
because of their circumstances. Miss D believes that as Contis operates accounts for A it is 
enabling fraud to take place. 
Contis investigated Miss Ds concerns and refunded £150 on 18 November 2019 but this 
didnt resolve Miss Ds complaint. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint noted Contis has refunded £150 for the two 
transactions and said she thought it acted reasonably in doing so in a week. She went on to 
say that this service couldnt consider Miss Ds complaint about the accounts Contis 
operates for A. This is because we can only consider complaints about customers own 
accounts and, to a more limited extent, against financial businesses a payment is made to. 
Miss D was unhappy with the investigators opinion. She said the investigator hadnt 
understood the crux of her complaint, which was that Contis is allowing accounts to be run 
fraudulently by As employees. Miss D says Contis terms and conditions and Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) permissions dont allow A to operate financial accounts. Miss B has 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision, so her complaint has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that the main part of Miss Ds complaint relates to the accounts Contis operates 
for A but will also cover the transactions Miss D says she didnt make. As Contis has 
refunded the transactions Miss D disputes in a reasonable period of time, and provided 
evidence to this service that it has done so, I dont consider it needs to do anything more. 
Turning to Miss Ds main complaint, this service doesnt have a free hand to consider every 
complaint which is referred to us. We must follow the rules, which say what we can and cant 
look at. These rules are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook and are known 
as the Dispute Resolution Rules.
One of the Dispute Resolution Rules says that our service can only consider complaints from 
eligible complainants. The Rules say that, 
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent [in this 
case Contis]:
There then follows a list of possible relationships, one of which is being a customer, payment 
service user or electronic money holder. 
Miss D has a relevant relationship with Contis in respect of her own account, because her 
complaint arises from her relationship as a customer of Contis - so she can complain about 
actions Contis took in respect of her individual relationship with it. But I dont consider that 
the complaint she makes in respect of the accounts of others arises from that customer 
relationship and so our rules do not allow me to consider this aspect of her complaint. Put 
simply, the Dispute Resolution Rules mean that generally speaking this service can only 
consider complaints from a customer in relation to their own account. In some limited 
circumstances we can consider complaints about receiving banks, but the provisions dont 
apply here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint in respect of the two 
refunded transactions on her account and cant consider Miss Ds complaint about the 
operation of other accounts, because she is not an eligible complainant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman