DRN-3761469
The complaint
Mr D complains that Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr D was provided with an interest free fixed sum loan agreement by CCF in November 
2020 to pay for a training course. He paid an initial fee of £60 and was required to make 43 
monthly repayments of £180. The total amount repayable was £7,800. Mr D says adequate 
affordability checks werent carried out before the loan agreement was provided and that he 
was told not to include his other financial commitments as part of his application.
CCF says that on his loan application Mr D said he was employed and that he showed the 
sales representative a salary slip to confirm his monthly income as £1,500. He also provided 
information about his monthly expenses which totalled £754. It said a credit check was 
carried out and the information from this, combined with the information provided by Mr D, 
resulted in his loan application being approved. It said that it was reasonable to rely on the 
information provided by Mr D but that following further investigation the information was 
shown not to be correct. However, it said taking the new information into account still 
suggested the loan was affordable for Mr D.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that taking the new information 
into account meant the loan wasnt affordable.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said it had been accepted that his details 
werent recorded accurately when he applied for the finance and evidence hadnt been 
provided to show that adequate checks took place. He noted our investigators calculations 
for his income and expenses and said these left him with a disposable income lower than the 
amount CCF had said was its minimum threshold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CCF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before the loan was provided, we would expect creditworthiness and affordability checks to 
take place. There isnt a specific set of checks that need to happen, but the checks need to 
be proportionate given the type, size and type of lending being provided. In this case, CCF 
has provided a copy of the income and expenses form that was completed at application and 
has said that a credit check also took place.
Mr D says he was told that he shouldnt include his other loans as part of his application and 
has said this would be shown on the video recording. I note that CCF has accepted that a 
mistake was made by not including the full mobile payments Mr D was making. CCF has 
said that it was shown a copy of Mr Ds salary slip to confirm his monthly income, but Mr D 
says this was only on the video and so wasnt a reasonable verification process. 
Unfortunately, a copy of the video recording hasnt been provided and I also havent seen 
the results of CCFs credit checks. Therefore, I have relied on the credit report Mr D has 
provided as well as the information contained in his bank statements (alongside the 
application data and other testimonies) as a reasonable indication of the information CCF 
would have received based on adequate and proportionate checks taking place.
Mr Ds credit report doesnt report any defaults, county court judgments or insolvency 
records. He did have other active accounts, but these appeared to be managed well. Mr D 
had taken out a loan around five months before his application (although I note that this was 
settled in December 2020 a month after his application) and had also taken on an additional 
credit card a month before the application. While I do not think this raises concerns that 
meant the loan shouldnt have been provided, it could suggest the Mr D was becoming 
increasingly indebted and so I think it would have been reasonable for CCF to ensure it had 
a clear understanding of Mr Ds financial situation before lending.
Mr Ds income was recorded on his application as £1,500. While the salary slip supporting 
this hasnt been provided Mr D has noted it was shown on the video call and given the 
information provided about his employment, I do not find it unreasonable that this information 
was relied on. I also note that Mr Ds bank statements support this income amount (£1,530 
recorded in August and October 2020 and a higher amount recorded in September 2020) 
and so had further checks been carried out then Mr Ds income would likely have been 
recorded at above the amount included in the assessment. 
While I think verification of Mr Ds income was required, I do not think based on the credit 
check results and the loan repayments compared to Mr Ds income that verification of his 
expenses was required. It is reasonable that CCF asked Mr D about these and based on the 
form completed these totalled £754. I have therefore considered what Mr D was likely to 
have told CCF had reasonable questions been asked. Based on Mr Ds complaint he has 
said he was told to reduce the amount of his council tax, not to include his other credit 
commitments and that his full communications costs werent included. Amending Mr Ds 
expenses for these amounts would have resulted in his expenses being just under £1,500. 
However, I think that had further questions been asked, Mr D would have also said that a 
family member was providing him a contribution for his loan repayments (£432) and taking 
this out of the calculation would have resulted in his expenses being around £1,050 against 
his income of just over £1,500. Based on this, I do not find that I can say CCF should have 
considered the loan unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman