DRN-2873183
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under her 
home insurance policy.
Mrs A is represented in this case but, for ease, I have only referred to Mrs A.
What happened
While Mrs A was having a new boiler fitted in her home, a plumber lifted some floorboards 
and found raw sewage in the void under the floor. Mrs As plumber found the source of the 
sewage and repaired the leaking pipe and Mrs A made an insurance claim for the damage. 
AXA then appointed a company to deal with the sewage and carry out drying.
Mrs A complained to AXA about delays with progressing the claim. AXA accepted that there 
were delays and offered Mrs A £350 compensation. Mrs A declined this as she said the 
issues were unresolved and the delays were ongoing.
When the drying was complete. Mrs A arranged for her own contractor to refit the kitchen. 
When Mrs As contractor started the work on the kitchen, he lifted the flooring and found a 
leaking gas pipe. Mrs A arranged for an emergency engineer to visit, who turned off the gas 
supply. This left Mrs A with no heating or hot water.
Mrs A complained to AXA. She said AXAs contractor had damaged the gas pipe and that 
the leak must have been ongoing for some time, which had put her family in danger. When 
AXA replied it didnt accept its contractor had damaged the pipe but offered to pay half the 
cost of fixing the gas pipe. AXA later agreed to pay the full cost of fixing the gas pipe, but still 
didnt accept it had caused the damage.
Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator said there were avoidable delays during 
the claim and that the £350 compensation offered was reasonable in the circumstances. She 
also said she didnt think there was conclusive evidence about the cause of the gas leak and 
how long it had been ongoing. She said AXAs offer to pay for the pipe to be repaired was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
As Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require AXA to do anything further. I will explain why.
Mrs A complained about delays in progressing the claim. Looking at what happened, I can 
see there were some delays, such as getting the drying report and the drying certificate, as 
well as agreeing the cash settlement amount. Mrs A and her broker chased on a number of 
occasions in order to try and ensure the claim continued to progress. When Mrs A 
complained, AXA reviewed the claim and accepted that there had been some avoidable 
delays. AXA offered £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Looking 
at the delays and the reasons for these, I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs A also complained to AXA when a gas leak was found in her home. I can understand 
that Mrs A was very concerned by this, including about the potential consequences of a gas 
leak. Mrs A has said she thinks AXAs contractor was responsible for the leak. AXA said 
there wasnt evidence to show this but, as a gesture of good will, offered to pay Mrs As 
costs for repairing the gas leak.
Ive looked at what happened. A contractor working for Mrs A found the gas leak when he 
lifted the floorboards. The contractor said he thought the gas pipe had been knocked or 
stood on. He thought it was more than possible that AXAs contractor had caused the 
damage. The emergency engineer who then visited found a gas leak and switched off the 
gas supply, but didnt describe the damage or give a possible cause. Mrs A then arranged 
for her own plumber to repair the gas leak. The plumbers invoice said Pipe work possibly 
damaged while works to clean and dry under floor were being undertaken.
When AXA investigated the circumstances of the gas leak, it discussed it with the drying 
contractor. AXAs contractor said it wouldnt have caused damage and not dealt with it. The 
contractor also spoke to the plumber who repaired the damaged pipe. The plumber said it 
was hard to say what had caused the damage but that the pipe might have been knocked.
Mrs A also provided a gas safety certificate that was issued a short time before AXAs 
contractor started its work. She said she thought a gas leak would have been picked up 
when the certificate was being issued if it had already started by that point. Im also aware 
that Mrs A has said there was a strange smell for some time before the gas leak was found. 
She had originally thought the smell was due to the sewage but now thought it was the smell 
of the gas leaking.
I can understand why Mrs A thinks that AXAs contractor caused the damage and that the 
gas leak also caused her a lot of distress. But Im aware that the plumber who fixed the 
leaking pipe said it was difficult to say what the most likely cause was, having inspected the 
damaged pipe and carrying out a repair. I have considered the gas safety certificate and, 
although this puts a likely timescale on the leak, I dont think it helps to show the likely cause 
of the gas leak. Having thought about this carefully, I dont think there is enough evidence to 
show that the gas leak was most likely due to the actions of AXAs contractor. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for AXA to offer to pay the cost of the repair to the 
pipe as a gesture of good will and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that AXA doesnt need to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman