DRN-2198006
The complaint
Mr Zs complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited (Markerstudy) havent 
treated him fairly in their handling of a claim made against him under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr Z had a comprehensive motor insurance policy with Markerstudy.  Hed accumulated a 
number of years No Claims Discount.  But that wasnt protected under the policy.
In September 2016, Markerstudy were contacted by a third party who reported that theyd 
been involved in an accident with Mr Zs car the previous month.  They said the accident 
was Mr Zs fault. 
Markerstudy wrote to Mr Z asking him for information about the incident.  Mr Z replied, telling 
Markerstudy that hed not been involved in any accident on the date the third party had 
given.  Markerstudy passed this onto the third party.
The third party continued to say theyd been involved in an accident with Mr Z. They supplied 
details of the make and model of his car, and a description of the driver. Solicitors were 
instructed to pursue the third partys claim.  Markerstudy defended the claim on Mr Zs 
behalf.  But in the second half of 2018, the third party positively identified Mr Z as the driver 
of the car which had hit them.  At this point, Markerstudy decided not to defend the claim any 
longer, and reached a settlement.
Markerstudy continued to investigate the circumstances of the claim.  In January 2019, they 
arranged for investigators to interview Mr Z about the accident.  During the interview, Mr Z 
said at first he couldnt remember being involved in an accident  and that he suffered from 
memory loss which he thought was due to his age.  But, when the investigator continued 
asking him questions, Mr Z phoned his wife (whod been a passenger in the car).  Mr Z says 
that, during that conversation, his wife confirmed that they had been involved in an accident 
on the date in question.
Markerstudy asked Mr Z to explain why hed not reported the accident. And why hed 
scrapped his car two weeks after the accident had happened.  They didnt hear from Mr Z 
before the deadline theyd given him to reply.  So Markerstudy wrote to Mr Z to inform him 
theyd decided that had misrepresented his involvement in the accident.  They said this was 
a breach of the policy terms, which entitled them not to indemnify Mr Z for the claim.  
Because theyd already settled the claim, Markerstudy wanted Mr Z to reimburse them for 
the settlement amount and the costs of dealing with the claim.
Mr Z complained to Markerstudy about their decision.  Markerstudy considered his complaint 
but didnt change their view.  So Mr Z brought his complaint to us.  
Our investigator looked at the matter but didnt think Markerstudy shouldve done anything 
differently.  She didnt think it was unreasonable for them to have decided, on the basis of 
the information they had, that Mr Z had misrepresented his involvement in the accident.
Mr Z didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Insurers have to deal with claims promptly and fairly, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.  My role is to consider whether theyve done that.  In this case, that means Im 
deciding whether it was reasonable for Markerstudy to reach the conclusion they did, based 
on the evidence available.  It isnt to decide whether or not Mr Z misrepresented the position 
to them.
Ive seen that Markerstudy at first accepted what Mr Z said and defended the claim made 
against him in accordance with the policy terms.  When the third party identified Mr Z as the 
driver of the car that hit them, Markerstudy decided there wasnt a strong prospect of 
defending the claim and settled.
But they continued to investigate the circumstances with Mr Z.  They wrote to him about 
what had happened. And they instructed investigators to speak to him.  It was during the 
interview with the investigators that Mr Z spoke to his wife, who he says told him that he had 
been involved in the accident.
Ive seen the letter Markerstudy sent Mr Z explaining why theyd come to the conclusion hed 
misrepresented the circumstances of the accident.  It says Markerstudy doesnt accept Mr Z 
didnt tell them about the accident due to memory loss.  And it says he couldve checked with 
his wife much sooner.  It goes on to say their view is supported by the fact that Mr Z 
scrapped the car shortly after the accident.  And it states why Markerstudy think Mr Z did this 
 to avoid a fault claim. 
The letter says that Markerstudy consider this to be a misrepresentation and sets out the 
term they relied on to recover their costs from Mr Z.
Ive thought about the letter. And Ive thought about whether Markerstudy shouldve got more 
evidence about Mr Zs memory loss.  Mr Z offered to provide this.  But the investigators 
report says that Mr Z told them that hed not had a diagnosis from a doctor  so thered be 
no record Markerstudy could rely on.  And, even if hed gone to his doctor when Markerstudy 
concluded Mr Z had made a misrepresentation, that wouldnt have been evidence of the 
state of his memory when the accident occurred.  
So I think it was reasonable for Markerstudy to draw the conclusions they did from the 
information they had.  They only did that after theyd investigated and given Mr Z a chance to 
put forward his position.  I think that was fair.
The policy term Markerstudy relied on says: 
If you or anyone acting on your behalf knowingly commit a fraudulent act or submit a 
fraudulent document or make a fraudulent statement or exaggerate any claim made under 
the policy, we will not pay the claim and cover under this and all other insurances currently in 
force with us with which you are connected will cease immediately. You will not be entitled to 
any refund of premium under any policy.I think that terms clear.  And Im satisfied Markerstudy wouldnt have paid the claim if theyd 
known Mr Z hadnt given them accurate information about the accident. And there are no 
exceptional circumstances here which mean the term shouldnt apply. 
So Markerstudy are entitled to reclaim what theyve paid out from Mr Z.  And I dont think 
they should have done anything differently in the handling of his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Zs complaint about Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman