DRN-3210848
The complaint
Mr M had gadget insurance with Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith), but hes unhappy that it 
declined his claim for a lost or stolen mobile phone.
What happened
Mr M bought a new mobile phone and insured it straight away with Zenith. The following day, 
he lost the phone during his bus journey. The phone was still in its wrapping and inside a 
carrier bag. He reported the incident on an online loss service and made a claim under his 
policy with Zenith.
Zenith declined his claim because the phone didnt have a SIM card in it, so Mr M couldnt 
prove usage in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt think Zenith had treated him fairly because the phone was still in its packaging, 
so he hadnt inserted the SIM yet.
Our investigator didnt think Zenith had done anything wrong and he didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Thats because Zenith handled the claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
Mr M didnt agree because Zenith didnt tell him he had to insert a SIM immediately for cover 
to be available under his policy.
After our investigation, Zenith reconsidered Mr Ms claim and offered to settle it. It offered a 
cash settlement of just over £900 and later increased the offer to just over £1,000. Mr M 
didnt think it was enough because his phone cost more than that and was brand new. He 
also wanted compensation because Zenith didnt handle his claim properly to begin with and 
it continued to take his monthly policy premiums.
Our investigator thought Zenith had made a fair offer in the circumstances, and beyond the 
terms of the policy. He didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
My role is to decide whether Zenith handled Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the terms of 
the policy. I see that Zenith originally declined Mr Ms claim but, more recently it made a 
settlement offer. Ill consider both parts of the complaint because they are directly linked.
Claim
The first issue is that Mr M doesnt think Zenith treated him fairly when it declined his claim 
for loss of the phone. Zenith declined the claim because Mr M hadnt put a SIM in it and 
couldnt prove usage.
Ive looked at the policy which says:
D) What is not covered?
11. Any claim for a gadget where proof of usage cannot be provided or evidenced.
On the face of it, I can see why Zenith relied on this exclusion. It could reasonably expect a 
policyholder to show that the phone had been in use around the time of the loss. But Mr M 
explained he bought the phone as a gift the day before and it was still in its packaging, so he 
hadnt used it. 
I listened to the call recording of Mr Ms claim and Zenith said the policy only covered 
phones with an active SIM connected to a network. However, I havent seen anything in the 
policy wording where that is specifically stated. And Mr M said he wasn't told that when he 
bought the policy. 
The policy conditions only require Mr M to have evidence of ownership at inception of this 
insurance cover. Ive seen the evidence of ownership that Mr M sent to Zenith, which 
includes tracking information showing the phone was delivered the day before his claim. So, 
in the circumstances, I dont think it was fair for Zenith to decline Mr Ms claim because he 
couldnt provide proof of usage for a phone hed only received the day before.
Despite declining Mr Ms claim, Zenith went on to reconsider and then accept his claim. Im 
satisfied that resolves the first issue.
Settlement
Moving on, the second issue is that Mr M doesnt think Zeniths cash settlement offer is 
enough to cover the cost of a new replacement phone. Zenith said the policy doesnt provide 
cover for replacement as new. Turning to the policy again, Ive looked at how Zenith 
shouldve settled the claim.
E) Claim settlement
1.The intention of this policy is to put you back in the same position as immediately prior 
to the loss or damage. It is not a replacement as new policy. If the gadget cannot be 
replaced with an identical gadget of the same age and condition, we will replace it with 
one of comparable specification or the equivalent value taking into account the age and 
condition of the original gadgetWhere an equivalent refurbished item is not available, 
we will offer vouchers or a cash settlement based on the market value of the original 
gadget taking into account its age and condition.
Im satisfied that this confirms Zeniths explanation of its cash settlement offer. A similar 
phone wasnt available, so Zenith settled the claim according to the cash value of the phone. 
I can understand why Mr M thinks Zenith shouldve paid to cover the purchase price of a 
brand-new phone - thats what hed lost. But the policy clearly states that it is not a 
replacement as new policy.Zenith offered a little over £900 and then increased its offer to just over £1,000. Thats 
around £800 less than Mr M paid for the phone. Ive looked at the market value for the same 
type of phone and Zeniths offer is in line with the published prices. Based on the evidence 
available, Im satisfied Zenith offered a settlement in line with the terms of the policy.
The final point Ill address is Mr Ms concern that Zenith continued to take his monthly 
premium even though it had declined his claim. If Mr M had asked to cancel his policy when 
Zenith declined his claim, he wouldve only been charged for the period from inception to 
cancellation. So, he wouldnt have continued to pay the monthly premiums. But, because 
Zenith accepted his claim, the full premium is due. This is explained in the policy:
Your right to change your mind
If a claim has been made by you we will not refund any premium and if you are paying by 
monthly instalments you must still pay us the remaining annual premium.
So, Im satisfied that Zenith continued to take payment for the policy in line with the terms 
and conditions, and it was fair to do so because Mr M had made a successful claim. I wont 
be asking Zenith to refund Mr Ms premiums.
I understand Mr M may be disappointed by this because he bought and lost a brand-new 
phone in the space of 24 hours and the settlement is less than he paid. However, once 
Zenith decided to accept Mr Ms claim and make him a cash settlement offer, Im satisfied 
that it did so in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I see no reason to ask Zenith 
to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman