DRN-3397947
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) made an error when applying his 
premiums to his whole of life policy. As a result, Mr S says Aviva should refund all of the 
premiums he paid on the policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a whole of life policy with a provider that has since been taken over by Aviva. 
Responsibility for the complaint has been taken on by Aviva.
In April 2019, Mr S told Aviva theyd made a mistake in apportioning the investment part of 
his premiums. In response, Aviva told Mr S theyd recalculated how the premiums should 
have been invested and had rectified the impact of the error by adding funds to his policy. 
Mr S surrendered the policy in September 2019 and asked Aviva if other consumers had 
been impacted by this error. Aviva later confirmed this was the case. Aviva accepted they 
hadnt dealt with that aspect of his complaint and, in November 2019 issued a final response 
to Mr S apologising for not explaining this earlier. Aviva paid Mr S £50.00 for the 
inconvenience theyd caused him.
In January 2021, Mr S contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service to complain that Aviva 
should pay him back the premiums hed paid on the policy. After Aviva provided a final 
response to this complaint one of our Investigators looked into things for Mr S. The 
Investigator thought the complaint made about the premiums being applied incorrectly had 
been dealt with by Aviva in a final response letter dated 13 November 2019. And, that this 
meant this part of the complaint was out of time. However, in respect of the refund of 
premiums Mr S felt was now appropriate, the Investigator didnt think Aviva needed to refund 
the premiums as theyd still provided life cover for the period when the premiums were 
incorrectly applied. 
Mr S didnt agree with our Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides his 
complaint. Its now been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says its difficult to accept he had to tell Aviva theyd made an error. And he believes 
that if hed missed premiums for 10 years Aviva would have ended the policy. Mr S says he 
thought the £50.00 offer made by Aviva in November 2019 added insult to injury. Ive 
considered the comments from Mr S, but Ive decided no to uphold his complaint that Aviva 
should refund all of his premiums. I will now explain why.
I understand Mr S is disappointed with our Investigators conclusion. However, Im satisfied 
Aviva dealt with the investment of the premiums in April and November 2019. I appreciate 
Mr S may not be happy about this now, but this part of the complaint is one we cant 
consider because its been brought to us more than six-months after the date of the final 
response from Aviva. The final response letter from Aviva made it clear Mr S had six-months 
to bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but he didnt do so within that 
time. Mr S hasnt provided me with any comments to consider in this regard.
However, I can consider the crux of the complaint Mr S, made in January 2021, that Aviva 
should refund all the premiums hes paid now hes surrendered the policy.
The whole of life policy had a guaranteed death benefit and an investment element. The 
death benefit was significantly higher than the surrender value of the policy in September 
2019. This means, for the time Mr S held the policy with Aviva, its more than likely the death 
benefit would have been the paid if Mr S had passed, rather than the investment value of the 
policy. By the time Mr S surrendered the policy in September 2019, Aviva had already 
recalculated the value of his investment and he was paid out the value he would have 
received if Aviva had invested the premiums correctly.
Mr S says if hed missed premiums Aviva wouldve ended the policy. Ive considered this, but 
its too speculative for me to conclude this. The policy would have a cash value. If Mr S 
voluntarily stopped paying the premiums, or had to stop them for any other reason, its likely 
the investment element of the policy would have been used to help provide the guaranteed 
beath benefit. Alternatively, Mr S may have chosen to surrender the policy as he did later.
Mr S said he surrendered the policy because he didnt trust Aviva any longer. I empathise 
with Mr S here, but I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude the 
error Aviva made is enough for me to say they should also refund the premiums hed paid. 
Mr S had the full benefits of the policy, life cover and investment, as intended. I say this 
because its likely Aviva would have paid the guaranteed death benefit if Mr S had passed 
prior to the surrender of the policy, and he received the full surrender value after Aviva 
rectified their earlier error. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I wont be asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman