DRN-4118996
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited 
(Lighthouse) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme, British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Mr C was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice. Mr C met with Lighthouse in July 2017 and it 
recorded some information about his circumstances. It noted that he was 54, married with 
two children, one of whom was dependent. Mr C was employed earning approximately 
£34,000. His wife wasnt working - her health was poor and she had a number of medical 
conditions. They had a mortgage on their home of approximately £90,000, which had a 
remaining term of just over four years and unsecured (credit card) debt of around £20,000. 
Mr Cs monthly household expenditure was around £2,000. Lighthouse also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed was lowest medium  a risk rating of 
four on a scale of one to ten.
In September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr C with an updated summary of the transfer value 
of his scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of just 
over £717,000.
Lighthouse issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report.) This was 
dated May 2017  but given the timing of the fact-find meeting and the transfer analysis 
report, I think this is incorrect. I think its more likely this letter was issued in September 
2017. This said Mr C wanted to retire at 55 and have the flexibility to control the way his 
benefits were paid. It said he wanted access to the maximum tax-free cash sum possible 
from his pension to pay off his mortgage and credit card debt. It said if his debts remained 
outstanding, the monthly cost of £1,200 would prevent him from retiring. Lighthouse said 
Mr C had no need for a spouses pension - he preferred to leave the full value of his pension 
to his family instead. It said Mr C didnt mind a reasonable amount of risk in the hope his 
benefits could be higher in retirement.
Lighthouse recommended that Mr C transfer his pension as it would enable him to meet his 
aims  repay his debt, access his pension before normal retirement age without penalty, 
have greater flexibility, maximise his cash lump sum, maximise his income at times to meet 
his requirements and it offered the potential for tax-free lump sum death benefits. Lighthouse 
recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with his attitude to risk. 
The suitability report also noted that ongoing advice was recommended, which would come 
at a further cost.
Mr C complained to Lighthouse in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
his health had become a concern and that because his conditions were life limiting, he was 
concerned if anything was to happen to him his family might not have enough money to live 
on.
Lighthouse didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said a skilled person appointed by the FCA had 
previously reviewed the advice and in a report sent to Mr C, this said the advice given by 
Lighthouse was suitable. The report said that Mr Cs objectives could be met by transferring 
to a flexible arrangement without undue risk to his familys financial security. Lighthouse said 
after the advice, Mr C wouldve had the option of joining the new BSPS2 or staying with the 
existing scheme and moving with it to the PPF. It said it didnt believe either of these options 
were more financially advantageous to him. It said it understood Mr Cs concerns about his 
health, but it believes this strengthens the advice given rather than make it unsuitable. It said 
the advice was suitable.
Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He maintains that he 
received bad advice to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable. 
They said Mr C wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by 
transferring. And they didnt think Mr C needed to pay off his mortgage by accessing a cash 
lump sum given that he hadnt done so when he retired. They said the PPF was an 
alternative to transferring, which couldve possibly met his needs but this wasnt properly 
explored. And they said greater death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer  
Lighthouse shouldve prioritised Mr Cs needs and what was best for his retirement. They 
said Lighthouse shouldve advised Mr C to retain his DB scheme benefits. And that had it 
done so, Mr C wouldve likely subsequently chosen to remain with the scheme and move 
with it to the PPF given the more favourable early retirement benefits.
Lighthouse disagreed. It said it maintained the position of the skilled persons review of the 
advice given to Mr C that it was suitable. It said it was in the process of preparing a full 
submission for the Investigators consideration, which it would submit no later than the 
beginning of May 2023.
To date, Lighthouse has not provided a further submission. Its been made aware that the 
complaint is waiting for an Ombudsmans review. 
And it replied to our letter of May 2023 in which we said that the Ombudsman may require it 
to use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate any redress that may be 
owed to Mr C, by agreeing that it would adopt this approach if the complaint was upheld. 
So I think if Lighthouse wanted to submit further information for my consideration, it wouldve 
done so by now. 
So I think it is fair for me to carry on and issue a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouse's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Lighthouse 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Cs best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Lighthouse was required to carry out 
by the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Cs pension fund would 
need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  
was 10.97% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at 
age 65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme 
would provide at that age, was 8.79%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve 
paid from 65 the critical yield was 5.87% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 5.22%.
Because Mr Cs intended retirement age of 55 was less than 12 months away, the 
actual critical yields werent calculated, but the report said they were in excess of 
50%. And this was for both the benefits available through the existing scheme and 
the PPF (both full pension and reduced pension with a cash lump sum.)
Im mindful that it was known by the point Lighthouse instructed the TVAS that 
continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr C and so the 
analysis based on the BSPS benefits was somewhat redundant. But, even if Lighthouse had waited and carried out analysis of the benefits hed have been due 
under the BSPS2 when they became available, because of the short term to 
retirement, the outcome wouldnt have been any different  the critical yields wouldnt 
have been calculated.
I can see in the suitability report Lighthouse incorrectly, and in my view misleadingly, 
said that the critical yield had not been calculated because it was in excess of minus 
20%. It said this meant Mr Cs pension fund could afford to lose more than 20% 
between now and his target retirement date and still match the schemes benefits. 
But this was the hurdle rate  the growth rate required without a spouses pension, 
no increase in payment and no guarantee  not the critical yield. As I said above, the 
critical yield was in excess of 50%. And this is clearly demonstrated by the estimated 
fund value required to match Mr Cs benefits under the existing scheme being in 
excess of £1,200,000 based on a full pension and still a greater than £1,000,000 on a 
reduced income basis. 
Given this, I think it was clear Mr C was always likely to receive pension benefits, 
from age 55, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 
or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with his lowest medium attitude to 
risk.  Indeed the suitability report noted that ...the recommendation to transfer is 
based upon your desire for maximum tax-free cash, access without reduction, 
income flexibility and prospect of potential lump-sum rather than spouses death
benefits, guarantees and indexation. If your sole objective was to match or better the 
scheme benefits my advice would be not to transfer and leave your benefits in the 
Scheme until age 65.
Lighthouse recommended the transfer rather than leave his benefits where they were 
because it said the existing scheme wouldnt allow Mr C to maximise his cash lump 
for the repayment of his outstanding debt or provide him with the flexibility to change 
his income to suit his needs. It also said Mr C couldnt retire at 55 because hed incur 
an actuarial reduction and without repayment of his debt, it would cost him £1,200 a 
month. 
While different figures were quoted for Mr Cs mortgage in the advice paperwork - 
£75,000 and £90,000  it seems his total outstanding debt was around £100,000 - 
£110,000. Lighthouse said Mr C couldnt achieve the lump sum he required to pay off 
his debts by retaining his DB scheme benefits. Under the existing scheme, 
Lighthouses analysis shows that Mr C was entitled to a lump sum of £96,000 and an 
income of £14,425. But Lighthouse appears to have ignored the benefits available to 
Mr C through the PPF at age 55. Due to the more favourable very early retirement 
factors, according to the TVAS report, at 55 Mr C was entitled to a lump sum of 
£122,587 and an annual pension of £18,420.
Furthermore, it appears Lighthouse failed to record an important asset Mr C held at 
the time of the advice in 2017, which I think supports my view that Mr C didnt need 
access to a greater cash lump sum than his DB scheme would provide or that he 
needed to repay all of his mortgage balance to enable him to retire at 55. That asset 
was a mortgage endowment policy, which is recorded in the subsequent annual 
review documents Lighthouse provided. In the January 2021 review, it records that 
Mr C had cashed in his endowment and paid off part of his mortgage. It then says 
that, when his mortgage ends in March 2021, his mortgage would be paid off using the remaining surrendered endowment funds of £53,000 plus his mortgage 
overpayments.
So, when Mr C retired as planned in 2018, while he repaid his unsecured debt from 
his tax-free cash lump sum (these debts were recorded as being around £20,000), he 
didnt repay his mortgage in full. Based on him drawing an income of £2,000 a month 
from his pension, Mr C was able to pay the premium on his endowment policy, make 
the overpayment to his mortgage and meet his normal mortgage payment. A total of 
around £850 a month until his mortgage was repaid in full around March 2021.
Based on this, I think Mr C couldve achieved his objective of retiring at 55 by 
remaining in the BSPS and then moving with it to the PPF. Taking £20,000 from his 
cash lump sum of £122,000, Mr C could repay his unsecured debts. And while the 
annual income of £18,400 might have fallen short of his target income of £1,800 a 
month (I note Lighthouse didnt carry out a detailed income and expenditure analysis 
to interrogate this figure) and the amount he appears to have needed to sustain the 
mortgage repayment plan (£2,000 a month) he couldve topped up his income each 
month from the remaining cash lump sum. 
I think the remaining £100,000 wouldve sustained the additional income Mr C 
needed (around £4,500 - £5,000 a year) until his mortgage was repaid. And there 
would still be enough for him to top up his income, if needed, until his state pension 
became payable at 67. Im also mindful that it was recorded that Mr C might find part-
time work in due course once he retired. And this couldve supplemented his income 
if needed. I think this was a more appropriate way to meet Mr Cs retirement goals 
and income need rather than risking his guaranteed benefits to achieve things. 
Overall, given Mr C didnt need access to a greater tax-free cash lump than his DB 
scheme would provide, and Im not persuaded he had a strong need for variable 
income throughout retirement, I dont think transferring for flexibility was in his best 
interests.
Lighthouse recorded that Mr Cs wife had no need for a spouses pension, so Mr Cs 
priority was to leave a potential tax-free lump sum death benefit for his family. But the 
priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement. And despite 
what Lighthouse recorded, I think the spouses pension provided by the scheme 
couldve been valuable to his wife in the event of his death. This was guaranteed and 
it escalated.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by the income Mr C drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr C may have thought it would. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr C. And ultimately Lighthouse should not 
have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through 
a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr C may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension  he was concerned about both the new proposed scheme and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Lighthouses role to objectively address those 
concerns. At the time of the advice, I think all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established. But even if not, as I have demonstrated above, the PPF still provided 
Mr C with a guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash  both of 
which appear to have been sufficient to meet his needs at retirement. Mr C wasnt 
also likely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not 
as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about 
this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Cs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme. He had little investment knowledge or experience and nothing 
suggests to me that he had the requisite confidence or skill to do so. So, Im upholding the 
complaint as I think the advice Mr C received from Lighthouse was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given. This is because, given Mr C indicated that he wanted to 
retire at 55 and take a cash lump sum, the PPF offered more favourable terms for very early 
retirement in these circumstances over the BSPS2.
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Lighthouse based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr C has retired and he started taking benefits in April 2018 aged 55. So, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr C 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman