DRN-3023452
The complaint
B complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has unfairly declined its claim under its
commercial buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Ms M are the business owners of B and are represented by a third party. 
References I make to the parties actions include those of their respective agents.
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator and I previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
There was a fire in the business premises that occurred after closing. An employee 
had placed some tea towels in the tumble dryer at approximately 4.15-4.30pm. The 
cycle finished approximately at 5.00pm. After this the power and gas in the premises 
was switched off and the premises were closed for the day at 5.30pm. But the tea
towels had been left in the dryer.
Within an hour of closing, a passer-by noticed smoke coming from a vent and called 
emergency services, who put the fire out.
A claim was submitted, and Lloyds instructed a forensic investigator to attend the 
next day to assess the probable cause of fire.
The forensic investigator concluded that the fire most likely occurred after the tea 
towels ignited following a self-heating process after not being removed from the 
tumble dryer, which was further exacerbated by leftover cooking oil which wasnt 
properly removed when laundered.
Lloyds declined the claim under the following policy term, which it says the business 
didnt adhere to:
Maintenance and Safety
e) You must ensure all items that have undergone any process 
involving, heating and/or drying are spread, aired and allowed to 
individually cool before piling, stacking or packaging.
Mr M disagreed and thinks the term has been misinterpreted as he says it wasnt 
doing the process of piling, stacking or packaging at the time.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint she said she thought the policy term was 
clear in its intention as to why things need to be cooled before anything else is done 
to them, which is to prevent any accidents.
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. In my first provisional decision I was 
intending to uphold the complaint as the condition in the policy Lloyds had rejected the claim 
under, I felt the circumstances didnt match the condition it relied on. But Lloyds responded 
to this decision and in summary said;
The condition is to require B to take reasonable steps to mitigate the readily identifiable risk 
presented by items which are exposed to high temperatures (for example, when being 
tumble dried). It says it is at the drying stage that the heat is applied to items, and therefore it 
is at that stage in time that the risk of fire is created. The condition requires B to ensure that 
all items which had been subject to any process involving heat or drying are to be 'spread, 
aired and allowed to individually cool. The purpose of this condition is to allow the heat to 
dissipate after the drying process has ended, with a view to substantially reduce the risk of 
self-ignition and subsequent fire.
Lloyds said in order to ensure that this condition was complied with, B would be required to 
remove items from the dryer. If the items remained in the dryer, it would not be possible to 
spread and air them such that they could individually cool. They would remain in a pile within 
the dryer and the heat would not be able to dissipate. It is therefore implicit within the 
condition that prompt removal from the dryer (being the source of the heat, and an 
environment in which heat could not effectively dissipate) is essential.
Lloyds have also pointed to another term within the policy under the general policy condition.
The relevant section is Reasonable Precautions and reads:
You must;
a) take all reasonable precautions to prevent occurrences which may give rise to 
Damage or accidents
c) take immediate steps to make good or remedy any defect or danger which 
becomes apparent or take such additional precautions as circumstances may require 
otherwise Underwriters may refuse to pay Your claim(s) or provide indemnity under 
this Policy.
Lloyds say B didnt take all reasonable precautions (or even 'any' reasonable precautions),
as expressly required under this condition.
I issued my second provisional decision that said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the point Lloyds makes regarding the intention of the term in the policy and that 
it thinks the activities mentioned within the condition (piling, stacking and packaging) are 
themselves innocuous. It sees the risk derives from the process that precedes those 
activities; the application of heat and /or drying. Lloyds have said unless the items are 
removed from the dryer to be spread and aired, they remain in a 'pile' or a 'stack' (within the 
dryer). As such, it would be more appropriate to state that the condition seeks to protect 
against fires which are caused by items which have not been allowed (via spreading / airing) 
to individually cool.
Although I appreciate this may be the intention of the term, I think it can be open to 
interpretation and depends on how you read it. It possibly is intended to say items must be 
spread/aired/allowed to cool etc after any heating process. If the term was left there, it would 
simply mean that after any heating process, items need to be allowed to cool etc  which 
makes sense. But including the words at the end before piling, stacking or packaging. Does 
suggest thats the risk that needs to be avoided. And as I said within my provisional decision 
that wasnt the activity being done at the time.
However, Lloyds latter point regarding the term within the policy under reasonable 
precautions I agree is relevant to this complaint.The policyholders have an obligation under the policy to take reasonable precautions to 
avoid damage.
Im persuaded the policyholders are aware of the risk generally presented by tumble dryers 
as their usual practice is to empty the drum of the dryer once a cycle has finished. However, 
theyve been unable to say why they didnt follow this process on the day of the incident. 
This practice is further endorsed by the operating guidance provided by the manufacturer of 
the tumble dryer that instructs the user to Remove the load at the end of the cycle. The 
policyholders were also aware that the items had not laundered well so Im persuaded they 
didnt take reasonable precautions as required under the condition of the policy and I 
therefore dont think its fair and reasonable to expect an insurer to pay out a claim if its 
caused by the policyholders failure to take reasonable care. I therefore intend to not uphold 
the complaint and wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been no further responses from either party to the provisional decision issued on 
12 August 2021. As no further comments were received from the parties, Im satisfied that 
my provisional decision detailing my intention to not uphold the complaint represents an 
outcome thats fair and reasonable and I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman