DRN-2263894
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of service he received from Lifesearch Partners Limited when 
applying for personal protection insurance policies. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In December 2019, Lifesearch contacted Mr J following an online search hed made for life 
cover and explained that they could help search the market for him. Mr J agreed to this and 
provided Lifesearch with the relevant information including his medical history. An 
application was made to an insurer for three types of cover  a £400,000 life cover policy, a 
£40,000 critical illness policy and an income protection policy. Mr J was quoted monthly 
premiums of about £90 for the three policies, with about £33 attributed to the life cover 
policy.
Mr J was subsequently informed that the insurer couldnt offer the critical illness or income 
protection cover. And while they could offer the £400,000 life cover policy, it would cost 
about £92 per month instead. As this was considerably more than the initial quote, Mr J 
questioned the increase. The advisor explained it was due to Mr Js medical history and that 
he wasnt previously aware of a diabetes diagnosis.
Mr J complained to Lifesearch about this as he said hed made it clear to the adviser that 
hed been diagnosed with diabetes. He felt hed been deliberately misled by the adviser and 
explained that hed found the process of applying very stressful as a result. 
Lifesearch upheld the complaint. They accepted Mr J told them of his diabetes diagnosis and 
that their adviser ought to have informed him of the likelihood the premiums would increase 
(and the terms the insurer would likely offer might change). They also said their adviser 
shouldve also been honest about knowing Mr J was diagnosed with diabetes. Lifesearch 
apologised for what happened and explained feedback would be given to the adviser as well 
confirming that the appropriate disciplinary action would be taken. Lifesearch sent Mr J a 
£50 gift card for the concern this matter had caused him.
Mr J didnt think the £50 gift card was enough for the stress and dishonesty hed 
experienced. But he said hed be willing to accept £250 as a gift card. Lifesearch considered 
this and offered a further £25 gift card, which was declined. 
The matter was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Lifesearch had to do 
anything further. He said Mr J hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened 
and he thought the £50 gift card was a reasonable amount to recognise the inconvenience 
hed suffered.
Mr J disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
I looked into what happened and thought a further £100 compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. Lifesearch agreed to pay this but Mr J didnt think it was enough. He 
suggested £500 would be a fairer amount reflect the trouble this has caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr J will likely be disappointed by this outcome but I remain of the view that £100 
compensation, in addition to the £50 gift card already provided, is fair. And so, I wont be 
increasing this further. Ill explain why.
It isnt dispute that the level of service Mr J received fell short of the level expected. I think 
the adviser, given his experience with dealing with the insurance market, ought to have been 
aware that  if cover was offered  the premiums would likely be higher due to Mr Js 
medical conditions. The insurer had also made the adviser aware there would be a minimum 
of a 50% increase prior to application being made. So, I think Mr Js expectations for the cost 
of cover were poorly managed. I therefore think Mr Js concern, when told the life cover cost 
had roughly tripled, was understandable.
I also appreciate that Mr J is unhappy with the advisers dishonesty when saying he wasnt 
aware of the diabetes diagnosis. Ive listened to the calls between Mr J and Lifesearch and 
Im satisfied he disclosed this condition from the outset. Its unclear why the adviser said he 
wasnt aware of the diagnosis. I realise Mr J feels very strongly about this dishonesty and 
why he wants action to be taken to prevent it from happening again. But I think Lifesearch 
has taken this matter seriously by providing feedback to the adviser and confirming that the 
appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.
Ive given careful consideration to what amount of compensation is fair here. Ive taken what 
Mr J has said in to account and I appreciate that he invested a lot of time applying for the 
policies. But I think it is important to note that Mr J wanted personal protection in place and 
so its reasonable to expect him to spend time going through an application process. I 
therefore dont think I can fairly conclude that the poor service he did receive accounts for 
the entire time he spent applying for the polices. Furthermore, Mr Js health conditions 
wouldve always required consideration by the insurer  so, there wasnt a delay because of 
the advisers failings.  
It doesnt appear that Mr J has suffered a financial loss as a result of whats happened. I am 
however satisfied he was inconvenienced and that it caused him upset that couldve been 
avoided. I know Mr J doesnt think the compensation thats been considered is enough and 
that hes previously made reference to a deterrent. But I think it would be helpful for me to 
explain that our service isnt here to punish businesses. Instead, we can award 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused by a businesses error(s). In this 
case, I think a further £100 is a reasonable amount to recognise what happened and the 
impact this had on Mr J.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr J is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I think an 
additional £100 compensation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Lifesearch Partners Limited should pay 
Mr J £100 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman