DRN-4078425
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) wrongly advised him to take 
out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. Aviva has accepted 
that its representative may not have made Mr L aware of the in-house AVC options that were 
available to him within his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) at the time of the sale. And 
has offered him financial redress. But Mr L is unhappy with the method of calculation for that 
redress. 
Mr L is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
Mr Ls FSAVC was taken out with another business. But Aviva is responsible for the 
complaint. And Ill only refer to it in my decision. 
What happened
In September 1996, Mr L started an FSAVC plan alongside his OPS. I understand that he 
initially made gross monthly contributions of £40 into the FSAVC, but that his contributions 
increased annually by 5% or RPI if higher. Mr Ls contributions stopped in February 2019. 
Aviva said that Mr L was solely invested in the managed fund which had a rating consistent 
with a moderate level of risk. 
At the time of the advice, Mr L was aged 37 and had been a member of his OPS since 1 
September 1982. Within that OPS, he had the potential to build up 36 years service before 
his normal retirement age of 60, meaning there was a shortfall of around four years in his 
maximum service under the scheme rules. 
Mr L complained about the advice hed been given to start the FSAVC plan. 
Aviva asked Mr Ls OPS to provide his service history. This showed that Mr L had joined the 
OPS when he was 23, and left it when he was 57. It also showed that he had total breaks in 
service of almost six years. 
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 12 January 2022. It accepted that the 
FSAVC had been mis-sold to Mr L, as it couldnt evidence its representative had made him 
aware of the in-house options available to him in his OPS. But it said the relatively short 
period of time in which Mr L mightve attempted to purchase added years, as well as his 
service history, meant that it didnt consider added years to be an appropriate form of 
redress.
Aviva issued a further final response and offer of redress on 26 January 2022. It offered to 
compensate Mr L on the basis that he wouldve chosen the in-house AVC option rather than 
deciding to purchase added years through the scheme. It proposed to calculate the redress 
based on a charges only comparison between Mr Ls FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC 
plan connected to his OPS. It said that the outcome of the loss assessment was that the 
advice to take out the FSAVC plan had led to a financial loss of £3,031.37 (gross). After a 
deduction of 15% to reflect the fact that if the redress had been invested in a pension plan, 
75% of the benefit wouldve at some point provided a taxable income, Aviva offered Mr L a 
cash payment of £2,576.66.
Mr Ls CMC wrote to Aviva on 26 January 2022 to appeal the methodology of its calculation. 
It felt that Mr Ls age and intended retirement age at the time of the advice disproved Avivas 
point that he had a relatively short period of time to purchase added years. It also felt that 
Aviva shouldnt have mentioned Mr Ls service history in its decision. Instead, it felt Aviva 
shouldve based its decision on the facts that were available at the time of the advice in 
1996. Mr Ls CMC also said that Mr L's FSAVC had been set up on an increasing basis, 
which showed he was willing to increase his contributions over time. It therefore felt that 
added years wouldve been appropriate for him. An asked for the redress calculation to be 
carried out on that basis. 
Aviva replied again to Mr Ls CMC on 21 February 2022. It still felt that Mr L wouldve been 
more likely to have chosen the in-house AVC option. And confirmed that a charges only 
loss assessment had been carried out on that basis. It said itd upheld his original complaint 
because there was insufficient evidence that the alternatives were discussed in accordance 
with the guidelines. But it said that didnt mean it had agreed the FSAVC policy had been 
mis-sold, as it felt that recommending an AVC was suitable.
Aviva felt that just because Mr L had decided to automatically increase his contributions to 
his FSAVC plan over time, it would be wrong to conclude that he wouldve automatically 
selected added years.  It also said that Mr Ls initial contribution had only been £40 each 
month. And noted that the added years option wouldve meant that his contributions 
wouldve had to increase to an unknown amount due to salary rises and promotions. It said 
Mr L had never asked to further increase his contributions above indexation. 
Mr L didnt agree with Avivas proposed method of redress. So he brought his complaint to 
this service, through his CMC. Mr Ls CMC felt the redress should be based on Mr L having 
chosen the in-house added years option. It said that although it agreed that the in-house 
AVC mayve been the better option for a consumer who moved jobs regularly and was likely 
to be an early leaver, this wasnt the case for Mr L, who had already been a teacher for 14 
years at the time of the FSAVC sale. It also felt that Aviva had failed to assess or record Mr 
Ls Attitude To Risk (ATR) correctly. And said that there was nothing to suggest that Mr L's 
ATR was anything other than cautious.
Our investigator first looked at whether the complaint was one this service could consider. 
He felt that although the sale of the FSAVC plan had taken place more than six years before 
Mr L had raised a complaint, hed seen no evidence that Mr L shouldve reasonably been 
aware he had cause to complain until 2021. Therefore he felt the complaint was one we 
could consider.
Our investigator didnt consider that the merits of the complaint should be upheld. He felt that 
added years were generally a more expensive product than an in-house AVC. And the 
projected returns at the time of the sale also made the potential returns for an in-house AVC 
look very appealing. He also felt that the in-house AVC option offered flexibility, while the 
added years option required a commitment to increasing premiums running all the way up to 
retirement. So he wasnt persuaded that Mr L wouldve purchased added years if hed been 
properly advised. He felt he wouldve contributed to his in-house AVC. 
Mr Ls CMC didnt agree with our investigator. It felt that Mr L wouldve chosen added years 
through his OPS if hed been encouraged to explore the options in his OPS. It made the 
following points:
Although it appeared that Mr Ls monthly contributions hadnt been big enough to buy the four added years Mr L was eligible to buy, he couldve still used his affordable 
contributions to buy some added years.
If Mr L had been correctly advised, he couldve made an informed choice between 
the in-house options, rather than setting up the FSAVC plan.
It still felt there was nothing to suggest that Mr L was anything but a cautious/no risk 
investor.
Added years wouldve been the more natural choice for someone like Mr L, who 
appeared committed to his employment and likely to continue in his role until 
retirement. 
It didnt agree with our investigator that added years were generally a more 
expensive product than an in-house AVC. Nor did it agree that Mr L wouldve 
preferred the in-house AVC option due to it appearing more flexible or profitable than 
the added years option. It said he didnt need the flexibility and would've preferred a 
guaranteed return.
It referenced a previous case that had been considered and upheld by this service 
which it felt was very similar to this one. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 8 March 2023. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I agree with our investigator that the complaint is one this service can consider, for the same 
reasons he outlined in his view. So Ive gone on to consider the merits of the complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Having consider the evidence, I dont intend to uphold the complaint. From the little evidence 
Ive seen, I consider that Aviva acted fairly when, on balance, it considered that if Mr L had 
been properly advised, he wouldve concluded that his employers AVC scheme was more 
cost effective than the FSAVC. And that he wouldve chosen the in-house AVC scheme over 
the added years option if itd been explained to him. 
Im issuing this as a provisional decision because my reasons for not intending to uphold the 
complaint are slightly different from our investigators. And in case Mr L is able to provide 
evidence that Ive based this decision on incorrect salary and added years cost information. 
Or if either he or Aviva is able to find documentary information from the time of sale. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Aviva cant locate a sales or policy file for Mr L, despite repeated attempts to find them. But it 
said that as the legacy FSAVC plan Mr L had purchased had been predominately sold 
through its agents, it would give Mr L reasonable doubt and work on the basis that its 
representative advised him on the purchase of his FSAVC plan. 
Aviva also said that, as there was no sales file, it would uphold the complaint on the basis 
that it couldnt determine what advice or references to the in-house AVC scheme mayve been given.
Avivas representative at the time of the sale was tied, which meant he could only 
recommend Avivas products to Mr L. But the representative still had to comply with 
regulatory guidance for the sale of FSAVCs. The guidance at the time required the adviser 
to: 
-Draw Mr L's attention to the in-house alternative scheme. 
-Discuss the generic differences between the two routes.
-Direct Mr L to his employer or his OPS for more information on the in-house option. 
Aviva clarified its position in its 21 February 2022 letter to Mr Ls CMC. It said: In upholding 
this FSAVC mis-selling complaint its because there is insufficient evidence the alternatives 
were discussed in accordance with the guidelines. However, this doesnt mean weve agreed 
the policy was mis-sold, as recommending an AVC was suitable.
Aviva has told this service that as it didnt hold either the fact find or any other sales 
documentation, it had no evidence of the ATR assessment that wouldve been carried out. It 
also said that it didnt know the specific cost of added years, as it didnt know Mr Ls salary 
history. 
However, Aviva has suggested that someone with Mr Ls level of experience in his job 
wouldve been paid around £29,000 each year at the time of the advice. It also suggested 
that Mr L wouldve had to contribute around 6% of his salary each year if hed wanted to take 
the added years option. This 6% figure is consistent with the previous similar complaint Mr 
Ls CMC referenced. In the absence of a more accurate figure, Ive used this in my decision. 
Aviva has, however, been able to provide Mr Ls OPS service record and his full contribution 
history in his FSAVC plan. 
Mr Ls CMC told us that Mr L didnt recall his exact salary at the time of the sale.  It also 
couldnt provide evidence of the cost and rules of buying added years in Mr Ls OPS. 
Instead, it provided a cost table it had used for other complaints. But I didnt feel that table 
could fairly be used here, as I have no evidence that it relates to the same OPS. Mr Ls CMC 
also told us that Mr L was only a member of his OPS at the time of sale. And that he took out 
the FSAVC plan to run alongside it. 
Ive thought about whether Mr L wouldve been better advised to consider buying added 
years in his OPS, given his circumstances at the time of the sale. Mr L was 37 years old and 
had been in his job for 14 years. Given his work history and the nature of his profession, Im 
satisfied that he was likely to remain within that profession until his expected retirement date.
I agree with Mr L that Aviva shouldnt have made any argument when defending the 
complaint based on what we now know happened after the advice. In this case, we now 
know Mr L took a few years away from the employment connected to his OPS, and retired 
earlier than expected. But that knowledge isnt relevant to the complaint or how it should be 
resolved.
In his 2 November 2021 complaint to Aviva, Mr L said he was looking to increase his 
retirement provisions as much as possible. I think its reasonable to assume that this means 
hed decided to pay as much as he could afford into the FSAVC plan. His contributions 
started at £40 each month.Neither Aviva nor Mr L have provided any information about his income and expenditure 
from the point of sale, so I cant accurately establish Mr L couldve afforded to buy additional 
years, and if so, how many he couldve bought. However, I can make a broad assessment 
based on the information I have been provided with.
I dont know what percentage of Mr Ls salary the £40 each month constituted. But I can 
reasonably assume that it was affordable because Mr L continued to pay it, and the agreed 
annual increases. 
I also dont know exactly what the cost of the added years in Mr Ls OPS wouldve been. So 
Ive had to base my decision on Avivas estimates that someone with Mr Ls level of 
experience wouldve been paid around £29,000 each year at the time of the advice. And that 
each added year wouldve required Mr L to contribute around 6% of his salary each year.
A contribution of £40 each month would be equivalent to 1.66% of this salary. This is only 
around a quarter of what Mr L wouldve had to pay if hed wanted to buy the maximum 
number of added years.  
Mr Ls CMC said that businesses always assume that anyone who bought added years 
would only do so if they were going to buy the full amount to reach maximum service. But it 
didnt agree that this was the case. It felt that Mr L couldve contacted his OPS and asked it 
how many added years he couldve purchased with £40 each month. It felt that if hed been 
encouraged to explore the options in his OPS, he wouldve been in a position to make an 
informed choice. But, as Aviva had acknowledged it couldnt evidence its representative had 
done this, it felt Mr L hadnt been encouraged to explore his OPS options, and so couldnt 
make an informed choice.
I acknowledge Mr Ls CMCs point here. But Aviva said that Mr L had never asked to further 
increase his contributions above indexation  and I can see that from the premium history. 
And given it appears that Mr Ls premium would only potentially buy up to a year of added 
service, Im not persuaded that, if he had been able to make an informed choice, he 
wouldve chosen that option. 
I say this because at the time if the advice, AVC projected mid-rate returns wouldve been 
between 7% and 9%, so high compared with todays rates. If Mr L had chosen the added 
years option, he wouldve been faced with paying contributions, which would increase at an 
unknown amount over time, just to achieve around a year of added service  or, to put it 
another way, to take his potential service with his OPS from 36 years to 37. Therefore I think 
he wouldve been more likely to have chosen the in-house AVC option, as I consider the 
relatively high returns used at the time wouldve made the possible benefits from this option 
look favourable when compared with the added years option. I also consider that the fact 
that Mr L never further increased his contributions above indexation shows that he wouldnt 
have wanted to face the unknown contribution increases attached to the added years option.
While I cant know for certain what Mr L wouldve done had he been able to make an 
informed choice at the time of sale, Im more persuaded that he wouldve chosen the in-
house AVC option. I say this because of the relatively attractive returns that wouldve been 
used to illustrate the likely benefits at retirement, compared with the relatively small change 
to Mr Ls potential service in his OPS. 
I also acknowledge Mrs CMCs point that there was no justifiable reason for Mr L to have 
chosen the FSAVC plan for the flexibility it mightve offered him. And that added years 
wouldve been the more natural choice for someone like him, as he appeared committed to 
his employment. I agree that he was likely to remain in the same employment until his 
retirement. But this doesnt persuade me that Mr L wouldve chosen the in-house added years option rather than the in-house AVC option, for the reasons Ive described above.
Ive also considered Mr Ls complaint that Avivas representative failed to accurately assess 
the level of risk he was willing to take. His CMC said there was nothing to suggest that Mr L 
was anything but a cautious/no risk investor.
Aviva has confirmed that Mr Ls FSAVC plan was invested in its managed fund, which has a 
rating consistent with a moderate level of risk. But Ive not been presented with any evidence 
that Aviva failed to accurately assess the level of risk Mr L was prepared to take in his 
FSAVC plan investments. If Mr L has any evidence to show that he wasnt able to accept a 
moderate level of risk at the time of the advice, I would be happy to consider it. 
Mr Ls CMC has referenced an earlier case that came to this service and was upheld. It felt 
that case was very similar to this one. But I consider that this case is substantially different 
because there is no information from the point of sale. Aviva has upheld the complaint on the 
basis that it doesnt have any evidence to show its representative had made Mr L aware of 
the in-house arrangements available to members of his OPS.
Mr L hasnt provided any evidence from the time of the sale either. So, as I noted above, we 
dont even know what percentage of his salary Mr L was paying into the FSAVC, or what his 
salary was. And we dont know what the added years wouldve cost. While Mr Ls CMC has 
provided actuarial tables its used in other cases, I cant use those tables without being 
certain they relate to Mr Ls OPS. 
Therefore, unless Mr L can provide further evidence which shows that he wouldve been 
more likely than not to have chosen the added years option, had his options being explained 
to him, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Aviva to calculate the redress 
based on added years. 
Based on the limited evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve purchased 
added years. I say this because I consider that the level of contributions he was paying, 
coupled with the cost and commitment of the added years option, wouldnt have compared 
favourably with the relatively high investment returns that wouldve been used for the AVC 
illustration. So I consider that Mr L wouldve selected the in-house AVC option if hed been 
properly advised.
As such, I dont intend to uphold this complaint, as I consider Aviva has taken reasonable 
steps to put things right. But if Mr L is able to provide any further evidence that would show 
my decision to be flawed, I would be happy to consider it. 
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva said it had nothing to add. But said that if Mr L came back to me with any additional 
information it would like the opportunity to respond.
Mr Ls CMC didnt agree with my decision. It made the following points:
It was surprised I hadnt felt able to accept the cost table it had previously provided 
for added years. It felt Id accepted without question what Aviva had said about salary 
and the cost of added years. 
It felt that as Aviva had acknowledged that it didnt hold either the fact find or any 
other sales documentation, it had no evidence of the ATR assessment that wouldve 
been carried out. And that in the absence of any ATR evidence being provided, this 
service should take note that Mr L believed he was risk adverse for his pension provision. It said that in line with the conduct of business rules, the business must 
keep its records for FSAVC sales indefinitely. And that the burden of proof should be 
with the business rather than Mr L.
Mr Ls CMC provided information from Mr Ls OPS, including his salary information. It 
said his salary at the time of the advice was £26,823. Based on this, his CMC said Mr 
L couldve afforded over two additional years of extra service with his initial FSAVC 
contribution level. It also felt that although Mr L had never asked to further increase 
his contributions above indexation, Aviva had never asked him to. 
Mr Ls CMC didnt agree that if Mr L had chosen the added years option he wouldve 
been faced with paying contributions which increased at an unknown amount over 
time, or that because Mr L had never increased his contributions above indexation he 
wouldnt have wanted to face the unknown contribution increases attached to the 
added years option. It felt that the added years option was set as a percentage of 
salary which would remain constant over time, although it acknowledged that the 
monetary amount would change over time. 
The investment returns used at the time of the advice werent appropriate, as the 
CMC felt they were largely based on past returns. And because the adviser couldnt 
predict the future.  So it was unfair for me to have based my decision on those 
returns. Especially as Mr L couldve bought more added years than Id said in my PD. 
Aviva noted Mr Ls CMCs comments and made the following points:
It agreed it was unfortunate that the sales file for this case was absent. And said that 
it had upheld the complaint due to a lack of evidence about what advice was given. 
But Aviva said that rather than rely on Mr Ls recollections from the time of the 
advice, it was more appropriate to note that his fund choice was and remained a 
managed fund with a risk rating of 4 out of a maximum of 7. It didnt consider that this 
was the investment choice of a customer who was risk adverse.
Aviva noted the salary information provided. And said it needed to be remembered 
that a discussion regarding the affordable number of added years and what this 
benefit may look like wasnt something its adviser wouldve been able to undertake or 
provide a recommendation on. Instead, they could only refer Mr L to his OPS to get 
information.
It agreed with my view that the potential benefits available for the same premium 
from an FSAVC would be a significant draw to the product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I first considered Mr Ls CMCs point about his ATR.
ATR assessment
Aviva has acknowledged that the absence of the sales file means it couldnt be certain what 
advice was given, so it upheld the original complaint. This complaint simply relates to the 
basis for financial redress Aviva has offered. Given theres no sales file, theres no evidence of the ATR assessment that wouldve been 
carried out. Mr Ls CMC considers that this means this service should base its decision on 
the fact that Mr L believed he was risk adverse for his pension provision. But Aviva think that 
its better to note that Mr Ls fund choice was and remained a managed fund with a risk 
rating of 4 out of a maximum of 7. So it didnt believe that this showed Mr L had been risk 
adverse at the time of the advice. 
Based on the fund choice evidence, I agree with Aviva here. I say this because theres no 
evidence that Mr L ever questioned his fund choice, or changed it over time. And because I 
agree that the fund he chose cant reasonably considered low risk.
I next considered Mr Ls CMCs point about the investment returns used at the time of the 
advice.
Investment returns used at the time of the advice
Mr Ls CMC felt that the investment returns used for the FSAVC projections werent 
appropriate, and were impossible to predict. Therefore it felt it was unfair for me to base my 
decision on those returns. 
Aviva agreed with my view that the potential benefits available for the same premium from 
an FSAVC would be a significant draw to the product.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ls CMCs point here, but I dont agree. Although I acknowledge 
that Mr Ls CMC considers that the investment returns used werent appropriate, they were 
the ones the regulator required businesses to use for this purpose at the time. 
I also remain of the view that the relatively high returns  which I think wouldve been fairly 
used at the time - wouldve made the possible benefits from the FSAVC option look 
favourable when compared with the added years option. 
I finally considered Mr Ls CMCs points about the number of added years Mr L couldve 
actually purchased, based on his salary at the time of the advice, the cost of added years, 
and his initial FSAVC contribution of £40 each month. 
Number of added years
Mr Ls CMC said Mr L couldve afforded over two additional years of extra service with his 
initial FSAVC contribution level.
I also note that Mr Ls CMC didnt agree that the added years option had a changing and 
unknowable cost over time when considered as a percentage of salary. Mr Ls CMC didnt 
agree that the fact that Mr L had never increased his contributions above indexation showed 
that he wouldnt have wanted to face the unknown contribution increases attached to the 
added years option. It also said that Aviva had never asked Mr L to increase his 
contributions above indexation.
Aviva said that its adviser couldnt have provided a recommendation on the affordable 
number of added years and what this benefit may look like. But could only refer Mr L to his 
OPS to get information.
I acknowledge that Mr Ls CMC considers that Aviva is at least partly responsible for Mr Ls 
premiums never increasing above indexation. But Ive still seen no evidence that Mr L 
wouldve wanted to face the unknown monetary contribution increases attached to the added 
years option. I do however agree that the percentage cost of the added years option wouldve been known. But as I noted earlier, Im of the view that the FSAVC option mightve 
looked favourable when compared with the added years option, given the relatively high 
projected returns that were in use at the time of the advice.
I acknowledge that Mr Ls CMC was surprised I hadnt felt able to accept the cost table it had 
previously provided for added years. But Im glad that it has now been able to provide 
accurate salary and cost of added years information. This shows that, rather than the 
approximately one added year I had initially estimated Mr L couldve purchased with his 
initial FSAVC contribution, he couldve actually purchased a little more than two added 
years. 
Despite the fact that the evidence now shows that just over two added years couldve been 
purchased, I remain of the view that if Mr L had chosen the added years option, he wouldve 
been faced with paying contributions which would increase at an unknown monetary amount 
over time, just to achieve a little over two years of added service. This wouldve taken his 
potential service with his OPS from 36 years to 38. 
I remain of the view that Mr L wouldve selected the in-house AVC option if hed been 
properly advised. And I therefore dont uphold the complaint, as I consider that Aviva has 
taken reasonable steps to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman