DRN-4525142
The complaint
A limited company P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the
loss they suffered when they sent money to an HSBC account as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 P was the victim of an email
interception scam. As a result of this on 1 October 2021 P sent a payment of €79,922.20 to
an account held with HSBC. At the time P believed this to be the next payment instalment
towards an investment opportunity with a firm Ill refer to as E. But they later realised the
email had been interfered with and the account details changed  meaning the genuine E
hadnt received their money.
On 11 October 2021 Ps own bank S informed HSBC of this. HSBC responded and said
that funds remained, but ultimately this was only around €17.50. P complained to HSBC - in
summary they said HSBCs response was vague communication about what remained in the
account. And that HSBC had allowed a scammer to open and operate an account. HSBC
didnt think theyd done anything wrong, and the matter was referred to our service.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld.
HSBC accepted this outcome, but P didnt. They asked for an Ombudsman to make a
decision.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing
this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising
my decision.
I dont think that the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code
(CRM Code) applies to the circumstances of this complaint. The CRM code only applies to
payments made in pounds sterling to and from UK banks. Here, S appear to be based
outside the UK and in any case the payment was sent in euros. So, I dont think HSBC not
considering reimbursement under the CRM Code was unfair nor unreasonable.
Im satisfied that HSBC correctly followed their account opening process for the account that
received money from P. I can see that they took valid identity documents, proof of address
and a selfie of the accountholder, along with conducting further electronic ID and verification
checks. I dont think there was anything at this stage that would have indicated that the
account might later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think
there was a failure by HSBC whilst opening the account which resulted in Ps loss.
P have argued that the wording HSBC used in initially telling S that funds remained was
vague and that this impacted their ability to recover their loss. I dont agree that is the case.
Even if I were to find that the wording was vague (something I make no finding on), I dont
think this would have made a difference. HSBCs follow-on message the next day referred to
minimal funds. And I dont think its at all likely that in that time period P would have done
anything that would have impacted their ability to have recovered their lost funds from any
other source.
For a complaint of this nature, Id usually next go on to consider the activity on the account
that received the funds from P, with a view to assessing whether there was unusual or
suspicious activity, such that HSBC ought to have intervened or otherwise done more. But
here, HSBC have evidenced that despite searching their systems, they no longer have
statements for the recipient account. Inevitably this means that I must make my findings on
the balance of probability, taking account of the information that is available.
The evidence I have indicates that the account was opened in May 2021 and was a foreign
currency account. The information HSBC knew about their customer was that they were an
unskilled worker in the retail sector with an annual income of around £22,000. Given this
information, I think a significant incoming payment of nearly €80,000 (representing nearly
four years salary to their customer) is something that would have stood out. And I think it
should have put HSBC on heightened alert to be monitoring the account.
I also accept that its most likely HSBC correctly stated that only €17.50 remained in the
account upon notification (on 11 October 2021). So we can also safely conclude that almost
€80,000 was spent or otherwise moved on from the account between 1 and 11 October
2021. This fits in with what I know for the account activity usually seen upon the receipt of
fraudulent funds. In the vast majority of cases, the money is promptly spent or transferred.
Presumably as the scammer will be concerned about the fraud being discovered and the
account frozen.
And in the absence of any other evidence as to the activity on the account, I think its most
likely that there would have been a significant outgoing payment soon after the arrival of Ps
funds. Given I think HSBC should have been paying attention to this account, I think the
outgoing payment should have been stopped and the account blocked.
HSBC then would have seen that their customer may not have been the intended beneficiary
of the payment from P. I say this because the evidence P has provided shows that they put
E down as the beneficiary of the payment. And this clearly would have shown that the
intended beneficiary was a business of some sort with no obvious connection to the named
accountholder of the recipient account.
When the scam was reported HSBC attempted to contact their customer to ask about the
incoming payment. But it seems there was no response. So, I think had HSBC attempted to
speak to their customer at the time, the same would have happened and I dont think they
would have received a response. But even if they had, I dont think that the accountholder
would have provided a plausible explanation for the beneficiary name mismatch and that
they would have been able to evidence their entitlement to the funds before the scam report
was received (10 days later). As such, I think all of Ps money would have remained
available for recovery and that this would have been returned soon after.
Ive also considered whether P should bear some responsibility for their own loss such that I
should make a reduction for contributory negligence. And Im not intending to in the
circumstances of this complaint. Ive seen the communication requesting the next payment
to E (which was expected) and I dont think there was anything that would have shown this
to obviously have been a scam or suspicious at the time. P have also said their payment
request was submitted to their bank in writing. And Ive not seen evidence to support thattheir own bank provided a scam warning which P disregarded. Overall, I dont think P either
knew or reasonably ought to have known at the time that there was a potential problem but
continued to instruct the payment despite this.
Putting things Right
Im intending to direct that HSBC pays P their full loss of €79,922.20. Its unclear whether the
€17.50 that remained has already been returned. So HSBC may deduct from the €79,922.20
any amount already recovered and returned to P.
I also think that 8% simple interest yearly should be added to compensate P for being
without funds they otherwise would have had access to. It seems that S provided an
indemnity in late October 2021. And as international funds being returned would likely have
taken a few weeks to facilitate (and HSBC say their policy on this is to do so within 30
working days), I think its likely the funds would have been returned on 1 November 2021. As
such the 8% interest should be calculated between 1 November 2021 and the date of
settlement.
P responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. HSBC responded with some 
further comments. Part of HSBCs further submissions concern Ps eligibility to bring a 
complaint to our service within our jurisdiction rules. Having since shared some further 
evidence about P, HSBC have said they will accept what our service has said about our 
jurisdiction, so I dont need to comment further on that point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of their further submissions HSBC were able to locate the statements in relation to 
the recipient account. These showed the account activity to be as I suggested it would likely 
be in my provisional decision. Essentially after the arrival of Ps funds, in the days that 
followed there were transfers and payments for the full amount excluding the €17.50 that 
was later recovered. 
The first such outgoing payment was for over €28,000. And I maintain that this is something 
that ought to have prompted HSBC to have stopped the payment and I think its most likely 
that events would have played out as Ive set out above in my provisional decision. 
Ultimately resulting in the recovery of the full amount sent by P. 
HSBC have also questioned whether, as a business, P ought to have done more to have an 
awareness of scams that they might come across in the course of their business. And whilst 
HSBC acknowledged this complaint was about them, not Ps bank S, they also questioned 
whether S did all they should in the circumstances. 
Ive already considered whether P should bear some responsibility for their own loss and 
referenced this in my provisional decision. P confirmed that the payment instruction was sent 
to S in written form and then processed from their account. They said that there wasnt 
further interaction and that no warnings were provided. So I maintain that this isnt a case 
where warnings were given and ignored such that a reduction in award would be appropriate 
on that basis. 
Im also not persuaded that (particularly in 2021) a business of Ps size (and highlighting that 
the director is the sole employee) not having educated itself fully about email interception scams is a basis upon which I should fairly reduce my intended award. It is of course easy to 
propose such things in hindsight, but I still dont think that when instructing the payment P 
knew or suspected there was a potential problem but continued despite this.  
Overall, having considered all the further submissions, Im not persuaded to deviate from the 
outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay P their full loss of €79,922.20. Its unclear whether the
€17.50 that remained has already been returned. So HSBC may deduct from the €79,922.20
any amount already recovered and returned to P.
8% simple interest yearly should be added to compensate P for being without funds they 
otherwise would have had access to. This should be calculated between 1 November 2021 
and the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK 
Bank Plc must take the steps outlined at Putting things Right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman