DRN-3193177
The complaint
Ms R complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Ms R was given loans by TFS as follows: 
Loan Date AmountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentInterest
1 September
2011£4,000 60 £183.15 £7,058
2 April 2015 £6,500 60 £242.02 £8,021.20
Ms R said that TFS failed to carry out appropriate affordability checks before agreeing these 
loans and that this lending caused her and her family financial stress as she struggled to 
make the loan repayments.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Rs complaint. He didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided the loans to Ms R and he set out the steps that TFS needed to 
take to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigators view. It mainly said that:
proof of income was supplied and reconfirmed with bank statements
Ms R did have a negative credit history in terms of missed payments and defaults, 
but this was quite some time before this application and wasnt enough on its own to 
say the loan shouldnt have been approved
searches didnt suggest Ms R was reliant on borrowing to sustain her credit 
commitments
bank statements received during the application showed the income received, no 
overdraft facility being used, no charges being incurred except on a couple of 
occasions and Ms R was managing her finances
the lending was affordable for her.
TFS asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so it comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh 
and independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my 
reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When she applied for loan 1,TFS asked Ms R about her income (which it took steps to 
check) and enquired about how much she spent on rent and/or mortgage as well as carrying 
out credit checks. It sent this information to us so Ive been able to see information that TFS 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Ms R. 
The income and expenditure assessment done by TFS suggested that the loan potentially 
looked affordable for Ms R. When looking at what she could afford, it worked out that Ms R 
would be left with an amount of at least £1,200 after paying her TFS loan. So TFS felt this 
loan was affordable for Ms R.
But like our investigator, I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the 
information it had gathered showed about Ms Rs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of her being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think TFS made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Ms R based on the information it had gathered.I say this because, despite recording information that appeared to show that Ms R had 
enough spare cash each month easily to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 
TFS shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information. I say this because TFS 
doesnt seem to have allowed for Ms R needing to pay anything other than £296 
towards rent/mortgage and £277 towards her existing credit commitments  which 
seems unlikely to me, as its hard to understand why she would have needed to 
borrow this loan if that was the case. 
So I dont think it was reasonable to assume she would have had as much disposable 
income as it thought. And I think that concern should have been borne out by the fact 
that TFS could see that what Ms R had declared about her financial situation overall 
was significantly at odds with what TFS saw on its credit checks showing Ms Rs credit 
history. 
Our investigator set out in some detail the evidence of multiple defaulted accounts that TFS 
could see on the credit checks it obtained. I can appreciate that repaying older defaults 
might not have been a priority for Ms R. But at the same time, according to the affordability 
calculations TFS did it ought to have been easily affordable for her to make some 
repayments to her old debts. And the fact that she had two defaults registered against her 
just 10 months earlier should have been of particular concern to TFS as a responsible 
lender.
I dont think anything Ms R said to TFS was enough to properly explain her evident payment 
problems which dated back a number of years and appeared to be ongoing.
Our investigator felt that TFS wasnt able to say in these circumstances that Ms R was in a 
position where it could safely say it looked likely shed be able to sustainably afford the 
repayments on this loan for the next five years  and I agree.
I think TFS should have realised that what it saw on its credit checks painted a very different 
picture of her financial situation to the one Ms R had described. And like our investigator, 
I think this credit history strongly suggested Ms R was still having serious money problems. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent to TFS that Ms R probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that its calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash. The signs were 
that her finances were, in reality, under significant stress and the fact that she was applying 
to borrow this loan to repay other debt suggested her existing credit commitments were 
unmanageable. And there was a significant risk that taking out this loan with TFS would be 
detrimental to Ms Rs financial situation overall.
In saying this, I've taken into account that the stated main purpose of the loan was to 
consolidate some of Ms Rs debt and reduce her monthly repayments  but this doesnt 
affect my view overall that TFS didnt make a fair lending decision.
I dont think using this loan to repay the existing debt she mentioned to TFS was enough to 
give TFS sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved Ms Rs overall position sufficiently 
to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation, given her 
outstanding indebtedness overall. And based on all the information TFS had gathered, 
I dont think it was reasonably able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Ms R. 
The fact that Ms R paid the loan satisfactorily until she took out loan 2 (which was partly 
used to clear the outstanding balance on loan 1) doesnt mean that she was able to do so in 
a way that was sustainable for her.And I think thats borne out by the credit checks TFS obtained when Ms R applied for loan 2 
 which revealed that her money problems had got worse. This showed that she had 
incurred further defaults since borrowing from TFS and just a month or so before applying for 
loan 2 a county court judgement was obtained against her in respect of an unpaid £710 debt.
So I dont think TFS could have had any reasonable expectation that loan 2 was likely 
to be sustainably affordable for Ms R  especially given that it knew it would add to her 
overall debt in circumstances where she was struggling to make repayments due on 
her existing credit commitments.
In these circumstances, I cannot reasonably say that TFS made fair lending decisions 
based on the information in front of it when it provided either of these loans. 
As Ms R has been further indebted with the costs of loans that she shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what TFS did wrong. So, 
I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Ms R has 
said she is happy with our investigators assessment and I havent seen anything which 
makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Ms R in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms R to repay the principal amounts that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms R received as a result of being given the 
loans. The payments Ms R made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Ms R having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms R bearing in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions 
whilst its fair that Ms Rs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about loans that were unfairly provided. So TFS should remove any adverse 
information it placed on Ms Rs credit file regarding these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Rs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman