DRN-2526103
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Accounts (URCA), which were sold to him in February 2010 and January 
2013.
What happened
Mr W has complained, via a representative, that the accounts were mis-sold for a number of 
reasons. These include that it was not made clear to Mr W what the concept of a packaged 
account was or that the monthly fee was in return for a range of benefits and fee-free options 
was not presented to him. He also says he was mis-lead into thinking that he would not be 
able to obtain a loan and overdraft in the future unless he had a packaged account. 
Mr W says he feels Halifax took advantage of his lack of understanding of the banking 
system and English language and was led to believe that opening an URCA was the best 
way to improve his credit score.
One of our adjudicators established that our service is unable to look into the URCA sale 
that took place in 2010. She then went on to assess the complaint about the URCA sold in 
2013 and she ultimately didnt think that the URCA had been mis-sold. 
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about the URCA sold in 2013 and asked 
for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
As it has already been established that our service cannot consider the complaint about the 
URCA sold in 2010, this decision will only address whether the URCA sold in 2013 was mis-
sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to decide what to do about Mr Ws complaint. And having done so, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr W has said that the URCA sold in 2013 was mis-sold because he did not understand the 
concept of a packaged account and also says that a fee-free option was not offered to him. 
But Mr W had held a fee-free account for around a year when the URCA was sold to him, 
and had held the same packaged account before that. So Im satisfied that he was aware 
fee-free accounts were generally available and that he did not have to have a fee-paying 
packaged account if he did not want one.
Mr W says that he was led to believe he had to have the URCA to obtain loans or overdrafts 
in the future. But, I can see he already had an arranged overdraft limit of £100 before he 
agreed to the URCA. And I cant see that he ever applied for a loan, or to increase his 
overdraft limit. So again Im not persuaded by Mr Ws comments that he was mis-led into 
thinking his only option of obtaining such products was by having the URCA. So I think he 
agreed to the URCA knowing that it was optional and he chose to do so.
I cant see that the URCA was recommended to Mr W. This means that Halifax was not 
obliged to check if it was right for him. But it was still required to provide Mr W with enough 
information about the account so that he understood what he was agreeing to.
When the URCA was sold to Mr W, it cost £15 a month. One of the benefits it provided was 
a charge-free overdraft facility of up to £300. As Mr Ws arranged limit was always £100, the 
URCA overdraft benefit was limited to this amount. 
Nevertheless, the URCA included a benefit that meant Mr W wouldnt have to pay the £1 
daily fee (that applied to fee-free accounts when overdrawn), whenever he remained within 
his £100 limit. So essentially, as the account cost £15 a month, itd work out cheaper to have 
the URCA if Mr W was overdrawn within his limit for 15 days or more each month, then if he 
had kept his fee-free account and paid the £1 daily overdraft usage fee instead. 
Looking at Mr Ws statements, I can see that in the months prior to and after the upgrade, 
his account would consistently go overdrawn towards the end of the month. And it remained 
overdrawn until he was paid early in the following month. Halifax has also provided evidence 
to show that in the six months that followed the sale, Mr Ws account remained within the 
agreed limit for more than 15 days each month. I note that the account also provided 
worldwide travel insurance, and Mr W has said he occasionally travelled to Europe. 
So taking everything into account, I think its likely one of the reasons why Halifax did sell the 
URCA to Mr W for a second time mayve been so that he would likely pay less overall given 
his overdraft usage, than if he remained on a fee-free account. And he wouldve also been 
able to benefit from the travel insurance too. This in turn leads me to think its unlikely he 
agreed to it because he was wrongly led to believe it would improve his credit score.
Its not clear if Halifax presented Mr W with all of the important information about the URCA, 
and all the other features that it included, when it sold the account to Mr W. But Ive not seen 
anything about Mr Ws circumstances that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to it, for a second time, had he been given more information about it.
So taking everything into account, Ive not seen anything to make me think the URCA was 
mis-sold in this case. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman