DRN-2942859
The complaint
Ms N has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited has declined to meet a claim she made 
under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are known to both parties and arent in dispute. In summary 
BUPA has agreed to meet a claim for the removal of papillomas of the breast but have not 
agreed to cover the cost of reconstructive surgery as the papillomas havent been identified 
as malignant.
Our investigator considered the complaint but did not find he could ask BUPA to pay for the 
surgery because the policy only provides cover for reconstructive surgery following an 
accident or cancer treatment.
Ms M remained unhappy because she felt that it is only upon removal of the papillomas that 
a full biopsy can take place. Although Ms M accepts what the terms of the policy say, she felt 
that hers was an exceptional case.
As there has been no agreement the matter has be passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand how strongly Ms N feels but having carefully considered the policy terms Im 
not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
The reconstructive surgery that Ms N would like BUPA to pay for is only covered in limited 
circumstances. The policy does provide cover for the surgical procedures required to remove 
the papillomas and this has been agreed. But the policy explains at exclusion 10, Cosmetic, 
reconstructive or weight loss treatment: 
We do not pay for breast enlargement or reduction or any other treatment or procedure to
change the shape or appearance of your breasts whether or not it is needed for medical or
psychological reasons, for example, for backache or gynaecomastia.
There are exceptions to the exclusions and the policy says:
We pay for one course/one set of eligible surgical operations to restore the appearance of 
the specific part of your body that has been directly affected:
By an accident or
If your benefits include cover for cancer treatment, as a direct result of surgery for
           cancer.
The medical evidence shows that the papilloma is benign, although Ms N says that the 
grade B3 indicates that this is an indeterminate result and not a benign result. I understand 
too that subsequent investigations showed the presence of a further papilloma. Nevertheless 
at present the medical evidence doesnt show malignancy. This means that there is no cover 
for reconstruction under the policy. However BUPA has agreed that if post surgery there is 
evidence of malignancy, it will consider whether reconstructive surgery falls under the 
exception to the policy exclusion. I think thats fair. But as the policy terms are clear there is 
no basis for me to require BUPA to agree to pay for reconstruction surgery at present.
I do understand the difficult and distressing situation Ms N finds herself in and that she will 
want to have the reconstruction surgery whether or not there is an ultimate diagnosis of 
malignancy. But on the evidence to hand there is nothing to indicate any liability under the 
policy and in these circumstances I cant say that BUPA has treated Ms N unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman