DRN-3493652
The complaint
Ms D and Mr P are unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited hasnt refunded them more 
money in respect of the premium they paid for a private medical insurance policy even 
though services it was able to provide were restricted because of the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Ms D and Mr P had the benefit of private medical insurance, underwritten by BUPA, for 
many years. The policy was renewed for one year in August 2019.
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. As a result, BUPA says routine and 
non-urgent treatments were suspended.
Ms D and Mr P were paying for their policy throughout the time when medical facilities were 
being utilised by the NHS due to the pandemic.
Shortly after medical facilities were temporarily affected, Mr P required a scan. However, 
there werent any private facilities available at the time. Ms D and Mr P complained to BUPA 
and asked that it extend the period of insurance  which was due to be renewed in August 
2020 without charge to Ms D and Mr P so that there was enough time for the scan to be 
covered under the policy in that policy year. At the end of April 2020, BUPA said that wasnt 
something it was able to offer at that time. It fully expected that most treatments which were 
being deferred because of the circumstances at the time would be delivered and funded by it 
as soon as possible when things returned to normal. As the policy wasnt due to renew until 
August 2020, it hoped that Mr P would be able to access his scan before the policy was due 
to renew.
At the time, BUPA also said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial benefit 
it ultimately received because of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by
way of a rebate or other appropriate means (BUPAs pledge). 
Ms D and Mr P remained unhappy with BUPAs position. So, they brought a complaint to our 
service. They said BUPA should either extend the policy by a further three months or, 
alternatively, pay them an amount equivalent to three months premiums. 
After Ms D and Mr P brought a complaint to our service, BUPA wrote to them in March 2021 
confirming that it had undertaken a review as part of BUPAs pledge. As a result, they were 
told, if eligible, theyd receive a rebate equivalent to around one months premium. This was 
paid in mid-2021.
Ms D and Mr P dont think a rebate equivalent to around one months premium was fair 
given the circumstances they found themselves in. Theyve more recently said that BUPA 
should be reimbursing them for many months more than this; to cover the entire period when 
private medical facilities were affected.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms D and Mr Ps complaint.  Theyve disagreed and raised 
several points in reply. Their complaint has now been passed to me consider everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms D and Mr P for taking the time to set out in detail why they think 
BUPA hasnt acted fairly and reasonably. Im aware that Ive summarised their complaint in 
less detail than they have, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single 
point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal 
dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point raised 
to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes. In considering whats fair and reasonable, 
I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. And having done so, I dont uphold Ms D and Ms Ps complaint. 
Ill explain why.
At the outset, BUPA told Ms D and Mr P that if it transpired that there was a reduction in the 
claims it paid for customers overall, it would pass back to customers any exceptional 
financial benefit it has made arising as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think BUPAs 
published course of action in or around April 2020 was fair and reasonable. The effects of 
the pandemic were still ongoing, and the impact was still uncertain. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there had been an overall reduction in the claims 
made on BUPAs private medical insurance policies. However, BUPA says that non-urgent 
treatments - deferred in the earlier stages of the pandemic - wouldve still needed to have 
been delivered and funded by BUPA at a later date, once private facilities were no longer 
needed by the NHS to treat patients. I accept what it says about that.
Ms D and Mr P arent happy with the position initially taken by BUPA; not to extend the 
policy by three months free of charge and then, more recently, its offer to reimburse them 
around one months premium as part of BUPAs pledge. 
From Ms D and Mr Ps perspective, I can understand why theyre upset. BUPAs ability to 
provide a full range of services had been temporarily affected through no fault of Ms D and 
Mr P. However, importantly, it wasnt BUPAs fault either. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for BUPA to make an exception for 
Ms D and Mr P in this particular case and provide a rebate in excess of around one months 
premium to them.
Im satisfied that the basis of the offer made is to represent any exceptional financial benefit 
made by BUPA as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. And I dont think the way in which the 
rebate has been calculated leads to an unfair or unreasonably result for Ms D and Mr P in 
this case.  
BUPA commissioned a third party to assure that the way in which it shares out the rebate is 
fair and reasonable across eligible UK health insurance customers and it was satisfied with its intended course of action. That third party is independent of BUPA. Its reflected on 
BUPAs website:
We have independently reviewed BUPAs proposed approach to allocating its rebate
fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers. We recognise that finding
the right balance between fairness, simplicity and BUPAs desire to act promptly in
distributing the rebate fund is challenging, and that no single approach will fully
satisfy all stakeholders. We are satisfied that BUPAs proposed approach to
allocating its rebate fund between its eligible UK health insurance customers is
reasonable and strikes an equitable balance between these objectives.
Im also conscious that BUPA has committed to carry out a final review in due course to
ensure it has met BUPAs pledge. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of
this complaint given that Covid-19 is still prevalent, and its full impact hasnt been fully 
determined.
When making this finding, I accept that as private medical facilities were taken over by the 
NHS to support the NHSs response to the pandemic, this temporarily affected BUPAs 
ability to provide the full range of services it would usually be able to offer customers under 
their particular medical insurance policies  including Ms D and Mr P. And that Mr Ps scan 
was therefore delayed. I appreciate this wasnt his fault. But this was due to the 
unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was also 
outside of BUPAs of control. 
Further, although routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or delayed as 
a result of the pandemic, from what I know, Im satisfied BUPA did put in place other benefits 
to support its customers at this time. That included, where possible, arranging remote 
consultations with appropriate medical professionals and offering access to a virtual GP. So, 
I think Ms D and Mr Ps policy was capable of benefitting them during this time even if the 
scan was delayed. And I can see that Mr P was able to utilise the policy during the policy 
year 2019/2020  including in April and June 2020, albeit Ms D and Mr P had to pay for the 
treatments due to the policy excess.
Ive also taken into account what Ms D and Mr P say about the doctrine of frustration, certain 
provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the FCA guidance for insurance and 
premium finance firms on Coronavirus and customers in temporary financial difficulty. Even 
though Covid-19 and its impact was an unforeseen event at the time the policy was taken 
out, the law regarding frustration allows for a party who has gained a valuable non-monetary 
benefit under the contract before it becomes frustrated to pay a just sum for it. As Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied that  although some services BUPA was able to provide were 
temporarily affected  the policy was still capable of benefitting Ms D and Mr P. And BUPA 
was on risk for a valid claim during that time. 
Ive also taken into account what Ms D and Mr P says about other options available to BUPA 
around that time including undertaking a risk profile on them and offering a payment deferral. 
Ive seen nothing to show that Ms D and Mr P indicated to BUPA that they were 
experiencing financial distress, had they done so, it might have been fair and reasonable for 
BUPA to have considered offering something more at that time. 
All, in all, Im satisfied that the rebate paid is fair and reasonable and Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair and reasonable for BUPA to pay a higher premium refund in this particular 
case. My final decision
I dont uphold Ms D and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman