DRN-3794936
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
surrounding restrictions they placed on his current account.
What happened
Mr C telephoned Halifax because he was unable to use his current account. Halifax 
explained that a restriction had been placed on his account because of a transaction into the 
account that had been reported as suspicious by a third-party bank. 
Halifax asked Mr C to provide some evidence to confirm the legitimacy of the transaction so 
that the restrictions could be removed. Mr C did this, but he wasnt satisfied with the service 
he received from Halifax surrounding the issue, including that he was given incorrect 
information about how his direct debits would be impacted. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Cs complaint. They felt theyd acted fairly by applying the restrictions, 
but they accepted they hadnt given Mr C accurate information when theyd spoken to him, 
specifically regarding whether his existing direct debits would be paid while the restrictions 
were in place. Halifax apologised to Mr C for this and made a payment of £100 to him as 
compensation for any trouble and upset hed incurred. Mr C wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs 
response, and he felt that that one of Halifaxs agents had spoken to him in an accusatory 
and threatening manner, and so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Halifax had issued 
to Mr Cs complaint, including the apology and payment of £100 compensation, already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to several telephone calls between Mr C and Halifax from which its 
clear that Mr C was concerned about the potential impact of the restrictions in regard to 
direct debits and payments that were due during the time that his account was restricted. 
The reason Mr Cs account was restricted by Halifax was because Halifax received notice 
from a third-party bank that a transaction into Mr Cs account that had originated from that 
third-party bank was a potentially fraudulent transaction. In such circumstances  where a 
bank is informed by another bank of potential fraud concerns  it would generally be 
expected that restrictions would be placed on the relevant account while the concerns raised 
by the third-party bank are investigated. And for this reason, I dont feel that Halifax acted 
unfairly towards Mr C by placing the restrictions on his account that they did. 
It's also notable that Halifax worked with Mr C to remove the restrictions on the account in a 
timely manner, explaining what they needed from Mr C to remove the restrictions and 
providing Mr C with options as to how he could present that information to Halifax. This 
meant the restrictions were removed the day after Mr C first spoke to Halifax about them.
However, while Mr Cs account wasnt restricted for very long, the restrictions covered the 
time that Mr Cs wages were received into the account and when monthly direct debits and 
standing orders were paid from it. As mentioned, its clear Mr C was worried about the this, 
and its also clear that he was incorrectly told by one of Halifaxs agents that the scheduled 
direct debits would be paid by Halifax while the account was restricted. But this wasnt the 
case, and in their response to Mr Cs complaint, Halifax apologised for this and made a 
payment of £100 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset Mr C may have incurred. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered fair by one person 
sometimes not considered as such by someone else. But given the full circumstances of this 
complaint  including that Mr C has confirmed that there was no financial impact on him and 
that his monthly payments were ultimately all paid on time  the £100 compensation that 
Halifax have already paid here does feel fair to me. And I can confirm its commensurate 
with what I would have instructed Halifax to have paid, had they not already done so.
I can appreciate that Mr C may have been worried and concerned while his account was 
restricted. But unfortunately, because Halifax were told by the other bank of the potential 
fraud concerns, there was always going to be a degree of unavoidable and necessary 
inconvenience to Mr C here. And other than the incorrect information given to Mr C  which 
Im satisfied that Halifax have already fairly compensated him for  I feel that Halifax did act 
fairly and reasonably and with Mr Cs interests in mind.
Finally, Mr C has explained that he felt one of Halifaxs agents spoke to him in an accusatory 
and threatening manner. Again, this can be subjective, and I acknowledge that Mr C may 
have felt this way. But from an impartial, third-party perspective, having listened to the calls 
between Mr C and Halifax, I dont feel that any of Halifaxs agents on those calls did speak to 
Mr C in such a manner, and so I wont be instructing Halifax to take any further action.
All of which means that Im satisfied the response that Halifax have already issued to Mr Cs 
complaint, including the payment of £100 compensation for the provision of incorrect 
information about the direct debits, already represents a fair and reasonable outcome to 
what happened here. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I trust hell understanding, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman