DRN-2840698
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that EUI Limited trading as Admiral (Admiral) has unfairly refused to 
meet a claim he made, and that its also voided his policy and recorded this on industry 
databases.
What happened
Mr Ps family home was burgled. He reported this to the police, and contacted Admiral about 
making a claim for both stolen items and damage done to his home by thieves.
Admiral initially thought Mr Ps contents were very under-insured, and wanted to look more 
closely at the claim. It then began to ask questions about the amount of work needed to 
carry out repairs  and whether all the damage had been done by the thieves.
Mr P said none of the damage was there before the burglary  so Admiral sent a specialist to 
look at the damage. He thought a fair amount of it was pre-existing, and caused by general 
wear and tear. Mr P didnt agree with some of the specific points made by the specialist but 
overall maintained his position that none of the damage was there before the burglary. 
Admiral re-contacted the specialist, and based on his response said it thought Mr P had 
exaggerated his claim. It said the terms and conditions of the policy allowed it to refuse any 
claim that had been deliberately exaggerated, and that Mr P had acted fraudulently.
Admiral voided the policy  that is, cancelled it back to the start date and treated them as 
never being insured. It hasnt returned the premiums Mr P paid.
Admiral also said that it was made clear on the paperwork sent to Mr P for checking that he 
only had just over £20,000 of contents cover  not the £150,000 he thought.
Mr P complained about both of these points but Admiral hasnt changed its decision.
Our investigator thought Admiral was reasonable when it relied on the opinion of the 
specialist about when the damage most likely occurred, so she thought it could fairly say Mr 
P had exaggerated the claim. She thought Admirals decision to void the policy without 
returning any premiums was in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr P doesnt agree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint falls into two broad sections. The first is whether Mr P exaggerated his claim 
for building repairs, and if so, has Admiral fairly voided the policy and refused the claim. The 
second is whether Mr P was under-insured  but that only becomes relevant if I decide 
Admiral unfairly refused the claim. 
Im afraid I dont think it did. An accusation of fraud is a very serious matter, so Id expect 
Admiral to only do that when there is strong supporting evidence. 
I think it was fair for Admiral to query the repairs bill for the buildings after the burglary. The 
quote for repairs was for more than £50,000 and included replacing kitchen cabinets, floors 
and most of a bathroom. It also included things like cracked floor tiles and ceilings. Some of 
those arent things typically damaged by burglars.
Admirals specialist looked at the damage and concluded that a lot of it was pre-existing  
but some might have been caused by the thieves. And he said it was possible that some of 
the pre-existing damage could have gone un-noticed before Mr P (or his builder) started 
checking carefully.
This was put to Mr P, including that some of the items claimed for  such as the plinths in the 
kitchen  showed signs of damage caused by damp which wouldnt have been caused by 
the thieves. Mr P remained certain that it was all caused by the thieves. And he thought 
there were some inconsistencies in the specialist report  as an example he thought the 
specialist was mistaken when he said a microwave couldnt have been pushed out of place 
and caused damage to a kitchen fitment.
Admiral went back to the specialist but he still thought most of the damage was pre-existing 
and largely down to wear and tear. 
Its normally accepted that an insurer can rely upon a report from a specialist as to the cause 
of damage when deciding whether to meet a claim. Ive looked at both the reports and I think 
the conclusions are reasonable. And Mr P did have an opportunity to review what he thought 
he could claim for, because Admiral asked for his comments on several points. Even taking 
into account the stress and upset Mr P and his family were suffering, I think he could have 
re-considered his position if hed wanted to.
Having reached an impasse, Admiral said it was going to cancel/void the policy to its last 
renewal date without returning any premiums. It was going to record this on industry 
databases and wouldnt meet any part of the claim.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and they do allow Admiral to do this. The 
reports from the specialist suggests the claim for damage is exaggerated, and that is a 
reason for Admiral to say it wont meet any part of the claim. Admiral did act reasonably 
when it gave Mr P the opportunity to review the claim before it did that.
Its very clear that Mr P and his family were burgled  and that the thieves left some damage 
and a lot of mess behind. Im very sorry theyve had to deal with this, but I cant say Admiral 
hasnt acted fairly.
The matter of whether Mr P was under-insured drops away given Admiral arent going to 
meet the claim at all, so Im not going to comment on that further.
I understand this will be very upsetting for Mr P. Of course, he doesnt have to accept this 
decision, and he may be able to take legal action if he thinks thats appropriate.
My final decisionMy decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman