DRN-3013080
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by The Tavistock Partnership Limited (Tavistock) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was poor and negligent, he thinks that 
it has caused him a financial loss. 
He also thinks that the investment selection was poor and hasnt met his needs. 
What happened
Mr J and Tavistocks relationship started in 2015, Mr J requested advice from Tavistock 
about whether it would be suitable for him to transfer out his DB pension at this time into a 
personal pension. As his DB pension was valued at £345,000, Tavistock advised him that it 
wouldnt be in his best interests to transfer. Mr J agreed with this advice and took no action.
Mr J, and a representative of Tavistock, met again in 2017 to discuss Mr Js pension and 
retirement needs. Tavistock completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js 
circumstances and objectives. Tavistock also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to 
risk (ATR), which they said was at the low end of moderate to adventurous. 
In June 2017, Tavistock advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and invest 
the proceeds using a discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
The suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were: 
Mr J wanted better control over his investments. 
The SIPP had more flexible death benefits. 
The SIPP had more flexibility in respect of taking benefits. For example, after age 55 
Mr J could use it to repay some debt. 
He was concerned the DB scheme could end up in the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)
Mr J complained in 2020 to Tavistock about the suitability of the transfer advice. His 
complaint is very detailed, but it concerned two principle areas. Firstly, he thought the advice 
to transfer was unsuitable for him. And secondly, the related investment advice was also 
poor as the investments had not performed well. 
Tavistock didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. They said that Mr J would have transferred away in 
any event and he hasnt suffered a loss due to the advice they gave. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said that 
Tavistock should pay compensation. She said that the advice to transfer the DB scheme 
benefits was unsuitable as it would likely lead to Mr J receiving lower benefits at retirement. 
There werent any other compelling reasons as to why he should have given up his DB 
scheme benefits. 
Tavistock disagreed, saying that the investigator was incorrect to refer to Mr J as a low to 
medium risk investor as he was recorded as having a low end of moderate to adventurous 
ATR. And Mr J is clearly not a low risk investor. The critical yield of 6% was within the 
regulators top two growth figures of 5 and 8%. And the point of the transfer was not to 
improve his pension payments but to improve the flexibility in the way he could take his 
benefits. It still thought that Mr J was a persistent customer. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Tavistock should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how Tavistock could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst Tavistock wasn't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Js benefits at age 65 was 6.01% if he took a pension 
which increased by 3.25% a year and had a 50% spouses pension. It was 5.43% if he took a 
pension that didnt increase and had no spouses pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.5% per year for 21 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js  
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr J giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. 
Much of the correspondence about this complaint has concentrated on Mr Js attitude to risk. 
Tavistock assessed this as being at the low end of moderate to adventurous. But, looking at the descriptions of attitude to risk categories Tavistock has provided, this covers a wide 
range of them. So, I dont see how it can be correct. I dont see how Mr J could have an 
attitude to risk that is both lower than moderate and adventurous. Surely it must be one or 
the other, or something else. 
So, Im not persuaded that Mr Js attitude to risk was properly assessed and, most 
importantly, I dont think it was as high as adventurous. Whilst Mr J was clearly interested in 
managing his finances, and wanted a more hands on approach, I cant see that he had any 
significant experience in doing this at the time. 
So here, the critical yield that closest matched his old scheme benefits was just over 6%, 
And Tavistock shouldve assumed shouldve assumed that this was unlikely to be 
achievable. Because of this I think Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk. 
Even if it was established that his attitude to risk was higher, I still think that he would 
struggle to invest in a way so that the SIPP would provide better benefits than the DB 
scheme. And I think Tavistock has recognised this when it said in the suitability letter On a
standalone basis, transfer would not be appropriate if priority was to increase income.
Tavistock has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr J wouldve been able to 
meet his needs despite the high critical yield and Ive considered these. Tavistocks models 
show that Mr J would be able to achieve the same income from the fund as the DB scheme 
would have provided past age 100 using both the mid growth rate of 4.95% and the higher 
growth rate of 7.96%. I dont think these amounts account for the provision of a spouses 
pension.  
But at the low growth rate of 1.96%, assuming he took the same income as he would from 
the DB scheme, he would use all of the fund sometime between ages 80 and 85 (probably 
about age 83). So, there was a real risk that his pension fund would run out if he made the 
transfer.  
Also, as Tavistock will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and 
so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic 
in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Js best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Tavistock 
has said, in this case, the advice wasnt to improve Mr Js pension income it was to provide 
the flexibility he wanted. 
So Ive looked to see if there are other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite it likely providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr J required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash (TFC) earlier than 
the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. Mr J wanted to retire early, possibly at age 55, and he was thinking about using some TFC 
to repay a mortgage. But Im satisfied he could have achieved this if he stayed in the DB 
scheme. This is because he was entitled to take TFC from the DB scheme at retirement. 
And I think, given his income and future prospects, there wasnt any pressing need to make 
arrangements to repay his debts early at this point in time. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr J had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
Furthermore, Mr J was only 42 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. Mr J had over 13 years before he was even thinking 
about accessing his DB pension, if he were to retire early. And possibly much longer than 
this. So, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr J to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. And if 
Mr J later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
And I understand that Mr J was also a member of his employers defined contribution (DC) 
scheme. So, he would build up a fund of money in this over time and its likely the benefits 
from this could be used in a more flexible way. This would mean that he potentially couldve 
met any flexibility aims he may have had without giving up his guaranteed DB scheme 
benefits. 
And the transfer planning was based on Mr Js income from the DB scheme and how to 
replace this. But I cant see that Tavistock actually looked at what Mr Js income needs were 
at retirement. And this isnt unreasonable given how far away Mr Js retirement was. But I 
think its difficult for Tavistock to have advised Mr J on his retirement planning when it didnt 
adequately determine what his retirement needs were.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr J could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP were likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to Mr J, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr J about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Tavistock explored to what extent Mr J was prepared to accept 
a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr J 
was married and had children (although his children may not have been dependent on him 
for too much longer) and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful if Mr J predeceased them. I dont think Tavistock made the 
value of this benefit clear enough to Mr J. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, the fund may have been depleted particularly if Mr J 
lived a long life or investment returns were lower.  In any event, Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a SIPP over his 
security in retirement.Furthermore, if Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Tavistock shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Js desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr J was not an 
experienced investor at the time of advice. Clearly he had an interest in becoming more 
hands on with his investments and has now researched how his pension is invested. I 
understand he has now changed these investments. But with this increased knowledge of 
his financial affairs he has also concluded that the transfer away from the DB scheme was 
inappropriate. So, I dont think that this was a more pressing objective than maximising his 
pension benefits. And if things were explained properly at the start he wouldnt have 
transferred away. 
As far as I can see the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that 
Mr J should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. And Mr J has 
said that he wasnt overly concerned about this. Furthermore, if the scheme did end up 
moving to the PPF, I think Tavistock should have explained that this was not as concerning 
as Mr J thought (if indeed he did think it was concerning). As Ive explained above, Mr J was 
still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out to a SIPP.
Suitability of investments
Tavistock recommended that Mr J invest in a fund the DFM used. And much of Mr Js 
complaint is that these funds havent performed well.  As Im upholding the complaint on the 
grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J, it follows that I dont 
need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr J 
should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the complaint about the 
suitability of the investments and their performance wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice 
had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But Tavistock wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr J shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to potentially repay debts or gain some flexibility. This wasnt worth giving up 
the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Tavistock shouldve advised Mr J to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Tavistock's advice. Tavistock says that this is the case. This is because it advised Mr J a few years earlier not to transfer, but he came back for advice again when he was aware the 
transfer value had increased. Tavistock says he was very aware that his transfer value was 
high and he wanted to capture this high watermark value. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tavistocks advice. I think the clearest indication 
of what Mr J would have done is what did happen. He didnt transfer when Tavistock said it 
wasnt right to do so. So, if Tavistock had again provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. And I think he wouldve accepted that advice again. As 
Mr J has pointed out, he did contact Tavistock to say that he wouldnt proceed if Tavistock 
said a second time that it wasnt in his best interests to transfer. 
So, I dont think Mr J would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Tavistock should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tavistock to put Mr J, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Tavistocks unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
Tavistock may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Js contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date Tavistock receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tavistock to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Tavistock pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Tavistock to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require The 
Tavistock Partnership Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Tavistock pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman