DRN-3758203
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC held her liable for credit card transactions she 
says she didnt make, which led to her entering into an IVA. Shed like the transactions 
refunded and compensation.
What happened
Miss D held a credit card account with Barclays. In 2016 she made them aware that she had 
been a victim of domestic and financial abuse, and several transactions on the account 
werent carried out by her. At the time Barclays didnt agree to refund the transactions, 
saying it was a civil matter. The credit card account defaulted, and the debt was passed to a 
debt collection agency. 
In 2018 Miss D entered into an IVA to deal with her accumulated debts. The IVA made three 
payments to Barclays in relation to the credit card debt  one in 2018 and two in 2020.
In 2021 Miss D complained to Barclays about the decision to hold her liable for the debt. 
Barclays agreed to refund £112.40 as they felt they shouldnt have increased her credit limit. 
After further consideration Barclays issued a revised financial response saying they should 
have recognised the context of Miss Ds dispute. They paid her £500 compensation, agreed 
to write off the debt and remove any adverse information from her credit file.
Miss D didnt think this was fair, saying it was because of this dispute that she had to enter 
into her IVA agreement. She referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator gathered 
some more information about what happened and spoke to Miss Ds IVA supervisor. Overall, 
the investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. They accepted that Barclays should 
have carried out a more thorough investigation into the dispute when it was raised but didnt 
feel the decision to enter into the IVA could be solely put down to the debts on the Barclays 
credit card. But she felt there was more Barclays could have done to put things right.
The investigator suggested Barclays:
Refund the payments Miss D had made towards the disputed debt, £633.83, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the amounts Miss D had paid towards the debt through her IVA. This totalled 
£931.08. As the dates of these payments werent known the investigator suggested 
dividing the total in three, and Barclays paying 8% simple interest from 1 July each 
year for each third.
Paying Miss D an additional £350 on top of the £500 already paid, for a total of £850.
Barclays accepted this as a resolution. But Miss D didnt think this reflected the impact on 
her  she said if Barclays hadnt increased her credit limit originally then this money wouldnt 
have been spent. She said if it had been accepted as fraud in 2016, she wouldnt have been 
forced into the IVA. She asked for Barclays to increase the compensation amount 
substantially. She sent us further information about her circumstances at the time. But the 
investigator felt the outcome was fair and didnt change their mind.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its clear that both parties accept that the way Barclays handled Miss Ds initial claim 
in 2016 wasnt appropriate, and that this was unfair to Miss D. Barclays have also accepted 
they shouldnt have allowed her credit limit to be increased. I agree with this, so the key 
question for me to consider here is what must be done to put things right for her.
Barclays have now agreed to write off the debt and removed any negative information from 
her credit file. But Im minded that this should have been done when Miss D first reported the 
disputes to Barclays. As it wasnt Miss D has had to make additional payments to the debt  
first directly to Barclays and later through her IVA. 
Im satisfied that its fair that Barclays refund the payments made directly by Miss D. As 
these are funds she has been deprived the use of, Im also satisfied it would be reasonable 
to add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
There is an argument that the payments made through the IVA dont represent a loss to 
Miss D. If the Barclays debt hadnt been included in the IVA its possible the amounts would 
simply have been applied to other debts. But I recognise that these are amounts that Miss D 
has paid and have been applied to the Barclays debt. Barclays have also offered to refund 
these to her, along with 8% simple interest. On that basis its not unreasonable for them to 
be refunded.
The date and specific amounts of the payments made to the debt through the IVA arent 
know  beyond the total amount, and that one payment was made in 2018 and two in 2020. 
Barclays doesnt have a record of this, and Miss D was just paying a single monthly amount 
to her IVA practitioner. As it cant be precisely known when to start the 8% interest payments 
from, I think the suggestion of dividing the full amount by three, and then starting the interest 
awards from 1 July 2018 for one third, and 1 July 2020 for two thirds is reasonable. This 
ensures that Miss D hasnt lost out financially.
Ive also gone on to consider the wider impact on Miss D, and I thank her for the information 
shes shared about her circumstances at the time the transactions took place, and when she 
entered into her IVA. She was in a difficult situation, and Barclays handling of her dispute 
and lack of sympathy will have only added to the distress she was feeling at the time. Taking 
everything together I think she is due compensation from Barclays.
Ive carefully considered Miss Ds allegation that Barclays forced her into her IVA, but I dont 
agree this is the case. While I can see the debt to Barclays made up a significant portion of 
her debts, there were still several other debts unrelated to Barclays. These amounted to over 
£5,000. Miss D has said she could have come to arrangements with these other creditors 
which wouldnt have had the same impact on her credit file, or ability to gain credit. But Ive 
also considered what shes shown us about her income at the time, and it seems unlikely to 
me that she would have been able to repay these debts in the short to medium term.
Miss Ds IVA practitioner has also confirmed to our service that even if the Barclays debt 
hadnt been included, they would still have recommended the IVA. Its possible that Miss D 
may have made a different decision if the debt amount had been lower. So, I accept 
Barclays not carrying out a thorough investigation sooner made Miss Ds debt larger than it 
was, but on balance I think its more likely that Miss D would still have entered into the IVA anyway. On that basis I cant fairly say that this is solely down to Barclays actions, and Im 
not asking Barclays to pay compensation on this basis. 
Barclays have already paid Miss D £500 in recognition of their poor service. But taking in to 
account her circumstances at the time, and the difficulty she was facing, Im satisfied this 
had a bigger impact on her and will have caused her considerable distress in the subsequent 
years. So, Im satisfied this amount should be increased to reflect this impact. An additional 
£350, for a total of £850, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things rights for Miss D Barclays must:
Write off the debt and remove any adverse information from Miss Ds credit file about 
the credit card
Refund the payments Miss D made towards the disputed debt  I understand this to 
be £633.83. Barclays should also add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the amounts Miss D paid towards the debt through the IVA - £931.08. 
Barclays should add 8% interest per annum until the date of settlement. For one third 
of this amount this should be from 1 July 2018 and for the remainder from 1 July 
2020.
Pay Miss D £350 in addition to the £500 already paid to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience their poor handling of her claim and having to repay debt that wasnt 
due.
If HMRC require tax to be paid on the above interest Barclays should provide a certificate 
showing how much was taken, should Miss D ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle 
the complaint as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman