DRN-3563541
The complaint
Mr B has complained about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited. He isnt 
happy that it turned down a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B had a legal expenses policy with DAS and made a claim after he was arrested 
following a dispute at his home address in relation to contractor work that was taking place 
at his property in January 2020. Mr B said the contractors caused damage and became 
aggressive, so he fired a rabbiting gun in the air in order to protect himself and his property. 
He wanted DAS to cover the legal costs he incurred in relation to defending himself at court 
in relation to the criminal allegations. 
But when DAS looked into Mr Bs claim it turned it down as the appointment of his own 
criminal solicitor to defend him in these circumstances wasnt covered under the policy. This 
was because Mr Bs policy only covered him in relation to a Legal Defence arising out of 
your work as an employee or in relation to the use or driving of a motor vehicle. And as Mr 
B instructed his own solicitor after his arrest in relation to the discharge of a firearm then this 
wasnt covered under the policy. As Mr B wasnt happy about this he complained to this 
Service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B, but she didnt uphold his complaint. She 
explained to Mr B that insurance policies like this dont cover every eventuality. And she 
agreed with DAS that the policy didnt provide cover in relation to Mr Bs arrest in relation to 
the discharge of a firearm.
As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr B went through a difficult situation in the lead up to the discharge of the 
rabbiting gun into the air and his subsequent arrest by the police. But the question I need to 
consider is whether DAS did anything wrong in turning down the claim he made under his 
legal expenses policy. 
I can understand Mr Bs position, as he believes his policy should cover all the criminal legal 
costs incurred after his arrest. However, as Mr B is aware insurance products dont cover 
every eventuality and unfortunately the scenario he faced isnt covered under the policy. 
Indeed, any legal costs wouldnt be covered unless they were agreed by DAS before 
instruction in any event which wasnt the case here. And in relation to the criminal legal costs 
Mr B has incurred DAS has relied on the policy in turning down the claim. It says, under the 
Legal Defence part of the policy, that We will cover the costs and expenses to defend your 
legal rights if an event arising from your work as an employee leads to you being prosecuted 
in a court of criminal jurisdiction or in relation to motoring offences. And having considered 
this I cant say DAS has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim here as the policy is 
clear and his actions and arrest dont stem from his work as an employee or in relation to 
driving offences. 
Mr B also believes that a second part of the policy should cover his claim as well  under the  
Property Protection section of the policy. This part of the policy says, We will cover the 
Costs and Expenses for your legal rights in a civil dispute relating to your principal home. 
But I think DAS has acted reasonably and in line with the policy in relying on the Legal 
Defence part of the policy (outlined above). I say this as the Property Protection part of the 
policy clearly refers to matters in relation to a civil dispute as opposed to the criminal 
allegations brought against Mr B by his local police force and the Crown Prosecution 
Service. 
Finally, I note that Mr B has brought up a secondary aspect to his complaint about DAS in 
relation to costs he incurred in repairing his property after the dispute with the contractors. 
But I cant see that this was raised with DAS originally or that it was considered as part of his 
complaint to DAS so he will have to advance this separately now if he wishes.
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr B and the difficult position he found 
himself in, I dont think DAS have acted unreasonably in turning down the claim in relation to 
the legal costs he incurred following his arrest.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman