DRN-3357654
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies with two loans in 2001 and 2003.
What happened
Mr W took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the loans.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr W says he was told that he had to agree to buy PPI if he wanted the loan applications to 
be accepted.
Looking at the loan agreements from 2001 and 2003, they each had a separate column of 
figures for the PPI under the heading optional credit insurance. The column then set out the 
full cost of the policy, including interest. Weve seen examples of cases where an applicant 
hasnt chosen PPI, in which case that column of costs doesnt feature on the loan 
agreement.
The sales took place a long time ago. I have no doubt that Mr W has provided his genuine 
recollection of events. But it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat over 
the years.
From what we know of Nationwides branch sales process at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr W has said but, overall, Im 
unable to conclude that Mr W wasnt given a choice about taking out PPI. I find it equally as 
likely that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Nationwide had to provide Mr W with sufficient information for him to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him. I think that Mr W must 
have known something about the PPI  that it would cover his loan repayments if he was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have 
decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
As already mentioned, the costs of the policies were set out in the loan agreements. So Im 
satisfied that Mr W would have known what hed be paying for the PPI.
Mr W says his employer would have given him some sick pay but he cant remember how 
long for. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for a 
lot longer than Mr W would have received full sick pay. For accident and sickness claims the 
policy would have paid out for the full period of the loan if Mr W had been unable to return to 
work. Mr W had some savings, but having the policy would have allowed him to retain those 
savings or use them to cover other outgoings. So I consider that Mr W had a need for the 
PPI and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the policy, such as 
the things that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, 
he did not have a pre-existing medical condition that might have limited his ability to claim 
under the policy.
As I consider that Mr W had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
more information would have caused Mr W to change his mind about buying it. So he is no 
worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so there is nothing that 
Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about PPI being mis-sold in 2001 and 2003.
On another matter, Mr W had been in discussion with our adjudicator with regard to making 
a complaint about Nationwide sending letters to the wrong address. This issue did not form 
part of Mr Ws original complaint so I am unable to look at it in any depth here. Im led to 
believe that Nationwide has offered Mr W £200 compensation for this. I can see that our 
adjudicator (who has now left this service) advised that sounded like a fair offer for the errors 
that occurred.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about being mis-sold PPI in 2001 and 
2003.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman