DRN-2846957
The complaint
Mr B complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt set up a direct debit correctly when he 
switched his current account to it. Hes also unhappy it reinstated a cancelled direct debit 
when he hadnt instructed it to. Mr B also complains about the service he received from 
Monzo during this period.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
In summary, Mr B switched his current account to Monzo using the Current Account Switch 
Service (CASS). Subsequently, a company  Ill call it P  told him it couldnt collect a direct 
debit from his account. Mr B got in touch with Monzo to query this and later complained it 
failed to respond to his questions and provided conflicting information.
Monzo said all the direct debit mandates on Mr Bs previous account had successfully 
transferred across to his account with it, including the one for P. But there was no record of 
P attempting to collect a payment. Monzo also informed Mr B in line with its terms and 
conditions it had decided to close his account due to unreasonable behaviour. As hed 
initiated a switch to another account provider, Monzo agreed to keep Mr Bs account open 
until this was complete. During this time, Mr B complained a direct debit to another company 
 Ill call it A  which hed cancelled had been set up again. Monzo said it wasnt at fault as it 
had received instructions to set up the direct debit directly from A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B feels very strongly about his complaint. Although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above, Id like to reassure him and Monzo Ive read and 
considered everything in its entirety. That I concentrate on the crux of the issue in my 
decision isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and informal service we provide.
Having carefully considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for these reasons:
- I acknowledge Mr Bs frustrations as the information he says he was given by P 
appears to contradict what Monzo told him. But Monzo has provided us system 
screenshots which show the direct debit mandate for P was successfully transferred 
across to Mr Bs account with it. And this happened with the seven-day switching 
period under CASS. Its unclear why P was unable to collect a payment, but from 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied a direct debit instruction was in place to facilitate this. 
So, I dont consider Monzo did anything wrong in this regard. 
- Ive also looked at the details of the direct debit for A and I can see Monzo received a 
new mandate directly from A. So, while Mr B did cancel the original mandate, A sent 
a new instruction through the Automated Direct Debit Instruction Service (AUDDIS). 
From the available information, I understand this was to collect payments for a 
renewal policy he held with A. I appreciate Mr B has said he cancelled the direct 
debit upon receiving a renewal notification. Given the timing of events, its possible 
there may have been an overlap between A sending the direct debit instruction to 
Monzo and Mr B cancelling the renewal. In any event, a payment wasnt collected, 
and I dont think Monzo did anything wrong in setting up the direct debit upon 
receiving As instructions. 
- Ive next thought about Mr Bs concerns about the service he received from Monzo at 
these times. In her assessment, our investigator provided a timeline summary of the 
communication between Mr B and Monzo. So, I wont repeat it here again. But 
having reviewed the available information, including the email chain Mr B forwarded 
us, Im satisfied Monzo provided a clear explanation to him in relation to the direct 
debit issues. So, I dont agree it failed to answer his questions. I recognise the 
answers didnt come as quickly as Mr B would have liked, but I dont consider it 
unreasonable for a bank to take a few days to provide a detailed answer to a 
question that requires further investigation. 
- I accept emotions ran high, but I dont think Mr Bs comments and choice of words 
helped matters. He reacted in a way that was reasonably perceived by Monzo as 
being disrespectful. I can see Monzo requested Mr B to speak in a respectful manner 
before making the decision to only communicate with him in writing, and ultimately 
deciding to close his account. The terms and conditions Mr B agreed to at the time of 
opening the account set out the circumstances under which Monzo may close an 
account or restrict access. This includes abusive behavior, which Monzo states is 
what happened here. Given the available evidence shows Mr Bs repeated 
unreasonable behavior towards its staff, I dont think the steps Monzo took were 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, I appreciate Mr Bs frustrations and recognise hes likely to disagree with my 
findings. But for the reasons given, I make no award in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman