DRN-3533982
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc changed the limits on her overdraft twice without 
justification. Mrs S also complains that HSBC did not comply with her requests on how she 
had to be contacted in relation to the complaint.  
What happened
HSBC has sent to us some records and it seems that Mrs S has had the account with it for 
many years. That account has had an overdraft facility of £500 since 2006 and upon review 
in September 2021 that £500 overdraft limit was reduced to £50. A further letter was sent to 
Mrs S in December 2021 to say it had been further reduced to £0, effectively removing her 
overdraft facility completely.
When making her complaint by letter on 3 January 2022 and by way of our complaint form, 
Mrs S had made it clear that she wished to be contacted by post only. Mrs S had said: 
Please update my GDPR contact preferences to opt me out of all marketing and my contact 
preferences are in writing by post at anytime whatsoever.
Despite that, Mrs S has sent us evidence that HSBC had tried to call her and she has 
explained that she has received text messages and an email. I note that her final response 
letter from HSBC was an email and not a posted letter. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that HSBC had done nothing 
wrong in relation to the overdraft facility reductions and ultimate removal. Although she 
accepted that the letter sent in December 2021 was confusing due to the wording. 
She did think that the method of communication in relation to the complaint despite Mrs S 
requesting letter only was wrong. She thought that for the distress and inconvenience a £50 
compensation for the confusion and the complaint handling communication would be 
suitable.
Mrs S did not agree. She thinks that the term credit dormant has been misinterpreted. She 
thinks that £200 compensation would be more suitable. And Mrs S elaborates on how she 
considers the preferences to communication issue as being a serious one: 
The GDPR issue is serious in nature as I have confirmed my contact preferences 
over 10 times in writing by registered post since 2018. My initial letter to HSBC 
reiterated this instruction which should have been followed,
As for GDPR, our adjudicator referred Mrs S to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC is entitled to review an overdraft. Here I can see that Mrs S had the arrangement on 
that account for a long time and so it may have come as a shock to her for it to be removed, 
but I do not consider that HSBC has done anything wrong. It gave her notice and having 
checked the terms and conditions for HSBC bank accounts with overdrafts, then Mrs S had 
to have been given at least 30 days before carrying out the change falling into this category: 
Changes that arent to your advantage relating to account benefits, cheques or overdrafts.
And HSBC, along with many other banks, often cite this in their terms and conditions 
Overdrafts are meant to be for short-term borrowing. And although here Mrs S wasnt asked 
to repay her overdraft, its open to HSBC to review it. 
The second letter did seem incorrect where it says: The usage of your overdraft is higher 
than wed currently like to see and I say that because from HSBC records of Mrs S usage 
the overdraft did not appear to have been used much or at all. But by asking HSBC to issue 
another letter is not likely to alter the outcome. It was clumsy of HSBC to issue what may 
have been a standard letter to Mrs S. 
HSBC has sent to us evidence of the usage by Mrs S by sending us copy bank transaction 
lists. I have reviewed those. I make no finding on the overdraft removal as that is a 
commercial matter for HSBC applying its criteria for overdrafts. But I wish Mrs S to know that 
I have considered the term credit dormant and from what I have seen from the HSBC 
evidence, it does not look like Mrs S used the account very often. And there were no salary 
or pension or benefit payments being credited which may have been what HSBC was 
referring to when it used that term. Its FRL semi-explained by saying that this (meaning the 
term credit dormant) meant Mrs S no longer credit any funds into [sic] account
And even if I am wrong on the interpretation of this term, as our adjudicator has said, HSBC 
is entitled to review the overdraft arrangements on an account and so long as the 
appropriate notice was given to Mrs S then HSBC had done nothing wrong. I am satisfied 
that Mrs S received the 30 days notice. So, whether HSBC used that term or another was 
not likely to have made a difference to the outcome.
As for the communication issues then I agree  to not appreciate that Mrs S wishes to be 
communicated to in a particular way was wrong and Mrs S has sent evidence of messages 
and the FRL email being sent to her on 6 January 2022.
Having considered the amount of compensation, I think £50 to be satisfactory, fair, and 
reasonable. I know Mrs S was asking for £200 but I disagree with that figure as I am not 
satisfied that the level of inconvenience or distress warrants £200. 
And I agree with our adjudicator that if Mrs S has additional issues relating to the wider 
subject surrounding GDPR then the ICO is the best office to communicate those issues. 
Putting things right
HSBC ought to pay to Mrs S the sum of £50 as compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and confusion surrounding the letters received and/or not communicating with 
her in the manner she had asked.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint in part and HSBC UK Bank Plc does as 
I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman