DRN-2228579
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) has declined his 
income protection claim unfairly. 
What happened
Mr W has an income protection policy with LV. Unfortunately, he became absent from work 
and made a claim.
LV declined his claim as it said there wasnt enough objective evidence to show that Mr W 
was unable to work throughout the deferred period. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W complained to LV and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think LV declined the claim unfairly and 
it had explained why Mr W didnt meet the criteria. 
Mr W disagreed  he says it was impossible for him to work due to his health during the 
period of incapacity, irrespective of the cause, which is immaterial.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and not 
reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy provides cover if Mr W is unable to work due to sickness or accident. It says:
By incapacity (or incapacitated) we mean that because of sickness or accident you 
are totally unable to carry out the essential duties of your normal occupation, and you 
are not doing any other work. Essential duties are those duties which cannot 
reasonably be omitted without affecting your ability to carry out your normal 
occupation.
It confirms when a claim can be made:
You can make a claim under the policy if you are incapacitated for an unbroken 
period longer than the deferred period shown in the schedule. If we accept a claim 
we will start to pay benefit from the end of the deferred period. No benefit will be paid 
for incapacity during the deferred period.
LV emailed Mr W on 3 July 2019 and declined his claim. It said:
It required objective medical evidence confirming he was incapacitated due to 
sickness or accident
Mr W can make a claim if he is incapacitated for an unbroken period longer than the 
deferred period  which was 26 weeks. Mr W became absent from work on 5 
November 2018 and so LV was considering benefit payments from 10 May 2019 
LV requested a report from the GP who advised that Mr W was seen due to acute 
anxiety and panic disorder as a result of work-related stress. Mr W was seen on 5 
November 2018 and again on 24 February 2019, where the doctor noted Mr W was 
better as the situation was in the hands of lawyers 
LV said there were no further entries of Mr W seeing the GP after 24 February 2019 
until 24 June 2019
LV asked whether Mr W had consulted anyone else  Mr W said he hadnt as he was 
trying to deal with his problems himself
LV said the evidence didnt support his incapacity throughout the deferred period  
between November 2018 and May 2019 
LV wrote to Mr W and explained he didnt meet the definition as the evidence didnt 
demonstrate he was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. 
On 1 May 2019, Mr Ws GP confirmed Mr W was suffering from acute severe anxiety/panic 
disorder as a result of work-related stress. And that he had been unfit to work since 5 
November 2018. The note confirms Mr Ws functions were normal and that there was a slow 
improvement. 
LV says it asked Mr Ws GP for notes in the run up to and including his absence, when he 
attended and if medication or counselling was mentioned. It says it questioned the GP for his 
opinion on Mr W working in alternative practice and why, so early in his absence, he thought 
it was unlikely that Mr W would work in the same role again. LV said the GP didnt address 
the questions about working elsewhere or why he felt Mr W was unlikely to work in finance 
again.
And so LV said it couldnt see that Mr W was medically prevented from returning to his 
previous occupation. But it was happy to consider any more up to date medical evidence to 
support his claim going forwards.
Mr W called LV in July 2019 and wrote a letter of complaint in September 2019. He said LV 
failed to treat his call of July as a complaint and didnt mention his right to appeal on the 
claim decline letter. It also didnt provide him with a copy of his doctors letter in May 2019.
LV agreed it should have logged Mr Ws concerns about the decline of the claim when he 
called in July 2019. It said it didnt automatically provide copies of GP letters but Mr W could 
request these. However it maintained its decision to decline the claim as there wasnt 
enough evidence to support a claim for incapacity. LV paid Mr W £500 compensation for the 
delays in dealing with his concerns. 
Having considered all of the above, Im satisfied that LV didnt unfairly decline the claim. The 
medical evidence didnt show that Mr W was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. 
To be eligible for the benefit, Mr W would need to demonstrate that he was unable to work 
due to sickness throughout the deferred period. Mr W says this wasnt made clear to him but 
the policy does say evidence will be required:We also reserve the right to require you to be examined by a doctor of our choice 
and to ask for any other reasonable evidence we need to consider your claim or to 
confirm that you remain incapacitated.
LV has also said that it will consider any further medical evidence which Mr W wishes to 
provide, and I think this is reasonable. Mr W can ask LV to consider a new claim if the 
medical evidence shows that hes unwell, which may mean looking at a different deferred 
period but it will be up to Mr W to provide this information to LV.
Mr W says it was impossible for him to work due to his health during the period of incapacity, 
irrespective of the cause, which is immaterial. But the policy confirms his sickness would 
mean he was totally unable to carry out the essential duties of your normal occupation. As 
the cause of his sickness was due to a colleague and workplace stress, it is possible that he 
could work elsewhere if he was removed from that particular stressful environment and 
worked for another employer. This means that Mr W didnt satisfy the definition of incapacity, 
based on the medical information available throughout the deferred period. And so if the 
cause of the sickness is workplace stress, this would be relevant when deciding whether Mr 
W was incapacitated.
I appreciate Mr Ws comments about mental health problems and that he wasnt aware of 
what was required to satisfy the definition of incapacity. But in these types of cases, it isnt 
unreasonable for an insurer to ask for evidence of GP visits, any medication or treatment 
taken, the cause of the illness and ongoing evidence of incapacity. 
LV accept that it delayed in dealing with Mr Ws concerns about the decline of his claim and 
paid him £500 compensation to recognise the stress and frustration caused as a result of the 
delay. This wasnt an ongoing issue and he did receive a formal reply to his concerns by 
January 2020. So taking this into account, I think £500 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in all of the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think LV needs to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman