DRN-1662012
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited delayed allocating his settlement 
payment and issuing a clearance letter.
What happened
On 30 August 2019 Mr A exercised his right to withdraw from a finance agreement. He 
advised BMWFS that he would send a cheque and called on 4 September 2019 to make 
sure it had been received. BMWFS said it had received the cheque.
Mr A called on 9 September 2019 seeking confirmation that the account was settled. He was 
advised that he would receive a confirmation once the funds had cleared.
Mr A called again on 4 October 2019 and asked why he hadnt received confirmation. 
BMWFS advised him that the funds had been mislaid. After a few days the funds were 
located and allocated to Mr As account. A clearance letter was issued. 
Mr A complained to BMWFS. He said hed been charged interest for the days when the 
account was settled and said hed found the situation when the funds went missing very 
stressful.
BMWFS agreed to refund the interest charged and offered compensation of £100.
Mr A wasnt happy with BMWFSs response and complained to this service. He feels that the 
compensation doesnt reflect the stress he was caused. Hes said that he had to make 
several long calls to BMWFS to try and get the matter resolved.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whilst he appreciated that there 
had been delay on BMWFSs part, he felt the compensation offered was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the delay in clearing the funds had caused him inconvenience 
when trying to arrange a new finance agreement and that hed spent a long time trying to 
resolve matters and had been promised calls back by BMWFS which hadnt materialised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, it appears that although BMWFs received the funds promptly from 
Mr A, there was a delay because the funds were allocated to an incorrect account due to 
human error.
The funds were missing for around 4 weeks. I do understand how distressing this must 
have been for Mr A, given the sums of money involved. I dont doubt that Mr A made several 
calls to try and get matters resolved and I appreciate that this wouldve been time consuming 
and frustrating. I also understand that it would have been disappointing not to receive a call 
back if this was promised.
BMWFS has acknowledged that it made an error and that it could have provided better 
customer service. It has refunded interest and offered compensation of £100.
I appreciate that Mr A feels that the compensation should be higher. Whilst I understand the 
distress and inconvenience that the error and delay has caused, I can see that BMWFs 
issued the letter of discharge on 4 November 2019 and have refunded interest and paid 
compensation. On balance, I think BMWFs has acted fairly and reasonably and that the 
compensation is in line with what this service would award. For these reasons, I wont be 
asking BMWFs to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman