DRN-3091262
The complaint
 Mr K complained about the service he received under his car insurance policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
Mr Ks car was vandalised, so he made a claim on his policy. Due to the damage, Mr Ks car 
needed to be recovered. Mr K said he was given advice from the garage who were going to 
repair the vehicle on how the vehicle should be recovered. Mr K shared the advice he was 
given with Aviva. He said the steering wheel had been stolen, the vehicle doesn't start, the 
wheels are locked which means the vehicle cant be recovered using a normal tow track, so I 
specifically requested that a crane is used to lift the vehicle up so it can be recovered 
correctly without any mechanical damage to the drive shaft as my vehicle is rear wheel drive 
and all wheels are locked.
Aviva appointed a contractor to carry out the recovery of the vehicle. The contractor 
attended to recover the vehicle but didnt come with a crane as Aviva hadnt recorded and 
passed this information on. So, the recovery was delayed several hours into the early hours 
of the morning until a crane was dispatched to complete the recovery. Aviva apologised and 
offered £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Aviva later 
increased the offer to £75 after our investigator asked it to reconsider its offer.
Mr K declined the offer, he asked for £430 to compensate him for two days off work and for 
the overall distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva had caused an additional 
level of distress and inconvenience for Mr K, so he awarded compensation of £150. Both 
Aviva and Mr K disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cause of the distress and inconvenience to Mr K is agreed by the parties. Information 
provided to Aviva by Mr K about the need for specialist lifting equipment wasnt passed on to 
its contractor. I have considered what the impact of this error was.
Had Aviva passed this information on correctly, its likely the contractor wouldve arrived with 
the specialist equipment first time. Instead, Aviva said its contractor arrived around 4pm 
without the specialist equipment. The contractor then realised the equipment was needed, 
which delayed the recovery of Mr Ks vehicle. Mr K was expecting recovery around 8pm, but 
this was further delayed, and recovery was finally completed around 12-30am the following 
morning. The overall delay in the recovery was in the region of seven to eight hours.
I have considered the impact of the delay to Mr K to understand whether I think the £75 
compensation offered by Aviva is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K was at home whilst waiting for the recovery of his vehicle. Mr K said he was distressed 
as he was always on guard looking out the window to check there were no further attempts 
of theft or vandalism to his vehicle. He also said As the recovery of my vehicle went late into 
the night I had very little sleep and this caused me a throbbing headache in the morning. 
This resulted in me taking another day off work and then following up with Aviva for an 
update on whether my vehicle had been picked up correctly from the recovery depot and on-
route to the repairer. Mr K thought he should be compensated £250 for the overall distress 
and inconvenience and a further £180 for lost income as he said he wasnt able to work on 
the day of the recovery or the following day.
The vandalism of Mr Ks vehicle wouldve been stressful for him. I imagine he may have had 
heightened anxiety as he thought further damage couldve happened to his car whilst he was 
waiting for the recovery vehicle as his windows had been smashed in the earlier vandalism. 
However, most of this distress and inconvenience was caused by the act of vandalism itself. 
My decision can only consider the actions of Aviva, the vandalism wasnt its fault.
Aviva havent compensated Mr K for lost time at work. I think it has been reasonable in 
taking this approach, I dont think Avivas actions has caused Mr K to take time off work on 
the day of the recovery. I think it was the act of vandalism that was the significant factor in 
Mr K taking time off work. I also dont think its fair to expect Aviva to compensate Mr K for 
the following day, when he said he had to chase Aviva up. I think this wouldve taken a small 
amount of time and so, I dont think its fair to expect Aviva to pay for this  although, I will 
take this into account when I look at the overall distress and inconvenience this complaint 
caused Mr K.
Aviva did cause Mr K some distress and inconvenience and offered Mr K £75 in 
compensation. However, I dont think its offer is fair in the circumstances. Therefore, I uphold 
this complaint. I think an award of £150 for distress and inconvenience is fairer, this 
considers:
Aviva causing a seven to eight hour delay which compromised part of Mr Ks day
He had heightened anxiety about further damage / loss to his vehicle
The recovery went in to the small hours of the morning, which may have contributed 
to a headache the next morning
Mr K felt the need to keep checking up on what Aviva had done due to Avivas poor 
service previously. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
K:
£150 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience its delays caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman