DRN-2838601
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued her van when 
it settled a claim for the vans theft on her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs R had a van which she converted into a campervan. It was stolen and Mrs R claimed on 
her policy. Admiral settled her claim valuing the van at £8,682 before deducting Mrs Rs 
excess.
Mrs R didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She thought Admiral should increase its valuation to £7,841 which, after 
adding VAT, becomes a total of £9,409.20. She said Admiral should add simple interest to 
the difference in valuations.  
Admiral didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so it's been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When placing a value on Mrs Rs van Admiral noted she had modified it and asked an 
engineer to value it based on photos Mrs R had provided. The engineer estimated that the 
value of the van, after the modification and inclusive of VAT, was £8,682. So Admiral based 
its settlement on that figure.
Ive noted that when Mrs R insured her van she didn't tell Admiral it had been modified, and 
her policy doesn't cover the costs of modifications. So Admiral was under no obligation to 
amend its valuation because of the vans modifications. But the policy does cover the cost of 
replacing Mrs Rs van with a vehicle of the same, make, model, age and mileage. So I've 
looked to see whether or not Admirals valuation is fair.
Our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides for 
valuing second-hand vehicles. The trade guide valuations are based on the specific vehicle 
being valued. That is they provide a value for the exact make, model, year, and mileage. 
And as the guides rarely agree on an exact valuation we think a fair way to find a vehicles 
market value is to use an average of the various figures given by the trade guides. 
Three leading trade guides provided these valuations:
£6,825
£7,721
£8,977
An average of those figures is £7,841. But its notable that these valuations are exclusive of 
VAT. And adding VAT to the average figure produces a valuation of £9,409.20.
Admiral said it wasn't fair to use the highest valuation of £8,977. That was because it had 
contacted the trade guide that produced that valuation. Admiral said the trade guide told it 
that, in order to find the value of Mrs Rs van, Admiral should input a specific code. But after 
it did so the trade guide produced a valuation for a minibus and not a van. So it said the 
£8,977 figure should be disregarded. I agree that the code Admiral used, at the trade guides 
instruction, was wrong. But I also note the valuation that code produced was different to the 
one we received.
Ill explain that there are a number of ways to produce valuations using this particular trade 
guide online. And where the vehicles registration doesn't immediately provide a valuation its 
possible to find the value using a tool called the search tree. This allows the user to find the 
specific make, model, age and specification of the vehicle which requires valuing. Thats 
what we did and that produced the valuation of £8,977. And I'm satisfied that is the valuation  
that the trade guide intended to return for the make and model of Mrs Rs van. 
It follows that I think its fair to use the £8,977 figure when producing an average of the three 
sums given by the guides. So I think a fair valuation, after adding VAT, is £9,409.20. And, 
and as Admiral has previously settled Mrs Rs claim based on a valuation of £8,682 
(inclusive of an adjustment for the vans modifications) I think its fair that it pay Mrs R the 
difference between the two sums, which is £727.20. Admiral should add simple interest to 
that sum as set out below
   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the valuation of Mrs Rs van to £9,409.20 (inclusive of VAT) and pay her 
the £727.20 shortfall from its valuation. It should add simple interest to that sum (£727.20) at 
a rate of 8% a year from the date it originally settled Mrs Rs claim to the date it pays her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman