DRN-4183043
The complaint
Ms S is a sole trader. She complains that National Westminster Bank Plc treated her unfairly 
by transferring her Bounce Back Loan (BBL) to a debt recovery company while a Pay As 
You Grow (PAYG) repayment holiday was in place. 
Ms S says that this error impacted her credit file, resulting in material losses, including loss 
of rental income and higher mortgage costs, as well as causing her distress.   
What happened
Ms S runs a property rental business, which applied for a BBL in May 2020. 
By July 2021, Ms Ss tenants had left her without a source of income to meet her monthly 
BBL repayments. After several conversations with NatWest, she applied for a six month 
PAYG repayment holiday in November 2021, which was accepted under the terms of the 
scheme. 
In January 2022, less than three months into the repayment holiday, NatWest transferred 
Ms Ss account to their Recoveries department, later moving it to a debt collection agency 
and registering a default on Ms Ss credit file. 
Ms S complained and the bank initially rejected her complaint. Ms S persisted and in 
June 2022, NatWest agreed they had made an error and shouldnt have transferred her to 
Recoveries. To put things right, they reversed the transfer, removed the adverse information 
from her credit file and offered her £200. 
Ms S rejected the £200 offer, as she felt her losses were much higher, and referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She wasnt persuaded that Ms S 
had provided evidence for the losses sought, although she felt that NatWest had deprived 
Ms S of the opportunity to do something to grow her business. Our investigator also felt the 
bank had caused Ms S a lot of stress. She recommended the bank pay compensation for 
this of £500, being an additional £300 on top of NatWests offer.   
NatWest agreed to our investigators suggestion but Ms S did not. She considered she had 
provided ample evidence of substantial losses and made the following points:
Her plan was to raise funds via a mortgage on an existing property (which Ill refer to 
as property A) in order to buy two new properties to let to the lucrative student 
market. 
The default on her credit file as a result of the banks error had caused the mortgage 
application to be rejected, thereby preventing her business from expanding and 
depriving her of rental income from the new properties she was going to buy. 
NatWests action had deprived her of rental income from property A. 
She had also been about to remortgage another property (property B) on to a fixed 
rate mortgage. Because of NatWests error, she was now stuck with a tracker 
mortgage that had kept increasing with interest rates. 
Rising interest rates meant that she had missed her opportunity to expand, which 
was now far less attractive in a higher interest rate climate. This was why she hadnt 
bought the planned properties after her credit file was rectified. 
Our investigator had concluded that mortgage acceptances or rejections were based 
on more than one factor. But the same lender had made her business an offer in 
November 2021 and then rejected her application in February 2022. 
She had never had an application rejected before NatWest made their error and had 
an excellent credit score. 
In July 2022, she had felt obliged to pay £8,066 to repay her BBL in full in order to 
clear her poor credit rating, as credit searches were still showing the default despite 
the bank agreeing to cancel it. The money used was savings that she had earmarked 
to pay legal fees on the new properties she planned to buy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, NatWest have accepted they made an error in this case, so theres no need for me to 
look into the circumstances of the default and the transfer to Recoveries. I think both parties 
agree that the direct losses from the error have been rectified by ceasing any recovery 
action regarding Ms Ss BBL and restoring her credit file. This complaint is now about 
consequential losses. 
I need to decide what further losses were incurred by Ms S as a result of the period in which 
her credit file incorrectly showed a default. To do that, I need to look at whether the default 
actually caused the consequential losses claimed. And if it did, Id also need to ask whether 
it would be fair to hold the bank responsible for those losses. So Id need to decide whether 
the bank could reasonably foresee that their error would result in losses like those. 
Im not sure when exactly the default appeared on Ms Ss credit file, but she has provided 
evidence of an accepted mortgage in November 2021 and a declined one in April 2022. As 
our investigator said, we cant know for sure what other factors might have influenced the 
declined application. But I accept it seems likely that NatWests error was at least a 
significant contributory factor. However, Ms Ss claimed losses require me to accept several 
more increasingly hypothetical steps beyond this mortgage  the principal ones being 
acquiring two new properties and successfully renting them out.  
Its possible that the banks actions might have prevented Ms S from executing her business 
plan, as she has described it. But I agree with our investigator that there is far too much 
uncertainty about this outcome for it to be fair to award compensation on that basis. Its 
unclear how much she could have raised and I havent seen any evidence that Ms S had 
identified any properties to buy. Even if she had, there is no certainty that she would have 
successfully rented them out to students as planned, even if there is high demand in the 
area. 
Ms Ss only evidence of how much her business has lost is the amount she made by renting 
out another property to students in the period. But we have no way of knowing that she would have found properties of the same size and income-generating capacity. 
I also cant see why the bank should be held responsible for a loss of rental income on 
property A, as I dont see why the banks error prevented her renting it out, whether it was 
mortgaged or not. She was living in it, but shes told us she planned to move to a third 
property and had ported her mortgage from that property in order to do so. I dont think the 
banks actions prevented this move. 
Its clear that the banks error happened at an unfortunate time for Ms Ss property business, 
occurring just as interest rates were beginning to rise. Ms S says that the mistake also 
prevented her from remortgaging property B, resulting in her missing an opportunity to fix the 
interest rate before they rose. This intention may well have been in her mind, but 
unfortunately she hasnt produced any evidence to support this claim and without it, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for me to award compensation. 
Ms S has said that she felt obliged to pay off her BBL in full in July 2022, as a default was 
still showing on her credit file and she was concerned about the length of time NatWest was 
taking to rectify it. There is always something of a lag in the amendment of a credit file and 
Im not persuaded that paying off the BBL would necessarily have achieved her aim of 
restoring her credit rating any faster. I dont therefore consider that paying off the £8,066 was 
a consequence of NatWests error. In any case, Ms S would have had to repay her BBL 
sooner or later (and repaying it sooner will have saved her interest), so I dont think this is a 
loss caused by NatWests actions. 
I can see that being deprived of £8,066 might have had an impact on cashflow, if this was 
the only cash available to pay legal fees. But I dont think the absence of £8,066 is what 
prevented Ms S from buying further properties, and as she didnt end up buying them, I dont 
think the absence of savings to pay legal fees caused any difficulty. Im therefore not 
persuaded that paying off the BBL caused any loss. So I dont think it would be fair to award 
any compensation for this. 
Putting things right
In considering consequential loss claims, I need to decide what is more likely than not to 
have happened had the bank not made its error. In Ms Ss case, I dont think I can say with 
any clarity what would have happened. The losses are not clearly defined and there are too 
many hypothetical questions. I therefore dont think it would be fair to award compensation 
for the potential losses Ms S has outlined. 
I do, however, agree with our investigator, that the bank put Ms S in a stressful situation that 
she wouldnt have been in without their error. Im satisfied that the news that her previously 
strong credit profile had been damaged and she was now being rejected for finance must 
have come as a terrible shock, jeopardising as it did her whole business. The decision to 
repay her entire BBL, whilst in my view unnecessary, shows the extent of her concern. I 
agree with our investigator that compensation of £500 for this is fair. 
I have seen evidence that Ms S hasnt cashed the cheque NatWest sent her for £200, at 
least as at October 2022, in which case they should arrange to cancel the old cheque and 
issue a new one for £500. If the cheque has been cashed after the evidence Ive seen, then 
they will need to pay her an additional £300.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this decision in part and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay Ms S compensation of £500 in total, in addition to the actions they have already taken.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman