DRN-4160599
The complaint
Miss H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) failed to update
the status of an accident claim, which resulted in higher premiums under her motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H says she moved to a new insurance company. Her new insurer increased her
premium when it found she had an open fault claim. Miss H says this claim shouldve been
closed 12 months ago. As a result, she was paying around £20 per month more for her
insurance policy with her new provider.
When Miss H complained to Advantage it told her the claim had been settled in October
2021 but its agent dealing with the matter didnt let it know. This is why the claim was still
showing as open. It told her she should refer back to her current insurer to enquire about a
premium refund now the claim was closed. Advantage sent Miss H a cheque for £100 to
apologise for the miscommunication.
Miss H says she referred back to her current insurer and it asked for a pdf document
showing her claims history. She says she asked Advantage for this and received an email
the same day relating to the cheque she had returned. She responded asking again for the
claims history in pdf format. Miss H says she told Advantage shed returned its cheque as
this didnt cover the increased premiums shed paid.
Advantage emailed Miss H to say the information she requested had now been provided via
email. She responded to say it hadnt but acknowledges this was later received. Miss H
didnt think Advantage had treated her fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. She says Advantage should reimburse Miss H for the
increased premiums she paid as a result of its delay in updating the claim.
Advantage didnt respond so its been passed to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Miss 
Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Let me explain.
Advantage didnt respond to our requests for information. So, my decision is based on the
information Miss H supplied.
Miss H provided a copy of Advantages response to her complaint. In this it explains its
agent shouldve informed it the claim had been settled in 2021 with Miss H not considered at
fault. I agree with what Advantage has said. The agent was acting on its behalf, so
Advantage is ultimately responsible for this error.
An unresolved claim or a claim where the insured is considered at-fault will generally result
in an increased premium. This is what happened here. Advantage says the claim was
resolved as non-fault in October 2021. This shouldve been updated on its internal, and any
external databases at this time. Miss H was charged a higher premium by her new insurer
when it identified there was an open claim. This took several months to resolve.
Miss H has provided an email she received from her current insurer. This explains that an
additional premium was added to her policy in August 2022 because of an open fault claim.
It says this claim was recorded in September 2021. In its email the insurer says its removed
the additional premium since receiving the proof of no claims document Miss H obtained. It
says the claim from 2021 now shows as closed non-fault. The insurer also says its
removed the £50 administration fee it charged following the initial premium amendment.
Miss Hs insurer explains that it had to amend the date she passed her driving test, as this
wasnt correct. This resulted in a slight change to her premium along with an administration
fee. But it has since refunded this administration fee also.
Having considered this information Miss H hasnt incurred a financial loss because of
Advantages delay in updating her claims information. This is because her current insurer
has refunded the additional premium related to the open claim. Her premium now accurately
reflects her claims history. So, I wont ask Advantage to provide a refund in this regard.
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Miss H. She says shes wasted a lot of time
and has been inconvenienced by Advantages actions. She also says its been difficult to
sort this problem out whilst looking after a baby.
I can see that Miss H contacted Advantage a number of times in November 2022 asking for
her claims history in a specific format. From her comments and the copy emails shes sent
this information wasnt supplied for around two weeks. Im sorry Miss H was charged an
increased premium and had to spend time contacting Advantage and her current insurer to
sort this out. Its reasonable that Advantage compensates Miss H for this.
Advantage offered £100 compensation. Given that Miss H had to pay higher premiums
unexpectedly, and she spent time dealing with both Advantage and her current insurer to
resolve the issue, I think an increased payment is warranted. I think Advantage should pay
Miss H £150 in total to acknowledge the inconvenience she was caused.
I said I was intending to uphold Miss Hs complaint and Advantage should pay her £150 
compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Advantage didnt respond with any further comments or information. 
Miss H responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should:
pay Miss H £150 compensation in total for the inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman