DRN-1851388
 
The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Ald Automotive Ltd (Ald) 
trading as Kia Contract Hire.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs S responsible for keeping the car in a 
state of repair consistent with its age and mileage assuming good treatment and 
allowing for fair wear and tear. They said Mrs S would need to pay all sums 
necessary to restore the vehicle to condition satisfactory to the business.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
reports. Im persuaded that all the damage, that Ald are now making refurbishment 
charges for, is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear under the 
BVRLA guidance. The investigator has explained that guidance accurately.
Mrs S says it was agreed that the first inspection would be superseded by the 
second. I dont have any further evidence of that disputed agreement and I note that 
an inspection completed prior to auction, which Ald have relied on to generate the 
refurbishment invoice, noted faults that were also present during the first inspection. 
Im persuaded therefore that the faults noted prior to auction were present before the 
car was collected and, as the contract requires Mrs S to refurbish damage thats 
beyond fair wear and tear, and the faults were noted prior to collection, I think they 
are fairly chargeable to protect Ald from the loss in value they were likely to incur 
when selling the car at auction.
Im not persuaded that there is evidence of poor customer care in Alds handling of 
this complaint. They appear to have responded to Mrs S in reasonable time and I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence that they promised the first inspection would be 
superseded by the second. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Ald Automotive Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman