DRN-3400770
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost to a scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
full here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision:
 Mr C was looking into investing online when he was contacted by Brighter 
Trade. After doing some research and speaking to representatives of this 
supposed trading company, he was convinced to pay Brighter Trade around 
£65,000 using both his HSBC credit card and debit card. The first payment 
took place on 22 October 2018.
 Everything looked to be going well, with Mr C seeing large profits on top of what 
hed paid in. He had also successfully withdrawn £100 from his Brighter Trade 
account.
 Encouraged by this and what Brighter Trade were telling him, Mr C took out a
£20,000 loan with HSBC which he used to fund further trades.
 But after a month or so after his initial payment, Mr C saw a significant drop 
in his investment. He continued to follow Brighter Trades advice and invest 
more, in the hope that trading further would recover the loss.
 However, Mr C became suspicious when hed make a withdrawal request but, 
in response, Brighter Trade kept telling him to make certain trades that only 
ended up with further losses.
 Mr C ended up reporting Brighter Trade to the authorities and the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). At which point, he found that Brighter 
Trade had recently been reported as operating a scam.
 Upon telling HSBC, the bank tried to recover the money  but Mr C didnt 
have the requisite evidence to make a successful claim. Ultimately, HSBC 
said it wouldnt reimburse Mr Cs loss.
 Our investigator upheld the complaint in part, recommending that Mr C get 
most of the payments refunded on the grounds that HSBC ought to have 
done more to protect his account.
Mr C accepts this recommendation  but HSBC does not, submitting counter 
arguments. Because HSBC is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me 
to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 15 March 2022. From which, I have copied 
the findings and redress sections below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points 
above, I have read and considered everything thats been provided. Having done so, I 
agree with the investigators conclusion that the complaint should be partially upheld  
but Ive reached a different way for HSBC to put things right. My reasons are as 
follows:
There is no dispute that Mr C authorised the transactions in question; he 
made the payments using his legitimate security credentials. Whilst he didnt 
intend for his money to go to fraudsters, he is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
HSBC is aware of our approach to expecting it to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks. And having systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of being 
scammed. Including, in some situations, making additional checks before 
processing payments, or declining them altogether to protect customers from 
possible financial harm from fraud.
Whats more, as explained in our published decisions, its considered good 
industry practice for firms to have updated watchlists with types of scams and 
potential fraudsters. These watch-lists should be updated and communicated 
internally to staff within one month of an alert being posted by the FCA or 
IOSCO (the International Organisation of Securities Commission).
To that end, such an alert should automatically trigger HSBCs systems and 
lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making 
enquiries, or giving a scam warning.
Here, although Mr C did go on to pay Brighter Trade, his credit card statement 
shows the very first payment to the scam went to INTLSECLTD, which is a 
different party. Im satisfied this firm wasnt operating legitimately and searching 
INTLSECLTD returns a warning on the FCA website that this business was 
carrying on regulated activities within the UK without being authorised.
So, HSBC was aware that Mr C was instructing a credit card payment to this 
firm on 22 October 2018, and there was a warning about this trader published 
on the FCA website on 10 April 2018  more than six months prior. Given this, 
Im minded to say that HSBC ought to have automatically blocked this 
transaction which started the scam. Its my current thinking that HSBC had 
sufficient time to update and communicate its watch-list between the publication 
of the warning and this initial payment. It follows that it should have 
appropriately questioned Mr C before processing the transaction.
Had HSBC carried out its duties and asked Mr C about the first payment, Ive no 
reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. Whilst I 
accept HSBC had no duty to protect Mr C from a poor investment choice, or 
give investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps a 
customer can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are 
dealing with a legitimate person  such as checking the payee was authorised 
with the FCA. It could have drawn on its own knowledge, alongside information 
that was within the public domain about the high risks associated with trading 
and provided Mr C with a potential scam warning.HSBC did take steps to check with Mr C before some of the payments were 
allowed to be let go. Including, sending a text message to him on 22 October 
2018 to check if the transaction was genuine. However, as I understand it, these 
warnings did not speak of INTLSECLTD. So, HSBC may have stepped in  but 
Im not convinced this was on account of it identifying this particular payee as 
being flagged by the FCA.
I find this crucial, because, had HSBC acted on the information about this first 
payee, Im satisfied Mr C would have noted the various warnings about trading 
scams and looked further into the venture being proposed. Including, checking 
whether the trader was regulated here or abroad.
Mr C says  and I accept  that he thought we was dealing solely with Brighter 
Trade. Although he was aware that some of the payments were going to 
different beneficiaries, this was only because Brighter Trade had convinced 
him that it was necessary to pay other payees to facilitate the trading. I find it 
probable that being told about this obscure third party, especially one with such 
a warning on the FCA website, wouldve caused him to become credulous 
about what Brighter Trade were instructing him to do.
Whats more, Im persuaded that Mr C would likely have come across not only 
the warning for INTLSECLTD as the payee, but an additional warning on the 
FCA about Brighter Trade. This was published on the very same day that he 
instructed this first payment (and therefore not something that Mr C wouldve 
found in the days prior to the 22 October 2018 when he first initiated his 
relationship with Brighter Trade). Indeed, an online search tells me that both 
INTLSECLTD and Brighter Trade provide the respective FCA warning pages on 
the very first return. I therefore consider it highly likely that coming across two 
warnings for both these firms would have exposed the scam and caused Mr C 
to stop trading, thereby preventing the loss thereafter.
I acknowledge HSBCs submission that Mr C continued to invest with Brighter 
Trade even after he saw a considerable drop in his investment. Also, Ive borne 
in mind that Mr C did successfully withdraw money from his investment. Both of 
which, could suggest that any intervention from the bank would probably not 
have prevented Mr C from continuing to send payments to the scam. However, 
this argument does not take into account that  at the time of the first payment  
Mr C had no investments to monitor with Brighter Trade. Likewise, he hadnt yet 
managed to withdraw from his account as intended. Both these factors came 
later on, once Mr C had already sent multiple payments. In other words, at the 
very beginning, Im satisfied that Mr C wasnt as convinced by the tactics of the 
scammers as he mightve been later on. Hence, why Im persuaded that an 
intervention along the lines Ive described wouldve made a material difference.
So, under these circumstances, if bank staff had sought to establish further 
details about the transaction on 22 October 2018, it seems highly likely that the 
scam would have been exposed there and then, thus preventing any further 
losses. Mr C would not have lost the first payment amount and he also wouldnt 
have been persuaded to send the subsequent payments that were lost.
In fairness, Ive also carefully weighed up whether Mr C can be considered 
blameworthy in this case and should therefore bear some responsibility for his 
loss. Mr C can only fairly be held partially responsible  with a commensurate 
deduction in compensation  if he reasonably foresaw some sort of risk of this 
sort of harm and proceeded nevertheless.HSBC submits that Mr C did exactly that  he carried on investing further sums 
with Brighter Trade despite seeing substantial losses. The bank has placed 
emphasis on this sudden drop in performance, as it believes this shouldve 
alerted Mr C to what was really happening with his money. But with all 
investment comes risk, and attempting to recover shortfalls by investing more 
is not the same as foreseeing a danger with the legitimacy of the scheme itself. 
With that in mind, I am not satisfied that Mr Cs actions in this regard warrant a 
deduction.
On the other hand, I have to consider that the evidence indicates that Mr C did 
not act with complete transparency when applying for the HSBC loan. By his 
own admission, he took out this lending having been persuaded by Brighter 
Trade to use it to invest more into the supposed trades and did not make this 
clear to the bank during his application. Normal lending procedure makes me 
think that it would be very unlikely that a bank like HSBC would grant a 
£20,000 loan if its intended purpose was to fund investment. And Mr C appears 
to concede that he did not tell the bank that that was what he was doing.
Had Mr C been entirely honest with HSBC about what he intended to do with 
these loan proceeds, I am minded to conclude that the bank wouldve rejected 
his application and the loan would not have been approved  therein, preventing 
the loss Mr C has incurred by losing the £20,000 and having to still pay it back to 
HSBC. In light of this, I find it fair and reasonable that Mr C should bear some 
responsibility for the loss from the point of the loan onwards.
Putting things right
Its common ground that the loan was used to facilitate trades from 16 
November 2018 and thereafter. Its my judgment that Mr C should be 
reimbursed the payments on and following this date, minus a 25% deduction 
for contributory negligence. On account of the evidence, I find this a 
proportionate reduction to reflect the role he played in this part of his loss.
I understand that Mr C has now fully repaid this loan. Accordingly, if the 
outstanding balance has been cleared then the remaining funds should be 
repaid to Mr C. He should also be reimbursed all of the interest that has been 
charged on the loan  interest that wouldnt have been payable had HSBC 
took adequate steps and the scam been unravelled at the point of which Ive 
provisionally determined.
For the avoidance of doubt, in accordance with my provisional findings, I 
propose that Mr C should receive the entire amount lost to the scam prior to 
the loan date. Because, had HSBC intervened on account of the information 
available to it, Im convinced Mr C would not have gone ahead with sending 
the payments at all.
Considering that some of these payments were made using Mr Cs credit card, 
the corresponding interest and charges applied to these transactions should be 
addressed by HSBC, so that he is effectively put back into the position he 
wouldve been in had they not been made. This is not necessary for the 
payments in question made by Mr Cs debit card, because (as far as Im 
reasonably aware) these did not incur a charge or interest.Finally, to make up for the time that Mr C has been deprived of these funds, 
HSBC should add 8% simple interest on the refunds for the disputed 
transactions, calculated from the date the payment was made to the date of 
settlement.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint and require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to:
For the payments made using Mr Cs credit card, rework the account so 
that all interest and charges arising from the disputed transactions are 
refunded
Reimburse Mr C 100% of the disputed payments from 22 October 2018 
until 16 November 2018 (less any credits received)
Refund Mr C all but 25% of the disputed payments from 16 November 2018 up 
until and including the final disputed transaction (less any credits received)
Add 8% simple interest per year to the refund amounts from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement (minus any lawfully deductible tax); and
Refund the interest paid on Mr Cs HSBC loan.
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr C accepted my proposed decision and had nothing further to add. 
HSBC on the other hand does not accept. In response, it submits that a greater reduction 
should be made to the payments that are to be returned to Mr C. 
In summary, the bank puts forward that any percentage deduction for contributory
negligence ought to apply to all of the disputed payments  not just those that took place on
and after 16 November 2018. This is in light of Mr Cs failure to carry out rudimentary
checks before parting with significant sums of money.   
Secondly, instead of or in addition to this, HSBC says its only fair that Mr C be held liable for 
100% of what was lost as a result of the payments made from December 2018 onwards. 
Those being, the transactions that occurred once Brighter Trade had clearly demonstrated
that they were untrustworthy. Including, having not adhered to the promise of allowing 
withdrawals. HSBC states that these in particular total £16,741.13 out of the overall amount
in question. 
Now that both parties have responded, the case has been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully reviewed HSBCs response to my provisional findings, my judgment of what 
it should do to put things right for Mr C ultimately remains unchanged. Ill explain why. 
Turning first to the argument that Mr C ought to bear a reduction in whats to be returned to 
him for all of the payments  as opposed to beginning this from 16 November 2018 (when he 
took out the loan) and onwards. While I acknowledge HSBCs position that Mr C failed to carry out basic checks of Brighter 
Trade, the fact remains that the regulatory warning about this firm was first published on the 
very day that he instructed the first payment in dispute here. 
To that end, any prior research (of the FCAs website, as emphasised in HSBCs 
submissions) would have proved unfruitful; there were no such alerts about Brighter Trade 
leading up to 22 October 2018. 
Plus, research tends to take place before one makes a commitment or purchase. So, 
naturally, Mr C may well have gone ahead and looked at what the regulator had to say about 
this so-called broker before he executed the first investment. But any such due diligence 
wouldnt have made a real difference leading up until the date of payment  there was no 
FCA warning ahead of that. 
Whats more, as far as I am reasonably aware, there was no compelling guidance about 
Brighter Trade within the public domain before this date either (at least, HSBC has not 
referenced it, nor have I seen such evidence). Hence, why I think there being no alert by the 
FCA, coupled with no real circumstantial forewarning, would actually have led to Mr C going 
ahead as planned  instead of causing him to become credulous about Brighter Trade. 
I accept that Mr C mightve double-checked this firms status later on in the sequence of 
payments, which would probably have identified the warning being highlighted. Nonetheless, 
if I were to take on board what HSBC suggests ought to have happened (i.e. Mr C making 
adequate checks before making any of the payments) I find that this is a specious argument. 
Because, had Mr C checked prior to 22 October 2018 and been satisfied due to the lack of 
warning to say otherwise, I find it even less likely that he wouldve checked again. 
Especially, when considering that after leaving his HSBC accounts the payments looked to 
have safely arrived in his Brighter Trade account. In other words, checking beforehand 
wouldve likely reassured Mr C that all was well. Which understandably wouldve saved the 
need for him to look once more at what might be recorded online  reinforced by his 
impression that he could see his investments on Brighter Trades bogus platform. 
Regardless, HSBC concedes that it ought to have recognised the relevant warning about 
INTLSECLTD for this initial payment. The bank acknowledges it should have identified that 
this beneficiary posed a high risk of fraud and took appropriate action. 
From this, I must take that HSBC agrees that it needed to have done more to protect Mr C. 
And had it done so, Mr C wouldnt have needed to check the FCA website or other means of 
online research  bank staff (as the financial professionals in the equation) couldve done 
that for him. Or, at the very least, encouraged Mr C to check himself when the warning about 
Brighter Trade had (by that time) been published.  
HSBC has suggested that seeing a considerable downturn in his investments ought to have 
raised enough suspicion for Mr C to have questioned the legitimacy of Brighter Trade. Its 
common ground that he thought his trades were faring well  but this then took a severe 
downward turn in mid-November 2018. The bank says that (if not earlier) Mr C should bear a 
higher degree of responsibility for the role he played from this point and thereafter. 
However, I am conscious that this coincided with when Mr C took out the loan with HSBC 
anyway. I have therefore made provision for this in my findings, which ultimately means that 
Mr C should not receive all of the subsequent payments in light of his acts/omissions. So, in 
effect, the same principle applies; Mr C should fairly be held responsible for contributing to 
his own loss from this moment in time until the end of the series of payments in dispute here. Still, for the avoidance of doubt, I maintain that seeing a sudden drop in an investment is not 
inherently suspicious or unusual in the context of identifying fraud and scams. Even with the 
considerable amounts involved here this remains so. Such is the nature of a volatile and 
high-risk investment venture like the one Mr C thought hed entered into, both losses and 
gains can be extortionate. Its certainly not unheard of that the value of CFDs, 
cryptocurrency etc. fluctuate suddenly overnight, without warning. Mr C knew this when he 
entered into the agreement with Brighter Trade. 
Indeed, Mr C saw his investment rise rapidly in the early stages and at a similar speed to 
that of his later losses in profit. It follows that this huge decrease in his investment pot would 
not necessarily have caused him to question the credibility of the investment platform itself. 
Instead, to expand on the rationale in my provisional decision, I think the focus would more 
likely have been on how to use this volatility to his advantage once more and reinstate the 
profits on his capital. 
Conversely, I find that the question of whether Brighter Trade was genuine ought to have 
triggered with Mr C when he was told to lie  or at least not be entirely honest  with HSBC 
about the intended purpose of the loan. 
Being told to circumnavigate lending protocols and manipulate the criteria of an application 
to his favour is something that I believe shouldve caused Mr C to question why he was 
being told to take such steps if everything with Brighter Trade was above board. In my view, 
this is highly suspicious and conflicted with what Mr C believed he was entering into.  
Therefore, for the reasons given above and before, I continue to think that the deduction in 
Mr Cs compensation ought reasonably to take place from 16 November 2018 onwards. 
Finally, I have thought again about whether Mr C ought fairly to be refunded for the last 
group of payments  those occurring after Brighter Trade made it increasingly difficult to 
withdraw what he thought was his initial investment. 
When doing so, I must consider that, in order to conclude that he should be held 
accountable for the entire amount in question (as HSBC has referenced it, that being approx. 
£16,700), I would need to be convinced that Mr C was completely responsible for the 
situation he found himself in. To not be refunded anything from these transactions would 
only happen if I thought he contributed so substantially to his own financial loss that it would 
be unreasonable to ask HSBC to make any contribution to the relevant payments. 
Yet, as described in my provisional decision, this was not the case here. But for HSBCs 
failure to step in at the first payment, its highly likely that Mr C would not have ended up 
making these particular transactions to permit access to his funds. Taking adequate steps to 
identify and counter the financial harm before it occurred wouldve naturally averted this 
scenario entirely  which, as mentioned, HSBC appears to accept. Consequently, I cannot 
safely conclude that the bank didnt have a principle role to play in the circumstances that 
later transpired.  
So, overall, I am not persuaded that the state of affairs in December 2018 should warrant   
Mr C being held completely responsible for the final payments HSBC has drawn attention to. 
Taking this and everything into consideration, I am of the view that my provisional findings 
still provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this case.My final decision
For the reasons given above and previously, my final decision is to uphold this complaint 
and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
 
 For the payments made using Mr Cs credit card, rework the account so that all 
interest and charges arising from the disputed transactions are refunded
 Reimburse Mr C 100% of the disputed payments from 22 October 2018 until           
16 November 2018 (less any credits received)
 Refund Mr C all but 25% of the disputed payments from 16 November 2018 up until 
and including the final disputed transaction (less any credits received)
 Add 8% simple interest per year to the refund amounts from the date of the payments 
to the date of settlement (minus any lawfully deductible tax); and
 Refund the interest paid on Mr Cs HSBC loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman