DRN-3408805
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with Europ Assistance S.As (Europ) handling of her claim on her travel 
insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Europ also includes its agents.  
What happened
Ms S booked a holiday through a tour operator. Whilst she was abroad she slipped on a wet 
floor at the hotel that didnt have a warning sign. Ms S said she was then unable to walk or 
move without being in agony and the injury started to swell.
She had to request medical assistance, so the reception staff at the hotel arranged a doctor 
who administered injections. Ms S says these injections are banned in UK and they hit her 
sciatic nerve. 
When Ms S returned home she visited her GP and was diagnosed with bilateral sciatic pain. 
She said she has evidence to show this condition is a product of the injections administered 
during her holiday. Ms S is in a lot of pain and unable to work as she cant sit or stand in the 
same position for long periods of time.
Ms S said ABTA upheld her complaint against the tour operator and mediation took place. 
However, this was unsuccessful, so she sought legal advice about taking them to Court. She 
said she was told to approach her insurer first.
Ms S made a successful claim on her travel insurance policy with Europ to cover the cost of 
the medical treatment shed received abroad. But Europ declined to cover her legal 
protection claim against the tour operator or the hotel. And they said she was unable to claim 
under the cancellation or curtailment section of the policy for loss of enjoyment, because it 
wasnt covered. 
Europ also said there wasnt enough evidence to satisfy a personal accident claim for Ms Ss 
ongoing sciatica. Ms S sent them a report from her doctor which described her long term 
diagnosis. But Europ said it wasnt sufficient. Unhappy with this, Ms S requested Europ 
covered the cost of her doctors report and asked them to instruct an independent medical 
report. Europ didnt comply so Ms S raised a complaint. 
She said she was unhappy with the delays to her claim, the outcome and the way it had 
been handled. And she raised complaint points concerning her trip, including not getting 
mobility assistance at the airport and that the CAA (Civil Aviation Authority) guidelines were 
not observed. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Europ had acted 
unfairly as Ms Ss circumstances were not covered under the policy. Ms S didnt agree and 
asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary she said: 
The sciatica and nerve damage has rendered her unable to go out or sit down. And 
she is permanently disabled and unable to work 
Airport assistance wasnt provided to her  especially on her return journey when she 
needed additional assistance due to the pain following the injections, but was not 
given it by airline and CAA regulations were breached
Shed received legal advice which said to approach her insurer
It has been stressful and caused further anxiety since the accident trying to pursue 
the tour operator and insurer
Europ told her that if she cant work since the incident they will process the claim. 
Europ responded to say that for a successful personal accident claim, even if Ms S can 
provide medical evidence to support she is totally and permanently disabled, she must also 
prove this is as a direct result of the accident. They said from the information provided it 
seems Ms Ss sciatica was due to the injections she received following the accident - and 
not due to the accident itself. So this wouldnt be covered under her policy. 
The case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Europ has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Id like to assure Ms S that Ive read and considered all her detailed representations. But I 
wont be addressing every point which has been raised.  Ill only refer to the points which I 
think are central to my findings. Ms S has also complained about the sale of this policy. This 
has been dealt with separately and I wont be making any reference to it in this decision 
against the insurer. 
Ms S is understandably unhappy with a number of things that happened during her holiday 
and clearly feels let down by her travel operator. But I can appreciate why she has also 
approached her travel insurer to see what is covered under her policy.  
Ive taken each of her concerns in turn below. 
Mobility assistance and breach of the CAA guidelines: 
Ms S has raised concerns about the lack of assistance she received at the airport and during 
her flights  particularly on her return flight with her injury. Mobility assistance isnt covered 
under the policy and Europ dont appear to have been involved in helping Ms S return home. 
If they had been, then I may have thought it was fair for them to arrange this assistance or 
pay some costs in relation to this. But that isnt relevant here.
It may be possible for Ms S to regain the costs of this from the travel operator or flight 
company. If she feels CAA guidelines were not observed, ATOL would be the appropriate 
body to contact regarding a breach of those guidelines.
Loss of enjoyment
 
Ms S is unhappy about the standard of her accommodation and that she was unable to 
enjoy the holiday after her fall because she was in so much pain. The terms of the policy say Europ can cover the cost of a holiday if it was cut short, but that 
isnt relevant here as although Ms S was in pain and said she was unable to enjoy the rest of 
her holiday, she didnt return home any sooner than planned. 
The policy terms also say they wont pay for inconvenience, distress, loss of earnings or 
loss of enjoyment of holiday.  So I dont think it was unfair for Europ to say this isnt 
covered. And I havent seen anything in the evidence to persuade me it was fair and 
reasonable to depart from the policy terms.
Claims handling 
I can see Ms S is unhappy with the overall way her claim was handled and she feels Europ 
led her to believe she would be able to recover the cost of her holiday. I appreciate Europ 
confirmed they would consider the claim, but I havent seen evidence that supports Ms S 
was misled. 
Legal expenses 
Ms S wanted to pursue the cost of her holiday and compensation for her injury from the tour 
operator in court. However, her policy specifically sets out that the costs of making any claim 
against a tour operator or accommodation provider isnt covered by the policy. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Europ to apply this exclusion. 
Personal accident claim for permanent total disablement 
Permanent total disablement is defined as: 
a disability having lasted for a period of at least 12 consecutive months from the date of 
occurrence will, in the opinion of an independent specialist, entirely prevent you from 
engaging in, or giving any attention to, any and every business or occupation for the 
remainder of your life.
The terms of the policy state: 
If you suffer accidental bodily injury during the trip, which within 12 months is the sole and 
direct cause of your death or disablement, we will pay you up to the amount shown in the 
Summary of Cover.
Europ said they needed a report from Ms Ss doctor that explained how her injury had 
impacted her ability to work and that this is the sole reason she is unable to work. And Ms S 
also needed to show that the accident (being her fall in the hotel) was the sole cause of her 
disability. Having reviewed the medical evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for Europ 
to conclude that the fall itself didnt cause the sciatica. Ms S herself is of the opinion the 
sciatica was caused by the injections administered the next day that she said hit her sciatic 
nerve. So although the injections were linked to the accident, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable to conclude it constitutes a separate event. Therefore, the chain of causation 
required by the policy terms seems most likely to have been  broken and Im unable to agree 
Ms Ss fall was the direct cause of her disablement. 
So although Ms S may have met the criteria to show she is permanently disabled, it appears 
she is unable to meet the second part of the test because it was the injections, rather than 
the fall that most likely caused her disability. On that basis, I think it was fair for Europ to 
decline this claim. Medical report
Ms S asked Europ to pay for the cost of the doctors report she provided and instruct their 
own independent medical report. Europ isnt obliged to cover the cost of medical reports or 
obtain an independent report unless they deem it necessary. Ms S had already provided 
evidence of her diagnosis, but the claim remained declined due to the reasons set out above 
in relation to the fall not being the direct cause of Ms Ss long term sciatica. So I dont think 
Europ acted unfairly. 
Summary 
Im satisfied Europ have fairly applied the terms and exclusions of the policy to Ms Ss 
difficult circumstances. I understand this is disappointing and Ms S feels strongly that 
someone should be responsible. But I hope she understands the reasons Ive explained as 
to why her travel insurance policy doesnt cover her situation. 
There just arent any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Europ to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman