DRN-2062157
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out by Mr H in 1997 in 
connection with a loan secured on his home. The policy provided cover for Mr 
H if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Hs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr H the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr H is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr H says he was given the impression he had to buy the PPI to get the loan he wanted, and 
that Halifax didnt give him a proper choice about buying it. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr H and Halifax 
when the loan was arranged. Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the sale, 
which isnt surprising as its many years since the policy was sold. Im also mindful that exact 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive noted everything Mr H has said. But without anything else to support what hes told me, I 
dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Halifax didnt make him aware the PPI was 
optional. 
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr H to take out the PPI. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for him. I say this because:
- Mr H was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer is he couldnt work because of 
sickness or accident. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs employer 
benefits, and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr H 
could use his employer benefits to pay for other expenses if he couldnt work. 
So I think Mr H would have had some use for the policy despite his existing arrangements.  
- Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr H before he agreed to buy it. But the 
policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr H 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But as Ive already said, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the 
policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman