DRN-3947779
The complaint
Mr B complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd pursued him for a debt hed already 
repaid. 
What happened
At the end of May 2022 Lantern purchase a debt in Mr Bs name from another business. 
Mr Bs explained that the account was sold in error and that hed already repaid the 
outstanding balance with the original lender. 
Mr B contacted Lantern and challenged whether it should be trying to collect the debt from 
him. Lantern contacted the original lender and at the beginning of August 2022 it responded 
to confirm the account should be returned to it. 
Lantern failed to update its systems and Mr Bs told us it continued to send him collection 
letters and record adverse information on his credit file. In September 2022 Mr B was 
declined for credit. 
In October 2022 Mr B went back to Lantern and it contacted the original lender again. Mr Bs 
account was subsequently returned and the adverse information removed from his credit file. 
Mr B complained and Lantern sent him a final response. Lantern apologised for the way his 
account had been handled and offered him £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint and upheld it. They didnt think 
Lenterns offer fairly reflected the level of trouble and upset caused and asked it to increase 
the award to £250. Mr B accepted but Lantern didnt. As a result, Mr Bs complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree about what 
happened. Im satisfied that when Mr B became aware Lantern had purchased an account in 
his name he quickly contacted it to explain the balance had already been repaid. And I can 
see the original lender contacted Lantern at the beginning of August 2022 to request a return 
of the account. The evidence available shows Lantern shouldve returned the account 
instead of continuing with collections activity. 
Mr B has provided evidence to show he was declined for credit in September 2022, after the 
original lender requested a return of the account. I havent seen a full copy of Mr Bs credit 
file, but I can understand why hes concerned that information recorded by Lantern mayve 
impacted his application. 
Mr Bs explained that receiving collections letters and having incorrect information recorded 
on his credit file in relation to a debt hed already repaid caused him a significant level of 
distress and inconvenience over a reasonably long period. I accept thats the case. Im not 
persuaded Lanterns offer of £50 fairly reflects what happened of the impact on Mr B and his 
credit file. In my view, a total payment of £250 more reasonably reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B over time and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As a 
result, Im upholding Mr Bs case and directing Lantern to pay him a total of £250. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd 
to pay him a total of £250 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman