DRN-3739261
The complaint
Ms I complains CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV (CIGNA) unfairly 
cancelled her policy, refused to pay claims and provided poor customer service. 
What happened
Ms I held a private medical insurance policy underwritten by CIGNA, which renewed 
annually. 
In March 2021, Ms Is policy was renewed for the year and her premiums were due to be 
paid quarterly. Ms I had also overpaid in her previous policy year. 
CIGNA contacted Ms I on 1 April 2021 stating that the full premium due on 3 March 2021 
had not been received. Taking into account the overpayment Ms I had previously made, she 
owed around €40. And Ms I made a payment for the outstanding amount on 6 April 2021. 
CIGNA said it wrote to Ms I again on 9 June chasing the payment of her 3 June 2021 
premium. Ms I made a further payment to CIGNA on 30 June 2021, but CIGNA said this 
amount didnt cover the total premium  it was about half of the amount which had become 
due on 3 June 2021. It wrote to Ms I again on 19 July 2021 and said the policy would be 
cancelled if the payment was not received within 7 days. 
CIGNA didnt receive any further payments from Ms I and later cancelled the policy on 28 
July 2021. It backdated the cancellation to 3 June 2021, as it said that was the last time the 
policy premiums were paid up in full.
The policy terms and conditions say CIGNA can terminate cover if the policy premiums are 
not paid as follows.
Subject to any conflicting legal or regulatory requirements we may terminate this 
policy if:
14.1.1 any premium or other charge (including any relevant tax) is not paid in 
full within thirty (30) days of the date on which it is due. We will give you 
written notice if we are going to terminate the policy for this reason;
Ms I complained. CIGNA said it had correctly cancelled the policy due to the non-payment of 
premiums. However it said it should have returned the payment of €361.32 Ms I made on 30 
June 2021 and had failed to do so. It said it would refund her that amount plus €110 in 
compensation for the delay. And it apologised for the error. 
Unhappy with CIGNAs response, Ms I brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened. They thought CIGNA hadnt acted unfairly in cancelling 
Ms Is policy due to the missed premium payment. And agreed CIGNA should refund the last 
payment Ms I made, and pay the €110 compensation it had offered for the delay.  However, 
they said CIGNA had caused distress and inconvenience by sending correspondence to Ms 
I in English, rather than the language she had previously requested. And she recommended 
CIGNA pay an additional £350 in compensation for this.
CIGNA accepted the investigators view. However Ms I disagreed. In summary she said she 
thought a lot of what she had submitted had been ignored, and said CIGNA had still not paid 
her claims. She was unhappy the investigator had suggested an amount of compensation in 
GBP and not Euro. And said she felt she should be awarded a much higher amount. 
As Ms I disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ms I has made detailed submissions to us, and I appreciate she would probably like 
me to deal with every point shes raised. But, were an informal alternative to the courts and 
this means Ive focused on the issues that I think are material in determining a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects 
the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
Cancellation of the policy 
CIGNA has provided this service with evidence of the payments Ms I made towards her 
policy premiums during 2020 and 2021. And the terms and conditions of Ms Is policy say 
the cover can be terminated if a premium is not paid within 30 days of the date it becomes 
due. 
Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen that Ms I did not make the total of her quarterly 
premium payment of around €700 on time, in March or June 2021, and that on both 
occasions the full amounts due were outstanding for more than 30 days. 
Although Ms I had overpaid in the previous policy year, this wasnt enough to cover the total 
amount due by 3 March 2021. CIGNA wrote to Ms I on 1 April 2021, letting her know that her 
premium payment was outstanding, and warning her of the risk of cancellation. And shortly 
after, she made a payment on 6 April, for around €40 which covered the balance of the 
outstanding March premium exactly. 
Ms Is next premium payment of around €700 was due on 3 June 2021, and this wasnt paid 
in time. Ms I made a payment of €361.32 at the end of June 2021, however this didnt cover 
the full amount due. And no further payment was made. 
As such, I think its reasonable that CIGNA went on to cancel Ms Is policy at the end of July 
2021. And that it backdated the cancellation to 3 June 2021, as this was the last point at 
which the premiums were paid up in full. 
Delay in returning the June 2021 payment
The payment Ms I made to CIGNA at the end of June 2021 was insufficient to cover the full 
premium due. And CIGNA later cancelled the policy as Ive explained above, backdating this 
to 3 June 2021. So CIGNA needed to return the additional payment Ms I made, which was 
€361.32. However, it failed to do so. CIGNA has apologised for this error, and offered €110 in compensation for the delay in 
returning the funds, which I think is fair in the circumstances, and is potentially more than I 
would have awarded. 
Communications sent in English
Ive considered that CIGNA sent letters chasing payment to Ms I in English. Ms I had 
previously told CIGNA that she didnt speak English and needed correspondence to be sent 
in another language. Having considered Ms Is submissions, I can appreciate how frustrating 
it was for her to receive communications in the wrong language. And I accept that this would 
have caused Ms I confusion, distress and inconvenience.  
CIGNA has said that it was aware of Ms Is language preference, but there are some 
communications which are automatically generated in English. I can understand this may be 
CIGNAs process when using an automated system and that its default language for 
correspondence is English. I dont think this is unreasonable in itself, however I think the 
English correspondence should have been followed up as soon as possible with a translated 
version in Ms Is preferred language.
Ms I received several letters about non-payment of her premiums in English, with no follow 
up in her preferred language. And shes told us she doesnt speak English. The investigator 
recommended Ms I be compensated an additional £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. CIGNA has agreed to pay this amount. And Im satisfied the level of compensation 
is appropriate in these circumstances. 
However, I dont think the language issue means Ms Is policy should be reinstated, or that 
any claims relating to treatment since the cancellation date should be paid. I say this 
because I note CIGNA had previously provided Ms I with its terms and conditions in her 
preferred language. And her policy schedule following the renewal had detailed the dates 
and amounts of her premiums for the policy year. So Im satisfied she was provided with the 
information she needed about making her premium payments and the consequences of not 
doing so, in a format she could understand.  
In addition to this, the evidence Ive seen shows Ms I paid the remaining correct amount 
outstanding from her March 2021 premium shortly after CIGNA wrote to her in early April 
2021. So Im satisfied that despite CIGNAs error in writing to her in English, Ms I had 
sufficient understanding that her premium payment was due, and of the amount which 
needed to be paid. And this leads me to think she would also have had sufficient awareness 
of the premium payment due on 3 June 2021.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to pay the following if it has not already 
done so:
€361.32 in respect of the premium payment Ms I made in June 2021;
€110 in compensation for the delay in returning the above payment; and 
£350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by failing to send communications in 
the agreed language. 
All of the amounts due should be paid to Ms I in Euro, so the award for £350 should be 
converted using the rate on the day the payments is made. If Ms I accepts my final decision, CIGNA must pay the amounts within 28 days of receiving 
Ms Is confirmation of her bank account details. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman