DRN-3797423
The complaint
G  a limited company  is complaining that Brightside Insurance Services Limited (trading 
as CVD) cancelled its commercial vehicle insurance policies. G is also complaining that CVD 
gave it incorrect information about the amount it would have to pay after the policies 
cancellation.
What happened
In March 2021 G took out two annual motor insurance policies through CVD  a broker  to 
cover its vehicles. G wanted to pay the annual premium in monthly instalments. The insurer 
required the annual premium to be paid upfront, so, to enable it to pay the premium in 
instalments, G entered into a finance agreement provided by another company  who I shall 
refer to as C. C paid the premium on Gs behalf and G agreed to repay C in line with the 
terms of the finance agreement.
However, Gs monthly instalments for November and December bounced. G paid the 
November payment manually, but didnt make up the December payment. So C cancelled 
the finance agreement in January 2022 leaving an outstanding balance to pay. 
In February 2022 CVD contacted G to say it would cancel the insurance policies if G didnt 
pay the amount due. G discussed this with CVD but CVD ultimately ended up cancelling the 
policy. G didnt think this was fair and also complained CVD had given incorrect information 
about the amount still outstanding on the finance agreement  CVD said G would owe 
around £300, but it later said G owed around £500. CVD agreed it had given incorrect 
information because it said it hadnt taken into account that G had been given a payment 
holiday in April 2021 and it had been agreed that the deferred payment would be added to 
the end of the finance. So it offered G £50 in compensation. But it didnt think it had acted 
unfairly in cancelling the insurance policy.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as she didnt think it was fair for CVD to have 
cancelled the insurance policy when it did as she thought G was actively engaging with CVD 
around the outstanding debt. She also thought the cost of cancellation was more than the 
refund the insurer gave. So cancelling the policy put the consumer in a worse position. The 
investigator thought CVD should refund the admin charges G was charged when the policy 
was cancelled.
CVD didnt agree with the investigator because it said the terms of the policy allowed it to 
cancel the insurance policy where payments are missed to enable it to prevent the debt from 
increasing.
As CVD didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I do not dispute that the terms of the insurance policy set out that CVD can cancel the policy 
where the policyholder misses payments or the finance agreement is cancelled. But CVD 
should exercise this right fairly and reasonably. 
Its important to note that the annual premium is paid to the insurer upfront, so the insurer is 
not out of pocket where the policyholder misses payment. In not making payments, the 
consumer is breaching the terms of the finance agreement  not the insurance policy. So its 
the finance provider  in this case C  who loses out where monthly payments arent made. I 
think the purpose of the right to cancel the insurance policy where a payment is missed is to 
obtain a refund of premium to reduce the amount owed on the finance agreement.
But in this case, the premium refunds on the two policies were £66.95 and £64.39 
respectively. However, the administration charge for cancellation on each policy was £110  
i.e. more than the refund received. Further to this, CVD also made an additional charge for 
lost commission. So, in cancelling the policies, CVD actually increased the amount G owed 
rather than reduced it.
CVD has said it can cancel the policy to prevent the debt increasing. But, as I said, its act in 
cancelling the policy did precisely the opposite of what it wanted to achieve as it increased 
the size of Gs debt. And, given C had already cancelled the finance agreement, the debt 
wouldnt have increased if the policies stayed active. So it follows that I dont think CVD 
acted fairly in cancelling the insurance policy as it put G in a worse position than it was 
before. Instead, it should have engaged with G  on Cs behalf  to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan to assist G in repaying the amount due and allowed the insurance policy to 
continue until the end.
The investigator has also said CVD shouldnt have cancelled the insurance policy whilst G 
was still engaging with it about repaying the debt. For the avoidance of doubt, I agree with 
what the investigator has said regarding this, but I dont need to expand further on this as 
Ive already said that I dont think it should have cancelled the policy for the reasons Ive set 
out above.
Putting things right
I think CVD should refund the costs of cancellation  i.e. cancellation charges (£220), 
administration fees (£40) and lost commission charges (£12.89) as G wouldnt have been 
charged these had CVD not cancelled the insurance policy. If G hasnt paid the outstanding 
debt, CVD can use this amount to reduce the debt. However, if G has paid this, CVD should 
pay this to G directly. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date G 
paid it until it gets it back. If CVD thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct tax from that interest, it should tell G how much its taken off. It should also give G a 
tax deduction certificate if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
CVD should provide a letter to G setting out that the policy was cancelled in error and 
confirming that G doesnt need to disclose this cancellation to future insurers.
Finally, CVD has offered G £50 in cancellation for the inconvenience G has been caused. I 
think thats fair compensation and CVD should pay this to G directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Brightside Insurance Services Limited to compensate G in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman