DRN-3347831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that they have been locked into paying the standard variable 
rate (SVR) on their mortgage by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) and are unable to apply for 
revised rates. They also complain that the compensation offered by HSBC in respect of this 
in insufficient.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out two interest-only mortgages with HSBC in March 2006 for a term of 
10 years. HSBC agreed to extend this for two years as the property was on the market. They 
also had a homeowner loan running alongside these. In September 2017, Mr and Mrs H 
applied to extend the term of their interest-only mortgages and change to a part interest-only 
part repayment mortgage. However, their application was declined as they planned to use 
their pensions as a repayment method and HSBC no longer accepted pensions as a 
repayment strategy for interest-only mortgages. 
In around May 2018, Mr and Mrs H brought a complaint about HSBC not allowing them to 
use their pensions as a repayment vehicle to this service. In February 2019, our investigator 
upheld their complaint and recommended that HSBC contact Mr and Mrs H to request more 
information about their pensions. He said that HSBC should reassess their application for 
the term extension under the new guidelines introduced by the regulator in April 2014 as part 
of its mortgage market review (the MMR rules).
Mr and Mrs H raised a further complaint with HSBC in March 2020. They said that HSBC 
had locked their accounts, not allowing them to take advantage of extremely low interest 
rates and forcing them into paying the SVR. They said that this was during the period when 
they were in dispute about the expiry dates of the existing mortgage and whilst they had a 
previous complaint with this service, which found in their favour. Mr and Mrs H said that they 
were put at a disadvantage as they couldnt access the interest rates available to other 
customers.
In response, HSBC said that it had contacted Mr and Mrs H in June 2019 in order to 
reassess their application following the recommendation from this service. However, they 
were unwilling to proceed without compensation being offered. In May 2020, HSBC wrote to 
Mr and Mrs H and agreed to pay them £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It 
offered them a mortgage appointment to allow them to apply to extend the term and change 
the rate on their two mortgage accounts and change the rate on their homeowner loan. If Mr 
and Mrs Hs application was successful, HSBC also agreed to refund the difference in 
interest between the interest rate they were quoted in September 2017 and the actual rates 
they were on, in addition to statutory interest upon this figure. 
Mr and Mrs H brought a new complaint to this service in June 2020. They say the £750 they 
were offered in compensation by HSBC for distress is insufficient for actions which they 
believe were punitive because they complained to this service. They would like HSBC to pay 
compensation equivalent to the amount they would have saved had they been able to 
secure the lowest rate offered by HSBC in 2017, along with interest. Mr and Mrs H say that 
the previous investigator tasked HSBC to arrange a branch visit to look at the issues 
regarding their application to extend the term of their mortgage, but it has failed to do this. 
They say that they have been locked into the SVR and are unable to apply for revised rates. 
HSBC does not consent to this service looking at this complaint as it says that it has already 
been dealt with by this service. It says that Mr and Mrs Hs new complaint is inextricably 
linked with their previous complaint about not being able to use their pensions as a 
repayment vehicle. It says that it has made efforts to go through an application with Mr and 
Mrs H but they have refused and requested compensation. HSBC says that, despite this 
service not requesting it to provide compensation, it has made an offer of compensation and 
asked Mr and Mrs H to engage with it and complete a new application.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and found that we wouldnt look at the part of the 
complaint about whether HSBC had fairly assessed Mr and Mrs Hs term end application as 
that had already been considered by this service. However, we could look at what happened 
since the previous outcome was issued by our investigator in February 2019. The 
investigator concluded that HSBC had made efforts to complete the application and it was 
Mr and Mrs Hs choice not to carry out a new application. He therefore didnt recommend 
that HSBC did anything further in this situation. In relation to Mr and Mrs H being on the SVR 
rather than a lower interest rate product, he noted that HSBC had agreed to refund any 
losses should a new application be successful, which was fair and reasonable. The 
investigator also found that the £750 compensation offered by HSBC was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree with the investigators view, so the case has come to me to make a 
decision. They say that they were locked out from applying for a new rate through the online 
portal and  had they had access to the system at that time  they believe they would have 
passed which would have saved them money in interest payments. They also say they have 
chased HSBC to arrange a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I agree with the investigators view for broadly the same 
reasons and I've explained my reasons further below.
I will start by setting out which parts of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint this service should and 
shouldnt look at and then go on to address those issues which we are able to look into.
Which issues should this service look into
Under the rules set by the financial services regulator, this service may dismiss a complaint 
without considering its merits where dealing with such a type of complaint would otherwise 
seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of the 
examples given of such a complaint is where the subject matter of the complaint has 
previously been considered or excluded under the Financial Ombudsman Service (unless 
material new evidence which the ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome has 
subsequently become available to the complainant). Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule 3.3.4 
can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook of rules and guidance (available 
online).
When our investigator issued his view on Mr and Mrs Hs previous complaint in February 
2019, he considered their application for a term extension and the fact that HSBC had 
declined this as it wouldnt consider their pensions as a repayment vehicle. He 
recommended that HSBC contact Mr and Mrs H to request more information about their 
pensions and reassess their application for the term extension under the framework of the 
MMR rules. Our investigator provided Mr and Mrs H with referral rights to have the complaint 
considered by an ombudsman. As they didnt request that their complaint was considered by 
an ombudsman, the complaint was closed. Our service is designed to resolve complaints 
quickly and informally. Were not able to keep complaints open indefinitely. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt get back in touch with us for over sixteen months.Im satisfied that the complaint about Mr and Mrs H not being able to access lower interest 
rates and having to remain on the SVR is as a result of the term extension application being 
declined in 2017. Therefore, this part of the complaint is substantially the same as the one 
we considered in 2019. I understand that Mr and Mrs H are of the view that HSBC should 
have done more and should have offered more compensation. However, I dont consider 
that to be material new evidence which has subsequently come to light which would affect 
the outcome. And Im therefore satisfied that it wouldnt be appropriate for us to consider 
what happened in 2017 again now as weve already given Mr and Mrs H an answer about 
this.
However, we havent previously considered what happened since February 2019, following 
the outcome of Mr and Mrs Hs previous complaint to this service. So I think its appropriate 
for us to look at that part of the complaint now, which includes why Mr and Mrs Hs 
application hasnt been reassessed in line with the recommendation of this service in their 
previous complaint, why they havent been granted a lower interest rate since their previous 
complaint, and whether HSBCs offer of £750 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience is reasonable.
What has happened since Mr and Mrs Hs previous complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that the previous investigator tasked HSBC to arrange a branch visit to 
look at the issues regarding their application to extend the term of their mortgage, but it has 
failed to do this. They say that they have therefore been locked into the SVR and are unable 
to apply for revised rates. 
Ive looked at the investigators recommendation in the previous complaint and, whilst he has 
said that HSBC should reassess Mr and Mrs Hs application, he has not stated that HSBC 
was required to do this specifically in a branch visit. 
The investigator found that the application for a term extension should be reassessed; he did 
not recommend that the application was automatically approved. As is the case for all 
mortgage applications, Mr and Mrs Hs application would be assessed as of the time of the 
application, rather than based on what their financial position may have been five years ago. 
This is to ensure that the lending is suitable and affordable for them. 
If the application is successful, this service would look to put Mr and Mrs H back in the 
position they would have been in had it been properly considered and subsequently 
approved when they applied previously. HSBC has agreed that, if the application is 
successful, it would refund the difference in interest between what Mr and Mrs H have paid 
on the SVR and the interest rate they would have been on had the application been 
successful at that time, along with statutory interest. This is in line with what this service 
would recommend, and I think that this is fair and reasonable.
HSBC says that Mr and Mrs H have been unwilling to engage and complete an application 
as HSBC had not offered any compensation. Although Mr and Mrs H say theyve chased 
HSBC to arrange a review, I havent seen any evidence to support this, other than them 
saying that HSBC has failed to arrange a branch appointment  which Ive dealt with above. 
I have seen correspondence from HSBC to Mr and Mrs H trying to arrange an appointment 
for them to apply for a term extension following the investigators recommendation. Ive also 
seen internal notes setting out that they wouldnt engage as no compensation had been 
offered. In light of this, HSBC reviewed the case again and offered compensation of £750, at 
the same time setting out again that it would offer Mr and Mrs H an appointment to review 
the best interest rates and apply for a term extension. However, Mr and Mrs H didnt accept 
this and brought the matter to this service. 
Having considered the evidence, I am satisfied on balance that HSBC has attempted to 
reassess Mr and Mrs Hs application for a term extension and review the interest rate they 
are on. However, Mr and Mrs H have been unwilling to arrange an appointment to do this as 
they believe they are due more compensation; therefore HSBC hasnt been able to review the application or the interest rates. So I wont be asking HSBC to take any further action in 
the circumstances.
It is a matter for Mr and Mrs H to decide if they want the application to be reassessed in 
accordance with the investigators recommendation. If they continue to choose not to 
engage with HSBC in order to make the application then it cannot be reassessed and it is 
likely that the interest rate they are currently on will not be reviewed. 
Ive also considered whether the £750 compensation is appropriate. I should say that this is 
not a payment made to compensate Mr and Mrs H for any direct loss, but a payment for 
distress and inconvenience. If Mr and Mrs Hs application for a term extension is granted 
following reassessment, then HSBC has agreed to refund the difference in interest payments 
in order to compensate them for direct loss, as set out above. I note that the previous 
investigator did not recommend any compensation for distress and inconvenience and 
HSBC has made the offer notwithstanding this. In light of this I think the offer is reasonable 
and I wont be asking HSBC to offer anything further.  
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but I can't say that 
HSBC has acted unreasonably or unfairly in the circumstances of this case since it was 
previously considered by this service and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require HSBC 
UK Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman