DRN-2837981
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that his fridge claim under his home appliance insurance policy was 
declined by Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd.
What happened
Mr S took out the policy to cover some of his domestic household appliances. He made a 
claim for his fridge when a fault occurred. Bastion asked Mr S to provide proof of purchase 
for the fridge. Mr S said he couldnt provide this as he bought his house in 2018 - and the 
fridge was part of a fitted kitchen already there. Mr S said he did explain this to Bastion when 
he took out the policy.
Bastion declined the claim. It said Mr S hadnt validated his policy in line with the required 
terms. Bastion said its a condition of the policy that your appliance was undamaged and in 
your possession at the point of purchase. The condition requires evidencing by way of 
photographic evidence and proof that You own the equipment. Mr S brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that Mr S did validate his policy by sending 
in photographic evidence. And it was at this point Bastion shouldve checked if the item was 
properly validated and covered under the policy. Bastion also pointed out to this service that 
after further checks it had found the fridge was over 10 years old. It said the policy didnt 
allow cover for items over 10 years old. Our investigator said that if Mr S wouldnt have been 
able to make a claim under the policy due to the items age Bastion should refund the 
premiums and pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Bastion didnt accept this. It said it was the responsibility of Mr S to correctly validate the 
policy. Bastion said that it relied on the information it was given at point of sale. Bastion 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the final response letter Bastion said:  we can confirm  that there  is no valid  proof  of 
ownership  submitted  to substantiate  insurable  interest.  It said:  one  of the key 
requirements  of this home  appliance  insurance  policy  would  be that the proof  of 
ownership  needs  to be in the policyholder's  name.  It concluded  one  of the general  
principles  of insurance  would  be that You alone  are responsible  for purchasing  Your  
appliance  that You own in order  to adequately  secure  cover.
Mr S pointed  out to this service  that he had made  Bastion  aware  that he bought  the 
items  under  the policy  when  they were  included  within  his house  purchase.  Bastion  
were  unable  to find any telephone  call records  from the time to confirm  or deny  this.
However,  Mr S did provide  photographic  details  of the items  in line with the policy  
requirement  when  he set the policy  up. It was only at the point  of claim  that Bastion  
checked  the information  and said the details  werent  enough.  Bastion  said that was 
standard  process  to only check  when  a claim  is made  and not when  the policy  is set up. 
Bastion  said it was Mr Ss responsibility  to make  sure he had validated  the required  
details  correctly.  I dont  think  that is fair and reasonable.  Its clear  that Mr S did provide  
the photographic  details  requested,  the policy  continued,  and premiums  were  collected.  
So as far as Mr S is aware,  he had bought  a policy  and his items  are insured.  If there  
were  issues  with the details  and documents  he provided  it is up to Bastion  to make  him 
aware  of what  else it needed  or to tell him the details  he has provided  werent  suitable  
and it couldnt  provide  him with the cover  he required.
I think  the way Bastion  is suggesting  this policy  works  means  that a customer  could  be 
paying  premiums  for years  for a policy  that is of no use to them.  They  could  find out 
many  years  later,  when  they did make  a claim,  that Bastion  wouldnt  pay it as cover  
could  never  have  applied.  I dont  think  thats  fair or reasonable  as its clear  customers  
are trying  to buy an insurance  policy  to cover  their items.  If this policy  isnt right for 
customers,  they need  to be made  aware  of that so they can arrange  suitable  cover  
elsewhere.
Bastion say that the proof of ownership requirements were not met in this case. Mr S put the 
date he purchased the property as the date he bought the items. Bastion now say this isnt 
the date the fridge was bought new from a shop and thats the date it required for the policy. 
Although I can see the point Bastion is making this isnt something it stated on the details it 
asked Mr S to complete when he took out the policy.
Bastion also advised this service that further checks showed the fridge was over 10 years 
old and the policy specifically excludes items of this age. I accept that the policy does indeed 
say this. But I think that just highlights that Bastion needs to be checking what customers 
want to insure, from the start, otherwise policies might be invalid.
I think its clear that Mr S was trying to get cover for his appliances under this policy. So, I 
dont think its fair to him to have both a claim declined and not get his premiums back either.
Bastion have a duty to treat customers fairly  and in this instance I think the fair thing to do 
is to unwind the policy, and refund the premiums paid.
Its also clear that dealing with this situation has caused distress and inconvenience to Mr S. 
Hes spent a great deal of time trying to get his claim sorted out and paid. He set the policy 
up in good faith and said he followed the requirements as stipulated by Bastion. His claim 
has been delayed and so I agree with our investigator that £50 should be paid as 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
refund all the premiums Mr S has paid for this policy from inception; and,
pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to:
refund all the premiums Mr S has paid for this policy from inception; and, pay £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Bastion Insurance Co.Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman