DRN-3291828
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the service received from AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd 
trading as Aegon, referred to as the business or Aegon.  
In short, Mr C says he and Mrs C are unhappy about the following:
Aegon makes a profit no matter what happens with the investment, but he takes all 
the risk. 
Despite asking Aegon to transfer units in-specie, from one account to another (within 
Aegon), it refused. Instead, the process involved selling units, and then using the 
cash to buy units. This is time wasting, and risky, due to the fluctuations in the unit 
price.   
Aegon initially said/suggested that HMRC had forced it to sell shares. But he spoke 
to HMRC and it informed him that it didnt have a preference as to how firms 
arranged such transfers, so long as the market value is used to calculate tax. Aegon 
has since changed its position regarding what it had initially told him. 
His financial adviser informed him that the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA) has directed Aegon and other firms to use the same financial 
software, to stop forcing customers to convert their holdings into cash, before 
transferring to another account. This shows that the FCA agrees with his complaint 
against Aegon. 
Although Aegon told him that its impossible to arrange zero risk transfers between 
accounts  hes got the evidence to show that this isnt the case.  
After his mother died in 2019, the business refused to let him transfer the units 
without first turning it into cash. The funds were held in cash for 13 days and resulted 
in him losing around £1,000.
In 2020, he was able to transfer investments in-specie from his family consultancy 
company which was being closed down. But in 2021, Aegon again refused to allow 
him to transfer units between his investments without converting to cash. Following 
advice from his financial adviser, he was able to minimize the risk by using funds 
from his savings to buy units and selling the first lot of units to replace the cash in his 
savings in due course. The IFA bore some of the risks and agreed to cover any 
losses incurred. 
Finally, hes unhappy that when he spoke to Aegon about the points above, Aegon 
logged it as a complaint from the outset rather than discussing matters further.    
To put things right, Mr C would like Aegon to transfer his units as instructed, rather than sell 
the units and use cash to purchase more units. Hed also like compensation for his losses. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Its not our role to scrutinise a business operational procedures or processes, thats 
the role of the FCA. 
We consider whether or not the business has behaved reasonably. If the business 
has made a mistake, we can ask it to put things right including replacing any financial 
loss caused by the error. 
The terms and conditions in this make clear: 
oWe will allow re-registrations of allowable investments into all product 
wrappers. Investments that are re-registered remain invested in the market. 
Mr Cs complaint involves a number of accounts with Aegon: 
oHe held two Aegon Retirement Choice (ARC) SIPPs, a Stocks and Shares 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), a General Investment Account (GIA), and 
an ARC flexi-access drawdown account. 
oMrs C held an ISA, a SIPP and a joint GIA. 
oMr Cs late mother previously held a GIA, an ISA, and a family (company) 
GIA.    
Aegon explained that it cant transfer in-specie between GIAs and ISAs, because of 
the differences in tax for these positions. For example, GIAs are liable to Capital 
Gains Tax (CGT) whilst ISAs are not, so the investor would need to sell the holdings 
in the GIA, and settle any outstanding tax liability, before transferring to the ISA. 
Aegon explained that the same also applied to transfers between SIPPs and GIAs. It 
explained that Mr C took tax-free cash from his SIPP and transferred the remaining 
balance to his drawdown account, and then re-invested in the GIA. Because 25% of 
the SIPP was settled tax free, and income tax was due on the drawdown  as well as 
the GIA being liable for CGT  it wasnt possible to make an in-specie transfer. 
Aegon was able to transfer in-specie from Mr Cs company GIA to the joint GIA held 
jointly with another. Because both accounts were GIA, and there were no tax 
complications. 
Aegon explained that it was unable to transfer his share of his late mothers GIA 
because the funds had been paid into the executors account. Its then for the 
executors to decide how the funds are settled. 
Taking the above into account, hes unable to say that Aegon treated Mr C and Mrs 
C unfairly. 
Based on what Mr C says, it seems that HMRC dont have an issue with businesses 
that convert holdings into cash first. Despite what Aegon mightve said to Mr C to 
begin with, it has since corrected its position, after his chat with HMRC was brought 
to its attention. 
Aegon wouldve transferred in-specie if it could, it wouldve been simpler to do so. 
But in the examples given by Mr C, and for the reasons set out above, it couldnt.  
Theres been much correspondence between Mr C and the investigator. In short, Mr C 
disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He also 
provided further evidence following discussions with his financial adviser which he believes 
proves that Aegon could transfer units in-specie but refused to do so. In summary, he said:
He doesnt think that Aegon is being honest about things. 
From the historic Net Asset Value (NAV) curve it seems a customer is likely (in some 
cases twice as likely) to lose units, rather than to gain units. And regardless, Aegon 
still takes its fees. 
Aegons refusal to carry out instructions to simply transfer units forces unwanted risk 
on the customer. Aegons actions are also against FCA principles relating to 
customers interests and conflict of interest, therefore Aegon has a responsibility to 
put things right.  
Aegons argument that GIA transfers need to be cashed, to enable tax to be settled, 
is deliberately misleading  there has been no tax due on his GIA to ISA transfer. Its 
normal for customers to be advised to stay below the CGT threshold. Aegons argument regarding the SIPP to GIA transfer is also nonsense because he 
deliberately keeps below the tax thresholds. Last year Aegon applied an emergency 
tax code rather than liaising with HMRC to confirm that he had no PAYE income in 
the year. So instead, he had to contact HMRC to sort matters. He doesnt think that 
100% of the units need to be cashed and hed like the investigator to ask Aegon why 
it thinks this is a reasonable approach. 
A tax of 10% was/is payable on all amounts above their personal CGT thresholds, 
despite that Aegon transferred units in-specie. So, this proves that even when tax is 
due in-specie transfers can be done  Aegon is telling lies.  
There was no tax payable on his mothers estate for which he was an executor. 
Instead Aegon insisted that all units were sold. He would like the investigator to ask 
what gives Aegon the right to bully legally appointed executors and cause them to 
lose units. 
He doesnt believe that our service doesnt have the power to interfere with Aegons 
business decisions. If it were true, thered be no point to our service. Its our job to 
ensure that Aegons response to his request are 100% compatible.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
Its true that our service has no power to interfere with a business operational 
procedure, or business decisions, thats the role of the FCA. So, he cant tell Aegon 
how to transfer units.  
Ultimately, GIAs, SIPPs, and ISAs are taxed differently. Despite what Mr C says 
about keeping his taxes below the threshold this wouldnt be the case for everyone  
its not unreasonable for the business to treat Mr C the same as other customers. In 
the circumstances, its a matter for Aegon how it conducts the transfers.  
Aegon has made clear that in the case of death, it can only make in-specie transfers 
for spouses or civil partners. In other words, it cant make an in-specie transfer 
between a mother and her son.  
Any issue Mr C has with the practice of selling units he should take up with the 
industry regulator. Hes unable to safely say that Aegon has made any error with the 
transfer. 
Mr C reiterated that the FCA cant respond to individual customer complaints and that it was 
our job to look into the way Aegon chose to transfer accounts. He also raised issues to do 
with the list of transactions hes seen  he feels Aegon is creating a transaction history that 
hasnt taken place. Despite refusing to make in-specie transfers Aegon seems to be doing it 
anyway. 
Aegon made the following key observations:
Having checked the document supplied by Mr C with his commentary, it confirmed 
that it wasnt a document that it supplied but appears to have been downloaded by 
Mr Cs adviser. 
There appears to be an error that led to the summary being produced with the Notes 
column giving the impression that £40,000 had been re-registered. It will look into 
why this happened but doesnt accept that this has given Mr C the impression that it 
had carried out a re-registration from his joint GIA to his and his wifes ISAs. 
Mr C said that this information was requested to help with his 2019/20 tax returns, 
but the transaction took place in 2018/19  and Mr C and his adviser wouldve been 
aware that this was being done as a sell down in the GIA, and transfer of cash to the 
ISA. This doesnt have a bearing on Mr Cs claim about losses. The investigator having considered all the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
He agrees that the summary from the website is unclear. However, he can see that 
when the transfer took place, it was made clear that Aegon was transferring the 
holdings into cash, before putting the funds into the two ISAs which Mr C wouldve 
been aware of at the time. 
Overall, he doesnt agree that Aegon treated Mr C unfairly.  
Mr C remains unhappy and reiterated his wish to refer the matter to an ombudsman. In 
short, he made the following points:
The document in question was produced by Aegon because his IFA downloaded it 
from its website. Aegons arguing because it didnt get a chance to craft the 
document. 
Why is the investigator simply allowing Aegon to say that its document is wrong? Its 
likely the computer is right and Aegon is trying to re-write history in an effort to 
mislead the ombudsman. 
What hes saying  and what the document shows  suggests that Aegon is 
transferring in-specie.  
Further evidence from March 2022 shows that despite no tax being due Aegon still 
forced him to take the risky route via cash transfer.  
During a number of transactions, cash was used to purchase units on his behalf over 
multiple dates  in a different ratio to his normal half plus two quarter spread  he 
doesnt know why this was done. 
Due to the NVA of the units, hes lost over £500. Something needs to be done about 
this financial abuse. 
He was also charged £75 this year  he suspects itll be somewhere in the terms and 
conditions. But Aegon has charged him £75 for watching £520.94 worth of units 
being taken away from his investment and pension portfolio.   
He wonders whether the £75 was a discretionary punishment for his complaint to our 
service. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same 
reasons. The most pertinent points have been covered by the investigator in his view, 
leaving little for me to comment upon. I dont uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, Im unable to safely 
say that Aegon behaved unreasonably by not transferring units between accounts as 
requested by Mr C.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. He and his financial adviser have 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope Mr C wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C, and Aegon, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Despite what Mr C says, Im unable to safely say that the business did anything wrong by 
selling units and using the cash to purchase new units  rather than transferring units directly  
from one account to another, as instructed (and preferred) by him.    
Whether (or not) it was technically possible to simply transfer units between all accounts  
perhaps using a different computer system  doesnt mean that the business has done 
anything wrong by not doing so, even if it might be more efficient and/or less risky. Despite 
what Mr C says, it isnt wrong or unreasonable because theres a reason for the business 
method. 
Even if Aegon had/has a discretion about what transfer method it used, its not for me to tell 
the business how to exercise that discretion. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im 
unable to safely say that the business behaved unreasonably.
I note by converting units to cash, the business locks in the value of the units from any 
adverse market movements. Nevertheless, I appreciate it can also mean that less units can 
get re-purchased using the cash if the value of the units goes up. However, a financial 
business isnt responsible for market movements, and thats why I dont think its responsible 
for the financial loss claimed by Mr C. 
I appreciate what Mr C says about historic trends, but past performance isnt a guarantee of 
future performance. Notwithstanding the mechanism by which the funds were/are 
transferred, I dont agree with Mr C that a customer is forced to do anything that they dont 
want to do, or havent agreed to do, in order to achieve their objective of transferring funds. 
For the reasons already explained above, regardless of the merits of an alternative method 
of transfer, I cant say that the method employed by Aegon was wrong, or that it was 
deliberately done to place customers at risk of losing out. 
Its a matter for Aegon  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  
how it runs its affairs. As I explained above, its not generally for us to tell Aegon how to run 
its business. Despite what Mr C says, thats not the point of our service.   
  
I also note that the HMRC has no preference or issues with businesses that convert units 
into cash before transferring, as long as the tax is paid. Based on what Aegon says, its 
seems that its the difference in tax that is the principle reason behind why it cant (or wont) 
transfer between the different accounts.  
For example, I note Aegon says that GIAs are liable to CGT whilst ISAs are not, so the 
investor would need to sell the holdings in the GIA, and settle any outstanding tax liability, 
before transferring to the ISA. I note this assumes that there might be a tax liability and I 
accept that not all investors will have a such tax liability, but that of itself isnt a reason to 
treat those that dont any different. 
I note what Mr C says about operating under the tax bracket, but the general principle 
applies to all customers, regardless of whether or not they have a tax liability. So, in the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont agree with Mr C that the tax reason is a nonsense. 
I note what Mr C says about recent transfers he made in 2021  from his SIPP pension to 
GIA, and separately from GIA to ISA  and that on both these occasions the business 
refused to transfer the units in-specie  the above explains why his was the case.  
The above notwithstanding, Im aware Aegon says thats its possible to transfer units in-
specie in some instances  for example GIA to GIA accounts in Mr Cs name  and where it 
has been possible it has done so. Ive seen nothing to suggest that this wasnt the case. 
However, I appreciate that this might explain why Mr C thinks that Aegon transfers units 
when it wants to, but not when it is instructed to do so.
If Aegon is told to do something different going forward, it doesnt mean that compensation is 
automatically due, because in my opinion it hasnt done anything wrong. On balance Im 
satisfied that the business operated in a way that it was entitled to at the time, so hasnt 
done anything wrong, even if it decides to do things differently in future. 
I appreciate what Mr C says about the busines not transferring shares inherited from his 
mothers estate. I note the business explained that was because the shares werent his  he 
didnt (automatically) own them  they had to go to his late mothers estate. Unless the 
situation involved a spouse or a civil partner  where transfer in-specie can be possible  I 
know that going through the estate, even for parent and child, is a common industry practice.   
I note what Mr C says about the delay in selling the units and transferring cash only to buy 
shares again, but in this instance the business had to follow procedure  it doesnt mean the 
business has behaved unreasonably, regardless of whether or not any tax was due. It 
wouldnt be for Aegon to second guess the tax position of a deceased customers estate in 
any case. And, with Mr C as an executor  entitled to a share of the estate  it was all the 
more reason to do things correctly.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think Aegon has done anything wrong 
by treating Mr Cs correspondence as a complaint and issuing an FRL dealing with his main 
points. Evidently Mr C is and was unhappy with Aegon not transferring units in-specie 
between all accounts. 
I also dont think the business has done anything wrong by refusing to set aside its FRL. 
Once an FRL has been issued, for the purposes of jurisdiction, the clock starts ticking. 
A financial business is obliged to provide a final response to a customer within eight weeks 
and offer referral rights to our service in the event that the customer is unhappy with the 
business response. Or if the business is unable to provide an FRL within eight weeks, its 
obliged to provide referral rights to our service.
 
Providing the FRL meets the criteria, a customer will have up to six months within which to 
refer the complaint to our service. Whether or not a customer continues to engage with the 
business during this period is immaterial as the six-month time limit still stands. And once a 
complaint has been referred to our service, its usually the case that the parties will 
correspond through us. 
Despite what Mr C says, a business is entitled to take a fee for providing the advice and or 
platform to invest. This is part of the agreement that a customer is made aware of and 
agrees to before they can proceed. Theres no material relationship between that and the 
investment risk that an investor is willing to take to achieve their financial objective. Despite what Mr C says, Aegon is paid, and is entitled to be paid, for providing a service 
which is the cost of business. Mr C is the investor, who will enjoy the benefits or any positive 
returns and not the business which is only providing a service.  
Im mindful of what Mr C says about the charge recently applied to his transfer. Despite what 
he says, Im unable to agree that its a penalty imposed on him for complaining to our 
service. Ive asked the business to provide Mr C with an explanation. If there is a 
discrepancy it can look into it in due course  as matters stand its not a reason for me to 
uphold this complaint.   
I appreciate what Mr C says about the FCA but reporting a matter to the FCA is a means of it 
gathering information against a business and being able to decide whether (or not) to act.  I 
appreciate it wont deal with the matter as a complaint from Mr C but thats not a reason for 
him not to notify the FCA of the issue.    
I appreciate Mr C will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman