DRN-1740827
The complaint
Mr F complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt properly 
pursue a chargeback request on his behalf.
What happened
On 18 March 2019 Mr F purchased four tyres from an online retailer Ill refer to as B in this 
decision. The tyres cost just over £575, which included delivery charges and Mr F paid for 
them using his AESEL charge card.
Mr F said one of the rear tyres developed a leak in the sidewall and blew out from inside 
while he was driving  leading him to believe it was faulty. So he had to replace that tyre and 
fit a new one, which incurred a cost of £240.78.
Mr F initially raised a dispute with B directly and asked it to reimburse him the cost of the 
replacement tyre. But it rejected his request for a refund and refuted that the tyre was faulty.
Mr F was dissatisfied with how B had dealt with his refund request. So, on 16 April 2019, he 
raised a chargeback request with AESEL online. Given his concerns about the tyre, he 
selected the ISO code for goods not as described or defective. He provided evidence hed 
attempted to resolve matters with B and information to assist AESEL in dealing with his 
chargeback claim. And he said the tyre could only have blown out due to it being faulty at the 
point of sale. 
AESEL contacted B to ask it whether it accepted or defended Mr Fs chargeback request. 
And it applied a credit of £240.78 pending B's response. On 17 April 2019, AESEL wrote to 
Mr F to explain the process and advise a credit for the disputed amount had been applied to 
his account. However, it told him that could be reviewed if B responded.
When B responded it told AESEL it was defending the chargeback because the tyre must 
have blown due to impact. It said, as this wasnt a manufacturing defect, it didnt accept it 
was liable for the damage. 
Based on Bs response AESEL rejected the dispute. It said B had provided evidence that it 
had fulfilled the order Mr F had placed. And it said disputes based on the quality of goods 
purchased couldnt be considered where a merchant was based outside the USA. So, it 
informed Mr F of the outcome to his chargeback request, re-debited his account in the 
disputed amount and notified him that this was due for payment.
Mr F declined to make payments to his account. So, AESEL sent him a notice of default on 
23 July 2019. One month later, it sent him a notice of termination as the balance of his 
account remained outstanding. AESEL referred Mr Fs account to a debt collection agency 
and it recorded information about how he had managed his account with Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs).
When Mr F complained to ASEL about how it had deal with his chargeback request. He said 
he didnt accept that B had provided evidence proving that the tyre wasnt faulty. And he thought that, as hed been told by AESEL over the telephone it would refund the cost of the 
replacement tyre, it had acted unfairly in re-debiting that amount from his account. Mr F also 
told AESEL he wanted it to remove the financial information it had reported to CRAs 
because this had severely impacted his credit file and led to a reduction in the credit limits he 
held with financial institutions elsewhere.
AESEL investigated Mr Fs concerns but it didnt feel it had made an error. It felt it had 
correctly pursued his claim with B but wasnt able to assist any further due to the response it 
had received. So, it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr F wasnt happy with AESELs response to his complaint. He wanted a permanent credit 
applying to his account to cover the cost of the replacement tyre and he wanted AESEL to 
remove the information it had recorded on his credit file. So, he referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator empathised with Mr F but didnt uphold his complaint. Overall, they didnt 
think AESEL had acted unreasonably or treated Mr F unfairly. So, they didnt think it needed 
to do anymore here. But Mr F disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered 
everything Mr F and AESEL have told our service, but Ill concentrate my comments on what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take 
it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to 
reach what I think is the right outcome
The first part of Mr Fs complaint is about whether AESEL pursued his chargeback request 
properly. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
I can understand why Mr F might be upset that he wasnt offered more assistance by B when 
he raised concerns about the quality of the tyre that blew. However, this complaint is against 
AESEL. So, I wont comment on the actions B took here or how it responded to Mr Fs 
concerns.
My role here is to assess whether I think AESEL made a mistake, or treated Mr F unfairly in 
how it dealt with his chargeback request, such that it needs to now put things right. And, 
having thought carefully about everything he and AESEL have said, Im afraid to say that I 
dont think it did. I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can 
understand the reasons behind my decision.
I think its important to explain at the outset of this decision that chargeback is the process by 
which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, 
under the relevant card scheme rules. So, in certain circumstances a customer may ask their 
card issuer to reverse payments made on their card  such as where there's a problem with 
the transaction. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. So, a consumer doesnt have a right to bring a 
claim. Although theres no obligation on AESEL to do a chargeback, we consider it good 
practice for a business to try to claim if it has good reason to do so. But its important to note that, even if a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a 
consumer will receive a refund because it may be defended by the merchant in line with the 
relevant card scheme rules.
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. So, Amexs role here is to raise the appropriate chargeback, 
and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant chargeback rules.  
In this case Mr F disputed this transaction on the grounds that one of the tyres he purchased 
from B was faulty. AESELs chargeback rules allow a chargeback to be made when goods 
and services are "not as described or defective ". I understand that he raised a chargeback 
request with AESEL online and selected the ISO code that correctly identified the problem 
he was raising.
After AESEL started the chargeback process on Mr Fs behalf it wrote to him promptly. And it 
applied a temporary refund to his account. This was in line with what Id expect it to do. 
The letter AESEL sent Mr F stated please keep in mind that if the Merchant does send us 
documentation to support the charge at a later date we may reverse the credit applied on 
your account.
I think this clearly explains the credit may be reversed. Mr F told our investigator that AESEL 
agreed that the tyre was defective. But, based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded ASEL 
gave Mr F an assurance that the refund wouldnt be reversed as he believes. So, Im 
satisfied it acted correctly here.
I can see that B submitted a defence to the chargeback. It told AESEL the cut to the sidewall 
of the tyre was indicative of impact damage, which could potentially be caused by driving 
over a sharp object in the road, potholes or impact from mounting sharply onto pavements. 
And it said, as there was no evidence of a manufacturing defect, a warranty claim didnt 
arise. So, it didn't agree to provide a refund to Mr F. 
In this case AESEL told Mr F and our service the information it received from B was 
sufficient, and so it followed its rebilling process. And I can see it informed Mr F on 2 May 
2019 that it intended to re-debit his account and the reasons why, which is what Id expect. 
I appreciate Mr F was unhappy AESEL reversed the refund it had applied after B responded 
with its defence. But reversing a refund isnt unreasonable where a merchant defends a 
chargeback and provides evidence to support the disputed transaction. 
I can see Mr F disputes the adequacy of the evidence B provided. But what AESEL had to 
initially consider was whether B had fulfilled Mr Fs order, which it was able to show. And, 
while B accepted the tyre was damaged, its clear that it felt this had been caused by impact 
rather than a manufacturing defect. 
Ive seen the photographs Mr F took of the damaged tyre. He says they show theres no 
external damage to the outside sidewall or alloy wheel, which he feels prove the leak wasnt 
caused by external impact on the tyre. I appreciate the comments hes made. But Im not 
persuaded the photographs show me how the damage occurred. And, as our investigator 
said, theres no independent evidence showing the cause of the damage. 
Mr F feels AESEL missed the point of his complaint. But I dont agree because its clear from 
the information its provided that it understood Mr Fs chargeback claim was based on his 
belief that his tyre was faulty.AESEL said when a consumer raises a chargeback request on the basis of a faulty purchase 
it isnt able to pursue that claim on a customers behalf if the merchant is based outside the 
USA. Ive seen evidence of this scheme condition. So, Im satisfied that what AESEL says 
here is correct. And Im persuaded that this is the reason why AESEL was unable to pursue 
Mr Fs chargeback request any further.
In this case B is based in England. So, there were limitations as to what AESEL could do on 
Mr Fs behalf. I appreciate Mr F may want out service to tell AESEL to do more to assist him 
with his chargeback claim. However, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. 
We provide informal dispute resolution. So, I dont have the power to tell AESEL to change 
its chargeback terms or tell it how to run its chargeback scheme. Its entitled to exercise its 
own commercial judgment about that. And this means I cant require it to deal with Mr Fs 
chargeback request in the way he would like.
Overall though, Im satisfied AESEL dealt with Mr Fs chargeback under the correct code. 
Based on what Ive seen Im persuaded it adhered to the terms of its own scheme. Because 
of this, I cant say that it acted unfairly in declining Mr Fs chargeback request. It follows that 
Im not asking it to take any further action.
I can see that Mr F raised concerns with our investigator that AESEL didnt pursue his refund 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. But that wasnt possible because Mr F held a 
charge card with AESEL and section 75 applies to credit card. So, it was reasonable for 
AESEL to only pursue chargeback here.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Fs complaint, which is about the information AESEL 
recorded on his credit file. 
After Mr F was notified by AESEL of the outcome of her chargeback request I can see he 
was informed his account would be re-debited in the disputed sum and that hed need to pay 
this. This happened as soon as AESEL had received and considered Bs response to his 
chargeback request. So, Im satisfied AESEL acted promptly and without delay.
I can see AESEL sent Mr F text messages to remind him that payment to his account was 
due. Im satisfied these were received because Ive seen Mr Fs responses to those 
messages. I can also see that AESEL sent Mr F a statement showing the amount in dispute 
was due for payment and the deadline by which payment had to be made. 
Ive considered the notice of default AESEL sent to Mr F on 23 July 2019.  I can see that this 
warns his account may be referred to a debt collection agency and information regarding the 
status of his account would be reported to CRAs. 
I can see that, on 16 August 2019, Mr F was notified again that his account was overdue, 
payment was due in full immediately and AESEL would report to CRAs about this.  
I appreciate Mr F disagreed with the outcome of his chargeback claim. But, because his 
payment to B had been made using his a charge card, he was required to pay the balance in 
full each month. 
In not making payments to his account Mr F breached the terms and conditions of his charge 
card agreement with AESEL. And Im satisfied he ought to have been aware his credit file 
may be impacted. I think this was made clear to him by AESEL in the correspondence it sent 
Mr F.
I understand that Mr Fs last payment to AESEL was made on 16 April 2019. And AESEL 
said it registered the default in December 2019. I appreciate the default may adversely affect Mr Fs credit score for some time. But, financial businesses should ensure that the 
information they report to credit reference agencies is accurate. 
Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) state that any data 
reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to date. Based on what 
Ive seen Im satisfied AESEL recorded information about the conduct of Mr Fs account 
correctly  which is what wed expect a business to do. And this means I cant ask it to 
remove that information as its a true reflection of what happened. 
I realise Mr F will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with AESEL informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr F 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman