DRN-4301693
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) dealt with a claim 
against his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr R has private medical insurance underwritten by WPA. On 
19 May 2022, Mr Rs GP referred him for investigations for a breast lump. On               
26 May 2022, Mr R made a claim against his private medical insurance policy. On the 
same date, WPA authorised Mr Rs claim for out-patient tests and investigations such as 
x-rays, ultrasound and blood tests. Ill refer to that authorisation in more detail below. 
On 27 May 2022, Mr R saw a consultant and had blood tests, an ultrasound, biopsy and 
x-ray. He had a further consultation on 1 June 2022. On 9 June 2022, WPA authorised 
complex scans and diagnostic surgical procedures. Mr R had a further consultation on    
5 July 2022. 
WPA subsequently settled Mr Rs claim in part, leaving a shortfall for Mr R to pay. Mr R 
didnt think that was fair and pursued his complaint. 
Mr R says that WPAs letter of 26 May 2022 led him to believe that all his treatment and 
tests were covered. He says that he was highly anxious about his health and didnt have 
time to phone WPA to check if the tests and investigations were covered. Mr R says that 
its unreasonable to expect him to understand that a mammogram, ultrasound and blood 
tests would all be considered simple tests and subject to the £350 limit. He says that if 
hed known that he had to pay he would have reconsidered and had the tests and 
investigations in the NHS. Mr R wants WPA to settle his claim in full.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that WPA had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that WPA had handled the claim in line with the 
policy terms. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that WPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint because I dont think that WPA treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and on what terms and set these 
out in the terms and conditions of the policy. In Mr Rs case, theres a           
Shared Responsibility (a co-payment) of 25% up to a maximum of £250 each 
policy year and an out-patient limit of £350 each policy year.
Ive looked carefully at WPAs letter to Mr R of 26 May 2022. That letter authorised 
out-patient tests and investigations such as x-rays, ultrasound and blood tests but 
didnt authorise more complex scans, investigations or treatment including diagnostic 
surgical procedures. WPA said that it required a report from Mr Rs GP in order to 
authorise complex investigations or treatment. That letter also enclosed WPAs terms 
and conditions of its authorisation, which summarised the relevant benefit limit of 
£350 and the Shared Responsibility payment. 
In its letter to Mr R on 9 June 2022, WPA also authorised complex scans and 
diagnostic surgical procedures. It again referred to the benefit limit and Shared 
Responsibility payment. 
I think that the information WPA provided to Mr R was clear and not misleading. I 
appreciate that Mr R was worried about his health and wanted to progress things as 
quickly as possible, but I dont think that alters the outcome here. WPA was entitled 
to assess Mr Rs claim in accordance with the policy terms. I dont think that it acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
In his exchanges with WPA, Mr R said it wasnt clear what amounted to a simple test 
and came within the £350 benefit limit. As Ive said above, I think that WPAs 
authorisation letters were clear. In any event, the out-patient benefit limit was 
exceeded on 27 May 2022. So further consideration of the difference between simple 
tests and complex tests, investigations and treatment wouldnt alter the outcome 
here.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
WPA to settle his claim in full. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman