DRN-2864773
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
The policy was bought in 2004 in connection with a further advance Mrs S took out on her 
mortgage. It covered Mrs S if she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs Ss needs?
- Did Halifax give Mrs S the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
S is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Halifax didnt make Mrs S aware that the policy was 
optional. On balance I think its likely that the bank gave Mrs S a choice about buying it, and 
she decided to take out the cover.
Halifax accepts that it advised Mrs S to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mrs S was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mrs S says she was entitled to employer benefits if she couldnt work due to sickness 
or accident, and that her partner wouldve helped if things went wrong. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Ss employer benefits. Having the policy in place 
wouldve meant Mrs S could use her employer benefits and support from her partner 
to pay for other expenses. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her, 
despite her existing arrangements. 
- Mrs S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations. 
- I cant be sure that Halifax made Mrs S aware of the policy cost before she agreed to 
buy it. But she took out the cover knowing she would have to pay something for it.  
The policy was competitively priced and the benefit covered her monthly mortgage 
payments. So I think it unlikely Mrs S would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Mrs S considers the policy terms for payment of disability benefit are restrictive. She says 
they werent pointed out or properly explained to her by Halifax when she bought the policy.
As such, she considers the information she received from Halifax was misleading, and that 
the policy was mis-sold. Ive noted everything Mrs S has said.
But Im satisfied that the wording is typical of disability terms found in some other PPI 
policies. Im also mindful that the policy provided unemployment cover, in addition to 
disability benefit. 
When I take these points into account, even if the wording had been pointed out to Mrs S, on 
balance I cant safely say she wouldve made a different decision about buying the policy.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman