DRN-2188746
The complaint
 Mr W has complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans acted irresponsibly 
when it accepted him as guarantor for a loan.
 
What happened
Mr W entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £7,500 loan that 
Buddy Loans provided to a family member, the borrower, in June 2018. The loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £296. The total amount to be repaid over the 
five-year loan term was around £17,776 including interest. 
I understand that the borrower has had difficulties repaying the loan and Mr W has been 
called upon the repay the loan as guarantor. Mr W thinks Buddy Loans didnt carry out 
sufficient checks and says that he couldnt afford to guarantee the loan. 
The adjudicator looked into Mr Ws complaint and thought that Buddy Loans ought not to 
have accepted him as the loan guarantor. Buddy Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators 
assessment. So the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when 
it accepted Mr W as guarantor for the loan. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Mr Ws complaint. In doing so, I have considered the overarching 
questions:
Did Buddy Loans obtain Mr Ws properly informed consent to become guarantor for 
the loan?
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower 
did not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Ultimately, did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision (as Mr W would be equally 
liable for this loan with the borrower).
From what Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr W did consent to becoming the loan guarantor 
and I think its likely that he understood the consequences of being a guarantor.  
The rules and regulations required Buddy Loans to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Mr W could afford to repay this loan in a sustainable manner, should 
the borrower fail to do so, as he was equally liable with the borrower. It had to carry out this 
guarantor-focussed assessment in addition to the proportionate checks it was required to 
undertake in relation to the borrower. In effect this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure 
that, if the guarantee was enforced against Mr W, it wouldnt adversely impact his financial 
situation.
There was no set list of checks that Buddy Loans had to do, but it could consider a number 
of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment 
amounts, and the guarantors overall financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to for the 
guarantor make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the loan is 
likely to be greater and the guarantor might be required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been guaranteeing loans for the borrower (reflecting the 
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loan, if he 
was called to do so  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds 
and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower (or in Mr Ws case, the guarantor) wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make the repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr W. 
Buddy Loans asked Mr W for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired 
a credit report, a payslip and a pension statement. Buddy Loans says the checks it carried 
out before it accepted Mr W as the loan guarantor were reasonable and proportionate. The 
credit report showed that Mr W had total debt outstanding of around £5, 051 but he had a 
high credit limit utilisation. Mr W held credit cards and an unsecured loan, but all payments 
were up to date and there were no defaults. Buddy Loans assessed that Mr W could afford 
to repay the loan, if called to do so as guarantor. 
From what I understand, this was the second time that Mr W had acted as loan guarantor for 
the borrower. From what Buddy Loans has told us it seems that the borrower first took a loan 
earlier in 2018 but then applied for further lending a few months later  which Mr W has 
complained about. 
I have not seen any further information about the borrowers financial position or why he 
returned for further lending from Buddy Loans only a short time after taking the first loan. But 
it does suggest to me that the borrower was not managing to get out from under his financial 
problems. I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have considered this when assessing Mr 
Ws application to act as loan guarantor as it could have suggested there was a higher risk 
that the loan guarantee would be called upon.
This was an expensive loan, repayable over five years. Buddy Loans was aware from its 
checks that Mr Ws income included monthly pension income and employment earnings 
which were paid weekly and could fluctuate, according to the amount of overtime he worked. 
In the particular circumstances, I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that 
for its checks for this particular customer to be reasonable and proportionate, it needed an in 
depth understanding of his financial situation - to ensure that he could sustainably repay the 
loan, if required to do so as guarantor. So I think Buddy Loans should have gone further with 
its checks on this occasion and carried out more detailed checks to establish Mr Ws 
financial position  for example by asking to see his bank statements.
Mr W has provided us with copies of his bank statements so I can determine what better 
checks might have shown to Buddy Loans at that time. Of course, different checks might 
show different things. But I think if Buddy Loans had carried out what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, I think its likely that Buddy Loans would have realised that whilst Mr 
W was managing to cover his monthly outgoings, he was often overdrawn at the end of the 
month and his employment earnings were variable. Buddy Loans was required to establish 
whether Mr W could sustainably make the loan repayments, if called upon as loan guarantor 
 not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that if Mr W was 
called upon to repay the loan in place of the borrower, he would most likely struggle to meet the loan repayments of nearly £300 a month, as an extra call on his resources, every month 
for five years.
In addition, Buddy Loans was aware that Mr W was over the age of retirement and that his 
pension income alone was unlikely to be sufficient for him to sustainably repay the loan as 
guarantor. Given the loan term, Mr W would potentially have to maintain his employed 
earnings for a further 5 years  up to the age of around 72 - in order to repay over £17,000 
to Buddy Loans. I think this is a marginal decision, but taking the picture as a whole, I think 
Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr W would be able 
to sustainably repay the loan, if he was called to do so as guarantor, over the full five-year 
loan term. I think in the circumstances Buddy Loans should reasonably have concluded it 
was not appropriate to accept Mr W as loan guarantor. 
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Buddy Loans has treated Mr W unfairly in 
any other way. But overall, I dont think that Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have 
accepted Mr W as loan guarantor. He was expected to make repayments on a loan where 
he shouldnt have been accepted as guarantor and I think Buddy Loans needs to put things 
right.
 
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far 
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now 
if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this means Buddy Loans putting Mr 
W in the position hed now be in if he hadnt unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor on 
this loan.
Buddy Loans should put things right for Mr W by:
a) Releasing Mr W from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Mr W as guarantor. Buddy Loans must add 8%* 
simple interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Mr W paid them to the 
date the refund is paid to him.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Advancis Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2021.
 
Sharon ParrOmbudsman