DRN-2062499
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to terminate her 
income protection claim. 
Mrs T is represented in this complaint but, for ease, all submissions will be referenced as 
being made by Mrs T directly. 
What happened
Mrs T had the benefit of a group income protection policy through her employer  a bank. 
The policy was designed to provide a regular benefit in the event that an employee became 
incapacitated and unable to work. And in late 2016 Mrs T made a claim on it, stating that 
severe anxiety and issues with sleep were preventing her from working. 
Following her claim, Aviva arranged an independent medical examination (IME) for Mrs T 
which took place in early 2017. That IME concluded Mrs T was unable to work, so Aviva 
approved her claim and began paying a regular benefit under the policy.
Aviva carried out periodic reviews of Mrs Ts claim. But in 2018 it said there wasnt enough 
evidence to demonstrate that she still remained unfit for work. Aviva arranged a second IME 
which took place in early 2019. Bu that IME concluded Mrs T was fit to return to work via a 
phased return, so Aviva decided to terminate her claim. 
Mrs T complained about what had happened; raising concerns about the IMEs timeliness 
and findings around her ability to resume work. 
Aviva apologised for the timeliness issues. But it maintained its decision to terminate Mrs Ts 
claim and said it would be paying her a proportionate benefit for eight weeks  to provide an 
income during any phased return to work.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mrs T approached this service. She reiterated her 
concerns and provided an occupation health (OH) report from 2019, which she said 
supported her position and should outweigh the IMEs findings. She also cited concerns 
about the availability of roles within the bank should she return to work. 
An investigator reviewed what had happened. But based on the available evidence they 
didnt think Aviva had acted unreasonably and in summary said:
The OH report didnt carry as much weight as the IME, because it had been based 
on a telephone assessment and was written in much less detail.
Avivas role had been to assess Mrs Ts capacity to work, not the availability of roles, 
and it had acted fairly in providing a proportional benefit to cover any phased return.
It wouldnt be fair to hold Aviva responsible for the timeliness issues surrounding the 
IME, because that had been caused by a third party.
Mrs T disagreed with those findings and in summary said:
The policy was designed to protect staff who had long term health issues and she fell 
into that category. 
The 2019 IME report had taken three months to be produced, she doubted whether it 
truly represented the facts of her health and, although it wasnt stated in the report, 
the IME consultant had told her she wasnt fit to work. 
Both the 2017 IME and the 2019 OH report said she was unable to work, and that 
should outweigh the 2019 IME. 
The only available job roles would have been at one of the banks branches, but she 
was unable to walk through the doors without shaking.
So as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts policy was designed to provide a regular benefit in the event that she became 
incapacitated and unable to work. Mrs Ts says she falls into that category. But in order to 
continue receiving a benefit from that policy, she needs to satisfy its terms and conditions on 
an ongoing basis. 
The policy states, Incapacity or Incapacitated shall mean that a member is incapacitated, by 
reason of illness or injury, when the insurer is satisfied that the member is incapable of 
performing the material and substantial duties of his or her own occupation and is not 
following any other occupation. 
So it wouldnt be enough for the available evidence in this case to show that Mrs T was 
unwell. It would need to show that she was incapable of performing the material and 
substantial duties of her own occupation on an ongoing basis. 
The findings of the 2019 IME say that Mrs T is currently fit to return to material and 
substantial duties of her occupation on a part-time basis. Mrs T is concerned about delays 
in the IMEs findings, and I accept they did take a long time to be provided to Aviva. But 
Aviva has apologised to Mrs T for those delays, and it has fed back to the responsible third 
party too. I think that was a reasonable response on Avivas part, and it would be unfair of 
me to hold Aviva responsible for the actions of a third party. 
Mrs T has said the IME doesnt represent the facts of her examination, and the consultant 
told her she wasnt fit to resume work. But, apart from Mrs Ts testimony, theres no 
additional evidence to corroborate this, and I dont think itd be fair of me to conclude that 
Mrs T was told she was not fit for work. Thats not to say that Mrs T wasnt told that  just 
that theres not enough evidence for me to fairly conclude that she was. 
I know Mrs T also disagrees with the findings of the latest IME, and thinks the first IME (in 
2017) and the OH report (in 2019) should outweigh it. But, Im not persuaded that is was 
unreasonable of Aviva to have relied on the latest IMEs findings in the circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why.
The 2017 IME did find that Mrs T was not fit to return to the substantial duties of her usual 
occupation. But that IME was specific to Mrs Ts circumstances at the time. And it noted that 
her ability to resume work in the future might go on to change. 
The 2019 OH report also found that Mrs T was not fit for work. But the OH report was based on a telephone assessment of Mrs Ts reported symptoms, whereas the IMEs were 
conducted face to face. Further, it appears that unlike the IMEs, wider medical evidence 
relating to Mrs Ts medical history was not made available for the 2019 OH assessment. So 
for these reasons I am not persuaded that either the 2017 IME or the 2019 OH report should 
outweigh the findings of the 2019 IME.
In relation to the concerns Mrs T has raised about the practicalities of returning to work, like 
our investigator explained, Avivas role in this case wasnt to assess the availability of job 
roles with her employer. It was to assess the available evidence and decide whether she 
continued to meet the terms and conditions of the group income protection policy  in other 
words, whether she continued to be incapable of performing the material and substantial 
duties of her own occupation. And for the reasons already given above, I am satisfied that 
Aviva did this. 
I realise that Mrs T strongly disagrees with the latest IMEs findings. But my role isnt to 
diagnose her or to determine whether she is incapacitated. It is to consider all the available 
medical evidence and decide whether, based on that evidence, Aviva acted reasonably in 
terminating her claim. So, although I understand Mrs T is likely to be further disappointed by 
this, for the reasons given above I think Aviva have acted reasonably in this case, and I will 
not be interfering with its decision to terminate her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman