DRN-3849222
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as B has complained that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) did not pay
its business interruption insurance claim for the full indemnity period.
Mr M, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriting
syndicate.
What happened
B held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. B claimed on its policy after its business
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. Lloyds
accepted Bs claim as it said the national lockdown was an incident which was covered
under the clause in the policy which covered losses as a result of a notifiable disease within
a 25 mile radius of Bs premises. Lloyds settled Bs claim for losses between 23 March and 
4 November 2020.
B complained to Lloyds as it thought it should receive payment for its losses spanning the
full 12 month maximum indemnity period under the policy. B said that the pandemic which
affected its business in March 2020 was the same pandemic which continued to impact it
throughout the following 12 months. B said the policy didnt specify that the lockdown was
the covered incident. It said the incident which caused its losses in March had continued to
cause its losses beyond November 2020. B said the policy was clear that the indemnity
period ran for 12 months from the insured incident.
Lloyds said the first claim period ended when the second national lockdown was 
implemented on 5 November because the lockdown amounted to a new incident under the 
policy. Therefore, any losses after 5 November would need to be considered as a new claim. 
Lloyds said B wasnt covered for this new incident/claim as the policy had renewed on 2 
October 2020, so cover under the previous policy was no longer in force.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, B brought its complaint to our service. It said its staff hadnt
been able to return to the office prior to the second lockdown and its claim should have been
paid until at least 23 March 2021. B told us about the considerable impact the losses were
having on its business.
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought
Lloyds decision to treat each lockdown as a separate cause of loss was reasonable and in
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
B asked for an ombudsmans decision as it didnt think Lloyds decision to treat the claim in
this way was consistent with the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 November 2022 where I explained 
why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and resulting Government actions have had a
considerable impact on Bs business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill
explain why.
Bs policy, which was in force between 2 October 2019 and 1 October 2020, has a maximum
indemnity period of 12 months. In this decision I am only considering Lloyds actions with
regard to the maximum indemnity period under the policy which commenced in October
2019 and not whether the new policy would cover any separate claim from 5 November
2020.
Lloyds paid Bs claim under the following clause within the policy which covers loss resulting
from business interruption or interference as a result of:
contagious or infectious human disease (excluding acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (Aids) or an Aids related condition), an outbreak of which a
competent public authority has stipulated will be notified to them, manifested by
any person whilst at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it;

will be deemed to be an incident, provided that our liability under this extension
for each claim will not exceed the sum insured stated for this sub section in the
schedule or £100,000 whichever is the less.
The policy provides for an indemnity period, which is defined as The period beginning with
the occurrence of the incident and ending not later than the maximum indemnity period
thereafter during which the results of the business will be affected because of the incident.
The maximum indemnity period is stated as being 12 months.
Ive started by considering what the insured incident is under this wording. Having done so, I
think the incident is a notifiable contagious or infectious human disease (in this case Covid-
19) manifested by any person either at the insured premises or within a 25 mile radius of it
which causes interruption or interference to Bs business.
It's not in dispute that there was an incident in March 2020 which caused B a loss  i.e. that
Covid-19 manifested in at least one person at Bs premises or within a 25 mile radius, and
that this manifestation was a contributing cause to the Governments restrictions which
caused B loss.
So Ive gone on to consider whether the losses sustained by B throughout the maximum
indemnity period are as a result of that one incident.
Having done so, I dont think the losses were as a result of this one incident because I think
that the cause of Bs loss in March 2020 was different to the cause of the loss which
occurred from November 2020.
I say that because the policy covers business interruption as a result of a person manifesting
Covid-19, it doesnt cover Covid-19 in general. It appears to me that Bs losses which
commenced in March 2020 were caused principally by the Governments restrictions in
response to manifestations of Covid-19 around that time. However, the Government
restrictions were reviewed and changed over time and, given that the March restrictions had
been eased, I dont think that the Government would have introduced new restrictions if it
wasnt for new manifestations of Covid-19 which had caused a new threat. I think that by
November 2020 the results of Bs business had ceased to be affected by the cases of Covid-
19 which led to the March restrictions and were instead affected by new cases of Covid-19.And I dont think Bs is covered under the policy being considered here for later 
manifestations (which led to restrictions) after the policy had ended.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the
following judgments are helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company
Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate),
Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various
Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE). Thats
because, one of the issues considered by the Court was whether losses sustained beyond
the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was
in force.
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court
said (at paragraph 209):
[The Government] responses [to the lockdowns in November 2020 and January
2021] were not equally caused by the cases before the end of the Period of
Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by more recent cases, and the
threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure in question.
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all
of the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said:
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-
19, whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental
actions and public response at any given time; (2) the fact that the cases of the
disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused the later cases of the
disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the cases of
the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of 
governmental measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and 
(3) the death blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable.
In Greggs, the Court said at paragraph 39:
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been
only one period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of
interruption or interference with Greggs business changed over time between the
first cases of Covid-19 and the end of the Indemnity Period
Therefore, while an incident of Covid-19 at the insured premises or within a 25 mile radius of
it was a contributing cause to the March restrictions which caused B to suffer loss, this same
incident was not a contributing cause to the November restrictions which caused B to suffer
further loss.
I have considered Bs point that its staff hadnt returned to work between March and
November. However, I dont think that makes a difference because the interruption or
interference to Bs business beyond November 2020 wasnt caused by the same incident.
I have also considered whether a separate manifestation within the period of the policy
caused B to suffer loss from November 2020 onwards, but I dont believe it did. The court did
accept that cases within the policy period would impact the Governments decision making
for a short time afterwards, but only for a limited period. At paragraph 59 of VE it said:I consider that it can be said that cases which had occurred within the Period of
Insurance were at least an equal proximate cause of the action announced by
the Prime Minister and thus of any interruption or interference which arose from
the system of tiers introduced on 14 October 2020 by the sets of Health
Protection (Coronavirus, Local COVID-19 Alert Level) Regulations of that date. I
would not, however accept that when, on 29 October 2020, it was announced
that more areas should be moved into Tier 2, the cases within the Period of
Insurance were an equally effective cause. By that stage, in my judgment, it was
cases occurring since the Period of Insurance which were more effective; and a
fortiori this was the case in relation to the second lockdown, which came into
force on 5 November 2020.
Therefore, while its possible that cases of Covid-19 which manifested while Bs policy was
in force impacted the Government for a couple of weeks, I dont think such cases impacted
the Governments decision to implement a lockdown on 5 November 2020.
I believe that the judgments referred to above support my view that Bs losses from 
November 2020 werent caused by an incident within the period of the policy. And
therefore I dont intend to require Lloyds to pay for Bs losses beyond 4 November
2020.
I recognise this isnt the outcome B was hoping for, given the impact of the pandemic on its
business but, having considered things very carefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision by the required date, but B disagreed with 
the outcome I reached and provided further comments. Due to the informal nature of our 
service, Im not going to repeat every point and have instead summarised them below.
B asked me to point out where in the policy it says that a new incident means that a 
claim is limited until that new incident occurs.
B said standard revenue is defined in the policy as The revenue during that period in 
the 12 months before the date of the incident which corresponds with the indemnity 
period. We will adjust the figures as necessary to provide for the trends or special 
circumstances affecting the business before or after the incident or which would have 
affected the business had the incident not occurred
B accepted that the policy ended in October but said the 12 month indemnity period 
was still in force. 
B asked why the investigator had reached the outcome she had.
B said there is nothing in the policy which says that a new incident will shorten the 
indemnity available from the first incident. 
B said there was little change in UK commerce since the first incident and the area 
had remained in tiers until the second lockdown.
B asked whether my finding on new manifestations of Covid-19 meant that a new 
variant is a new incident and, if so, where in the policy this is stated. 
B said its turnover figures for the year support its position that it had ongoing losses, 
and the original Covid-19 was still active in March 2021.
B said the policy does not state that B isnt covered for later manifestations of Covid-
19. 
B said that, given that the policy wordings in Stonegate, VE and Greggs are likely 
different to Bs, quoting from these judgments is not in keeping with Bs policy. 
B said tiers are not mentioned in the policy, and neither is it that a new variant 
amounts to a new incident.
B said that the losses stemmed from the same pandemic and the policy does not say 
that the indemnity period can be reduced due to reduced restrictions. Bs loss adjusters state that B experienced losses until March 2021. Therefore, its 
not reasonable to say that a separate manifestation of Covid-19 within the policy 
period caused its ongoing losses. 
B asked whether moving between tiers meant it is a different pandemic. 
B said that incidents and lockdown arent mentioned in the policy and its clear that 
the policy provides a 12 month indemnity for a pandemic.  
B continues to believe that its claim should be paid for the full 12 month indemnity 
period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B has made a number of detailed points. While Im not going to address each one 
individually in this decision, I would like to reassure B that I have considered them all 
carefully. In this decision I am going to focus on what I consider to be the central issues to 
this complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service and my role. 
B has queried where in its policy it specifically refers to certain points such as tiers, new 
variants and that B isnt covered for later manifestations of Covid-19. The policy doesnt 
specifically mention Covid-19, tiers, variants or some of the other wording which B would like 
me to identify. This is likely because Covid-19 was not in existence when the policy was 
drafted. However, it is necessary for me to consider how the wording which is within Bs 
policy applies to the circumstances of its claim.
I will set out the relevant parts of the policy for ease of reference. The policy covers loss 
resulting from business interruption or interference as a result of:
contagious or infectious human disease (excluding acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (Aids) or an Aids related condition), an outbreak of which a
competent public authority has stipulated will be notified to them, manifested by
any person whilst at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it;

will be deemed to be an incident, provided that our liability under this extension
for each claim will not exceed the sum insured stated for this sub section in the
schedule or £100,000 whichever is the less.
The indemnity period is defined as The period beginning with the occurrence of the incident 
and ending not later than the maximum indemnity period thereafter during which the results 
of the business will be affected because of the incident.
The word incident is therefore used both within the clause itself and within the definition of 
the indemnity period. I believe that the incident is the business interruption or interference 
as a result of a contagious or infectious human disease, an outbreak of which a competent 
public authority has stipulated should be notified to them, manifested by any person while at 
the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The definition of the indemnity period sets out 
that the indemnity period begins with the occurrence of this incident and ends no later than 
the maximum indemnity period (in this case 12 months) during which the results of the 
business shall be affected because of the incident. So I do think the policy mentions an 
incident and therefore its relevant to my decision. 
I appreciate Bs point that there has been an ongoing pandemic and B thinks its covered for 
a pandemic. However, the policy doesnt say that it provides cover for a pandemic in 
general. The policy sets out that it provides cover for loss as a result of notifiable disease manifested by any person while at the premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The 
maximum indemnity period is 12 months, but B would only receive payment for all of its 
losses during the 12 months if they were all caused by the manifestations of the disease that 
caused the loss which commenced in March 2020. And for the reasons Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think that was the case.
Lloyds continued to pay Bs claim for losses up to 4 November 2020. This indicates to me 
that Lloyds was satisfied that where the restrictions changed, those restrictions were as a 
result of manifestations of Covid-19 within the policy period (ie up to 1 October 2020) and 
therefore that qualifying incidents had caused Bs losses. However, Lloyds thought that it 
was new manifestations of Covid-19 which occurred after Bs policy had lapsed which led to 
Bs losses from 5 November 2020. I recognise that B continued to experience losses 
throughout the 12 months. However, I remain of the view that Lloyds actions were 
reasonable because, as set out in my provisional decision, I dont believe that Bs losses 
throughout the 12 months from March 2020 were all caused by the same manifestations of 
Covid-19. 
I think it would be helpful for me to be clear that I am not making the finding that a new 
incident of Covid-19 shortened the first indemnity period. I recognise that by November 2020 
Bs turnover might not have returned to pre-March 2020 levels and B believes that this was 
as an ongoing result of restrictions which had commenced in March 2020. However, I 
believe the different restrictions over time were in consequence to different incidents of 
Covid-19 shortly prior to that time and, therefore, I think that the losses B experienced from 5 
November 2020 onwards were no longer from the same manifestations of Covid-19 that 
caused its losses between March and November. 
It might also be helpful for me to clarify that I am not making a finding that it is the new 
variant of Covid-19 which amounted to a new incident. Rather, that it is later manifestations 
which were the new incident. 
I understand that B thinks the judgments I have referred to arent relevant if the wording 
within its policy is different to those considered by the courts. However, even though the 
polices arent exactly the same, I believe that the comments within the judgments are 
relevant to Bs complaint as one of the issues the courts considered was whether losses 
sustained beyond the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 
when the policy was in force. And that is what I have needed to consider in this complaint. 
Therefore, I remain of the opinion that the judgments support my view that Lloyds acted 
fairly in declining to pay for Bs losses from 5 November 2020. 
B has referred to the policy definition for standard revenue which is The revenue during 
that period in the 12 months before the date of the incident which corresponds with the 
indemnity period. We will adjust the figures as necessary to provide for the trends or special 
circumstances affecting the business before or after the incident or which would have 
affected the business had the incident not occurred
I think this wording sets out the way the settlement will be calculated  ie by comparing the 
revenue to that of the previous 12 months and then taking account of any trends or special 
circumstances affecting the business, rather than the relevant period of loss. So, as this sets 
out how Lloyds will calculate the settlement rather than how long the indemnity period lasts, 
I dont think this definition makes a difference to the outcome of my decision. 
B has also queried the investigators findings and asked why she reached the outcome she 
did. However, I dont intend to comment on that as the investigators findings havent had an 
impact on the outcome of Bs complaint given that B requested an Ombudsmans decision 
and I have reviewed the case afresh. I realise this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered things very carefully, 
I remain of the opinion that Lloyds acted reasonably by settling Bs claim in the way that 
they did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman