DRN-3962328
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Acasta European Insurance Company Limiteds (Acasta) handling of a 
claim he made under his furniture warranty.
What happened
Mr R has a five-year extended warranty for his furniture underwritten by Acasta. In 
June 2022 Mr R reported staining to his sofa to Acastas claim handling agent. An inspection 
was carried out and the technician attempted to clean the sofa. However, Mr R reported to 
Acasta the following day that this hadnt resolved the staining.
Two cushion covers were ordered by Acasta. On receipt, Mr R was unhappy that only two 
covers had been received. He said all covers needed to be replaced as the cleaning had 
made the staining worse  and to all areas of the sofa. 
Acasta carried out a further inspection, they said the stains were due to a build up over time 
rather than a one off event, and they also said the claim shouldve been declined from the 
outset, rather than a clean attempted or replacement covers ordered. 
Mr R complained that the original technician had made the staining worse. He was also 
unhappy that a visit from a technician didnt go ahead when it was supposed to.
Ultimately Acasta accepted the service they had provided couldve been better. But they said 
the claim should never have been accepted in the first place, and as it wasnt declined, two 
seat covers had been provided which shouldnt have been. Theyd also paid £40 
compensation for an appointment which didnt go ahead as planned. They also didnt agree 
the clean had made things worse. Therefore, whilst Acasta accepted things had gone wrong, 
they said the two seat covers and the £40 was appropriate compensation. Mr R didnt agree 
and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said the claim 
should always have been declined but wasnt, so Mr R had received cushion covers in error, 
and she wasnt persuaded the cleaning by the technician had made things worse as alleged 
by Mr R. Therefore, she didnt recommend Acasta do anything further as she was of the 
view the two seat covers and £40 compensation already paid was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where Ive referred to Acasta, Im also referring to their appointed agents who handled the 
claim and carried out visits on their behalf. Where Ive referred to Mr R - who is the 
policyholder - this also includes any actions and communication by anyone who was acting 
on his behalf.
As both parties are already aware what happened throughout, I dont intend to comment on 
each event, issue or communication between the parties individually. Instead, Ill mention 
some of the key points. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead this reflects 
the informal nature of this service and my role within in. But Id like to reassure both parties 
that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
The claim reported in June 2022 was for staining build-up to most of the seating and back 
cushions suspected to be from black jeans.
Acasta arranged for a technician to attend who attempted to clean the sofa. But Mr R 
reported to Acasta the following day that this was unsuccessful. 
However, Acasta say there was an error made at this stage in the claim. They say they 
should never have attempted to clean the sofa as the claim should have been declined from 
the outset. Acasta have referred to the following in the policy terms:
WHAT IS NOT COVERED
Any claim for or resulting from the following will not be valid:
.
7 The gradual accumulation of stain or dye transfer or by accumulated multiple stains 
or by unidentifiable stain(s);
Considering the claim was reported as a build-up of stains to most the cushions, I dont think 
it wouldve been unreasonable for Acasta to decline the claim on this basis as an 
accumulation of staining over time is excluded. 
The later technician reports also concluded a build-up of staining. And, Ive not been 
provided with anything that demonstrates the stains were the result of a one-off incident - 
which is what the policy covers. Therefore, it wouldnt have been unreasonable for the claim 
to have been declined by Acasta from the outset on this basis.
However, thats not what happened here. Instead, the technician incorrectly attempted to 
clean the sofa. The following day, Mr R reported that the technician hadnt resolved the 
staining issue.
Acasta made a mistake again here, on the basis of the following from that technician:
I HAVE CLEANED THE COVERS AND REMOVED ALL MARKS. ON TWO OF THE 
COVERS THERE APPEARS TO BE PILE CRUSH WHEN PUSHING THE PILE 
BACK AND FORTH THE MARKS DISAPPEAR
Acasta interpreted this as the technician had caused the pile crush. However, that was an 
observation of the damage he identified, rather than that which he caused. But due to 
Acastas misinterpretation, two new seat covers were then ordered. This shouldnt have 
happened either.
The two new seat covers were received by Mr R. He was unhappy as he said all should be 
replaced and that the technician had made things worse during the clean attempt. Acasta 
said that to be able to see if they had caused the damage, or alternatively if it was covered 
under the policy (and consequently whether to order new parts), they would need to carry 
out a further visit and inspection.A technician attended to inspect the furniture, and they concluded the staining had been 
caused over time due to daily use, which is excluded under the policy terms. They also 
confirmed the claim should have been declined from the outset, the previous technician 
shouldnt have attempted to clean the sofa, and two covers shouldnt have been ordered.
However, the technician was also unable to establish the previous technician had caused 
further staining or damage whilst attempting to clean the furniture. Acasta also reviewed the 
before and after images of the furniture but werent able to identify they had caused further 
issues or had made things worse either. Consequently, Acasta declined to do anything 
further.
As a result of the claim being incorrectly accepted, two cushion covers were sent which 
should never have been. And Acasta also gave £40 compensation during the claim when an 
appointment didnt go ahead as it shouldve and for delays and overall service. And it isnt 
disputed things went wrong, but equally the claim shouldnt have been accepted in the first 
place. Regardless of this, if Acasta had made things worse, theyd need to put that right.
However, Ive seen the images of the sofa before and after the clean was incorrectly carried 
out by Acasta. Having done so, I dont think its been shown, on balance, that this made 
things worse. And as its also not covered under the policy either, Im not going to direct 
Acasta to replace the remaining covers. 
Mr R has received two cushion covers which he shouldnt have, and £40 compensation for 
Acastas handling of things. Overall, Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for what went wrong, consequently Im not going to direct Acasta to do 
anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman