DRN-4295770
The complaint
Mr H complains about the affordability of a hire purchase agreement provided by Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr H said it himself. 
What happened
Mr H acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Moneybarn in May 2021. 
The agreement ran for 60 months, Mr H was required to make monthly payments of 
£502.96. 
In February 2023 Mr H complained to Moneybarn. In summary he said Moneybarn didnt 
complete adequate affordability checks before agreeing to lend to him. He said, if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it had carried out several different checks before agreeing to 
lend which included: 
- a full credit search through a credit reference agency which provided details of Mr Hs 
borrowing at the time of taking out the agreement as well as his repayment history, 
including arrears and defaults.
- an independent verification of Mr Hs declared monthly income which it averaged at 
£2679 based on 8 weeks pay slips provided by him.
- estimating Mr Hs non-discretionary expenditure.   
Moneybarn said from the above checks it was able to establish: 
- Mr Hs existing borrowing was within its lending criteria.
- although Mr M had a default registered against his name and a county court 
judgement, both were recorded 10 months prior to it agreeing the lending. 
- Mr H could afford the monthly repayment of £502.96.
Mr H remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld because she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to suggest the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr H.
Mr H didnt agree and said Moneybarn should have done more to establish his financial 
situation at the time. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why Ive decided Moneybarn dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Moneybarn to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
a. If it did, was the decision to then lend to Mr H fair?
b. If it didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr H about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check in order to understand how Mr H had managed his existing and previous finance 
arrangements.  It also verified Mr Hs income via payslips, confirmed his accommodation 
type and his employment. It used statistical data to estimate his likely expenditure on rent, 
utilities and council tax. 
Moneybarn also considered what would have been left over to cover other expenditure and 
made an allowance of around £720. It noted that even after the estimated expenses had 
been taken into account, Mr H would have had enough disposable income to afford monthly 
repayments up to £502.96.
Having said that, I dont think the checks were proportionate. Moneybarn hasnt provided a 
copy of the credit check it completed with one of the credit reference agencies. But given the 
amount of the monthly repayments, term of the finance and the outstanding balances the 
credit check revealed, Moneybarn couldve been more specific in asking Mr H about his 
monthly expenditure to assess his circumstances at the time, rather than relying on 
statistical data. So, I find Moneybarn didnt complete proportionate checks in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr H could sustainably repay 
the borrowing? Ive thought about whether Moneybarn would still have chosen to lend money to Mr H if it 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
I cant be certain what evidence Moneybarn would have asked Mr H to provide or what 
questions it would have asked him. But Mr H has provided a breakdown of his monthly 
income and expenditure from the time of the agreement whereby his outgoings amount to 
around £1900, this included the cost of repaying the lending. Given what hes told us, I think 
Mr H has made a reasonable estimate of his monthly finances. This doesnt necessarily 
convey on the bank statements he has provided but Mr H has estimated his monthly 
expenditure higher to what Moneybarn relied on and left a disposable income of around 
£745. So, I dont find that I can say had further checks taken place that the agreement would 
have been found to be unaffordable.
Based on the information Ive outlined above I cant fairly say Moneybarn made an unfair 
lending decision. 
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Whilst Ive carefully thought about everything Mr H has told us, Im afraid it doesnt affect my 
findings. I dont think there is enough evidence or information to suggest the agreement was 
unaffordable for Mr H, or that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him in any 
other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman