DRN-4337593
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that PayrNet Limited loaded an adverse fraud marker against his name.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr M held an account with Rewire, an agent of PayrNet. In August 2022, PayrNet received 
notification from a third-party bank that Mr Ms account was the confirmed beneficiary of 
fraudulent funds.
PayrNet looked into the report and could see the funds enter Mr Ms account and were then 
immediately withdrawn to a cryptocurrency platform. As a result, Mr Ms account was closed, 
and it loaded an adverse fraud marker against Mr Ms name on the Cifas database.
Mr M discovered the marker had been placed after his banking facilities with another 
provider were withdrawn. He made a complaint to PayrNet but says he didnt receive a 
response. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
Mr M told our service that at the time the account was closed, hed lost his mobile telephone 
device in the gym. He reported it to staff at the gym, tracked the device on an application 
and sent a message to it asking the finder to return it.
Several weeks later, Mr M says his device was returned to staff at the gym and he thinks 
that a third-party had used it to access his account while it was not in his possession.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded PayrNet 
hadnt loaded the marker fairly and in line with Cifas guidance. They recommended PayrNet 
remove the marker and pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
PayrNet disagreed. It argued that there were several inconsistencies in Mr Ms testimony, 
provided evidence of bad character and it defended its position on the marker being loaded 
fairly.
As PayrNet disagreed with the Investigators opinion and recommendations, the matter was 
passed to me for a decision.
On 25 August 2023 I issued provisional findings to both parties setting out what I was 
minded to conclude on the complaint. The provisional decision was as follows:
One of the relevant considerations here are set out by Cifas: the fraud marker database 
controller. In its Handbookwhich members must adhere to when loading markersit sets 
out the burden of proof the member must meet. The relevant standards applicable to this 
complaint are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous. 
These standards mean that PayrNet must have more than mere suspicion when loading a 
marker against a persons name. It must have strong evidence to support that a financial 
crime has been committed or attempted and that the person to whom they are loading the 
marker against is more than likely to have had witting involvement. 
Im satisfied that the first of the above two pillars have been evidenced here. While it has 
taken PayrNet an unacceptable amount of time to provide our service with evidence relating 
to this case, it has eventually provided us with a report from a third-party bank supporting the 
fact that Mr Ms account received funds from a confirmed fraud. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
PayrNet has demonstrated that there are reasonable grounds for it to believe a fraud has 
been committed. 
Moving onto the second of the above two standards. PayrNet is a member of Cifas and 
should be aware of the rules that Cifas has set out when loading information to its database.
In June 2020, Cifas set out guidance for its members when dealing with potential money 
mulesa term used for account holders that launder the proceeds of crime through their 
account(s). Within this guidance, Cifas placed certain requirements on its members that 
should be undertaken before a loading is added. Among other things, the main requirement 
is that a member contacts its customerby more than one methodto give them an 
opportunity to explain the activity. This is to ensure vulnerable customers, or those that have 
been a victim of fraud themselves, arent unfairly loaded to the database. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, I have been provided with no evidence to show that 
PayrNet made any attempt to contact Mr M and give him an opportunity to explain the 
activity. Instead, Mr Ms account was closed and the Cifas marker loaded. 
While PayrNet has clearly breached these requirements here, I must consider the 
information I do have available, which includes Mr Ms own testimony. 
Mr M has told our service that he believes a third-party took control of his account after hed 
lost his device in a gym. He says that its likely that the person who took his device managed 
to guess his PIN that allowed access to it, as it was easy to guess. 
Ive considered Mr Ms testimony carefully but am minded to agree with the points made by 
PayrNet regarding its plausibility. 
Mr Ms claim that hed lost his device isnt supported by any evidence. He didnt report the 
theft to the police, despite it being lost for several weeks, and there is no way our service 
can verify his claims that hed reported it to members of staff at the gym. Mr M doesnt 
appear to have made any attempt to ask staff to investigate the theft or have CCTV cameras 
reviewed at the venue. 
Mr M has also claimed that he was tracking the device for the weeks it was missing yet he 
did nothing with this information. He didnt ask police to attend the location where the device 
was shown. Nor did he attempt to get it back himself. 
Furthermore, I find Mr Ms suggestion that the third-party managed to guess his PIN, as it 
was simply his date of birth, to be unpersuasive. Had Mr M left his device on one of the 
machines within the gym, its likely it would have been taken by an opportunistic thief rather 
than a person known to him. Mr M has also made no claim or suggestion that anything other than his device was stolen, such as a wallet containing identity documents. Therefore, its 
unlikely that an opportunistic thief would have known his date of birth, or indeed that it was 
even Mr Ms device. I therefore find it unlikely they would have been able to guess his date 
of birth and subsequently his PIN. 
As well as the above, I find it unlikely a third-party who stole Mr Ms device and used it to 
carry out fraudulent activity would have then gone to the effort of returning it to the gym 
considering the value of most modern-day smart devices. 
My intention here is not to accuse Mr M of dishonesty or implicate him in the fraudulent 
activity that took place; that is not my role. Im merely making an assessment on whether 
PayrNet has sufficient evidence to support the loading in line with guidance set out by Cifas. 
And when considering the above points Ive made, I find it does. As such, I wont be asking it 
to remove the marker applied against Mr M.
Both parties were provided until 8 September 2023 to provide any further comment or 
evidence before reaching my final decision.
PayrNet responded stating it had nothing further to add. But Mr M responded stating he 
disagreed with the provisional findings and provided further comment. In summary, he 
argued:
He didnt pursue the phone because he has strict parents.
His name was shown on the wallpaper of his device. He believes a search online 
would have revealed his date of birth.
The geographical location of the gym where the phone was lost would have revealed 
the area in which he lived, again giving the thief an opportunity to find him online.
Some of the people that attend the gym follow him on social media channels.
Access to the banking app for his account isnt protected and can be signed into 
automatically.
Now that both parties have responded to my provisional findings, Im in a position to reach 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Mr Ms further submissions, but this hasnt persuaded me to 
change the outcome Ive indicated in my provisional findings.
Mr M has said that he didnt contact the police, nor pursue the location of his device, as he 
has strict parents. However, I fail to understand why this would have prevented Mr M from 
taking action.
Im not persuaded that any action Mr M would have taken to recover his phone would have 
required the involvement of his parents. I also fail to see how Mr M would have been able 
hide the fact that hed lost his phone from his parents as he wouldnt have been contactable 
until either his phone was returned several weeks later, or a new SIM card had arrived.
Mr M has also provided several ways in which the opportunistic thief may have managed to 
get into his phone using his PIN.
Firstly, Im not persuaded that Mr Ms name being on the wallpaper of his device would have been sufficient for a thief to obtain his PIN. The suggestions that Mr M has made are on the 
presumption that the thief knew or suspected that the PIN to his device was his date of birth. 
I fail to see how a third-party unknown to Mr M would have known this.
Secondly, from a cursory search online, Ive seen a number of people on social media 
platforms bearing the same name as Mr M. I see no way in which a person who merely had 
access to Mr Ms locked phone would know which to investigate.
Ive also checked the third-party website and social media platform Mr M has suggested the 
thief likely would have been able to obtain his date of birth from, but both only show a partial 
date of birth. 
For the above reasons, I find it unlikely that a thief would have been able to access Mr Ms 
phone by guessing his PIN was his date of birth. And even if I were to accept that a third-
party knew Mr Ms PIN would be his date of birth, Im not persuaded that they would have 
been able to find it online.
I also remain unpersuaded that an individual that stole Mr Ms phone and then used it for 
fraudulent activity would then return the device to the location they stole it from rather than 
sell it for financial gain.
Mr M has further argued that the banking application that accessed his account wasnt 
security protected and Ive failed to include this information in my provisional findings. I was 
aware of this when writing my provisional decision. However, I cannot see any relevance in 
referring to this where I see no reasonable explanation as to how a third-party would have 
accessed Mr Ms device to open the banking application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman