DRN-3302627
The complaint
Mrs W says that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) misled her about the 
terms of a hire purchase agreement and, in particular, what would happen at the end of its 
three-year term. She has been represented by Mr W. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs W entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used 
car. As well as recording details of the car, the agreement set out the following terms:
The cash price was £21,229.00.
There was an advance payment of £5,884.00 leaving a balance of £15,415.00 credit. 
The advance payment was due on Mrs W signing the agreement. She would then make 
35 monthly repayments of £244.35, followed by a final payment of £9,547.50 payable 
35 months after the first repayment.
Mrs W had the right to end the agreement. If she did that, VWFS would be entitled to 
the return of the car. As long as Mrs W had paid at least of the total due, she would not 
have to pay any more.  
The total amount payable was £23,993.75, including an Option to Purchase fee.
Mrs W could exercise an option to purchase by giving notice and paying all sums due 
under the agreement. 
Mrs W and VWFS signed the agreement on 6 November 2019. 
Around 18 months later Mrs W said that the dealership which supplied the car had misled 
her about the terms of the agreement. Mr W said that the dealership had said that, at the 
end of the three-year term, Mrs W would be able to return the car and take out a new 
agreement for a similar car for a similar monthly outlay, without making the final payment of 
over £9,500. This, he said, was not true, because the advance payment was made by part-
exchanging their previous car. That reduced the monthly payments due under this 
agreement, but it would not be possible to make a similar advance payment in the future.  
In support of his argument, Mr W sent a copy of a presentation sheet dated 30 October 2019 
 about a week before the agreement was signed. That set out the monthly payments which 
Mrs W would need to pay under a hire purchase agreement over various terms. For a 36-
month term, the monthly payment would be £535.24, more than double Mrs Ws payment. It 
also noted the monthly payment which would be due under a Solutions plan offered by 
VWFS; the figures under that section were consistent with the agreement that Mrs W signed. 
A handwritten note refers to buying the car or giving it back. 
Mr W says that, having reviewed the agreement, he does not believe that it will be possible 
for Mrs W to hand the car back and enter into a new agreement on similar terms. 
Our investigator considered what had happened but did not consider that the dealership or 
VWFS had provided Mrs W with misleading information about the November 2019 
agreement. He did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr W, on behalf of Mrs W, did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W also complained about the quality of the car. That is however the subject of a 
separate complaint and I make no comment on it here. 
Her complaint here is that the dealership misled her about the November 2019 agreement 
and, in particular, what her options would be at the end of it. In making statements about the 
agreement and about the car, the dealership was to be treated as VWFSs agent; that is, it 
was making statements on behalf of VWFS. If those statements were incorrect or 
misleading, VWFS is liable in the same way as if it had made them itself. 
If I conclude that VWFS or the dealership on its behalf made misleading statements about 
the agreement, I must go on to consider what Mrs W would have done had those statements 
not been made. 
The agreement in this case was put into writing in the form required by the relevant 
regulations. Those regulations are intended to ensure that consumer credit agreements are 
clear and fair. Where discussions about contractual terms are reduced to writing in this way, 
I would generally want to see very persuasive evidence that a customer was told something 
different about the terms that were agreed before concluding that they were misled. In my 
view, the main terms of the hire purchase agreement set out clearly what Mrs Ws 
obligations were in terms of the advance payment, the monthly payments and the final 
payment required to buy the car. They were also consistent with the presentation sheet. I am 
not persuaded that Mrs W was misled about the terms of the agreement. 
Mr W says however that he and Mrs W were told that, at the end of the agreement, Mrs W 
would be able to hand the car back and take a similar car at a similar monthly payment. I 
think it quite likely that the dealership did give Mr and Mrs W some reassurance about what 
might happen at the end of the agreement, but I dont believe it means that the position was 
misrepresented or that it would be fair to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
The presentation sheet indicates that Mrs Ws hire purchase agreement was taken out under 
a Solutions plan. I understand that plan to be a personal contract plan. That is a term 
generally used to describe a form of hire purchase arrangement where the customer makes 
lower monthly payments but in return has to make a higher final payment if they want to 
keep the goods. They are generally sold as being suitable for customers who do not expect 
to buy the car at the end of a hire purchase term and as providing more flexibility than a 
traditional hire purchase arrangement. 
I think it likely that this was explained to Mr and Mrs W. In return for lower monthly 
payments, Mrs W would have to make a higher balloon payment if she wanted to keep the 
car. But, if she did not want to do that, she had other options  including taking out a new 
finance agreement with similar flexibility. I am not persuaded however that any guarantees 
or firm indications were given about what the terms of any future agreement might be. That 
would of course depend on many unknown variables  including what she might be able to afford, the make and model of car, interest rates, the general cost of cars, the term of any 
new agreement and the amount of any advance payment and final payment. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mrs W was given misleading information or that 
it would be fair to uphold her complaint. I do not therefore require Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman