DRN-3479759
The complaint
Mr and Ms F complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund money 
they transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
The investigator has set out the background to this complaint at great length, so I wont 
repeat it all here. Briefly, Ms F was contacted out of the blue by someone claiming that she 
still held shares in a company which had been bought out over a decade before by a U.S. 
firm. The caller claimed that someone was looking to purchase the shares in order to control 
51% of the company.
Over the following few months Mr and Ms F spoke to several people (claiming to represent 
various intermediaries) and a number of requests for money followed. Initially they had to 
pay £5,170 for a non-disclosure agreement and insurance, then £63,000 to buy warrants 
attached to the shares, then £55,977 made over two payments for U.S. taxes. Mr and Ms F 
doubted the legitimacy of the request to pay taxes and were only persuaded to part with the 
funds after Mr F had a lengthy phone conversation with the callers. First Direct spoke to Mr 
and Ms F twice before releasing the second payment and once before releasing the third 
payment.
When a final request for money followed  this time for bank charges and legal fees, Mr and 
Ms F knew theyd been the victim of a scam and reported the matter to First Direct. They 
didnt think the bank had done enough to question them during the three conversations that 
had taken place before the payments were released.
First Direct, in response to Mr and Ms Fs complaint, said that as the payments they made 
were international, they couldnt be considered under the CRM Code that Mr and Ms F had 
referred to. It also said that it had done everything it could to try and prevent the scam but 
that Mr and Ms F were determined to go ahead and appeared knowledgeable about the 
activity they were undertaking. It also said that all it could do was to try and recover the 
payments from the banks which received them (attempts that were ultimately unsuccessful).
Mr and Ms F referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld it in part. 
They thought that First Direct hadnt done enough to question the payments Mr and Ms F 
made and, had it made further enquiries, given a better warning and explained the practical 
steps they could take to check the legitimacy of the investment, the loss to Mr and Ms F 
would have been prevented.
However, they also thought Mr and Ms F had a role to play in what happened, so they 
recommended that First Direct pay Mr and Ms F 50% of the second, third and fourth 
payments, as well as £100 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
Mr and Ms F agreed to the investigators view. First Direct didnt agree, in summary it said:
- It didnt think any intervention would have made a difference to Mr and Ms Fs 
decision to go ahead with the payments. 
- It was unreasonable for Ms F to believe that she held shares in the company without 
checking her own records or asking for proof from the fraudster.
- Ms F failed to carry out basic checks and the offer made by the fraudster was too 
good to be true, so Mr and Ms F should bear the full loss.
- Mr and Ms F had far more knowledge of warrants than First Directs advisor. 
- The fact Ms F said she had worked for the company in which it was claimed she held 
shares and Mr F said that he was an ex-finance director were powerful factors in 
convincing the advisor that they were financially sophisticated customers. 
- Mr and Ms F spoke confidently about the scheme and gave plausible answers to the 
questions asked  there was no hint that Ms F was actually unsure that she held the 
shares at all. 
- The responses from Mr and Ms F impeded the banks ability to give an effective 
warning.
- It rejected the suggestion that the fact Mr and Ms F had been asked to sign a non-
disclosure agreement should have been a red flag to its advisor.  
Despite further clarifications from our investigator, no agreement could be reached. So, the 
case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Ms F authorised these transactions and that means that 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of their account they are 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider First 
Direct should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
It is undisputed that First Direct did find the activity, from the second payment onwards, to be 
unusual. Thats what prompted it to hold the payment of £63,000 until it could speak to Mr F. 
Mr and Ms F have accepted that the intervention shouldnt have taken place any earlier but, 
for completeness, I agree that the first payment to the fraudsters wasnt sufficiently out of 
character or unusual that First Direct should have questioned it. Mr and Ms Fs account 
statements show similarly sized payments in the months preceding the scam, so that 
payment didnt particularly stand out. The key question in this case is whether First Direct did enough during the two calls that 
followed and, if theyd done more, whether this would have prevented Mr and Ms Fs loss.
Much has been made by First Direct of the apparent financial sophistication of Mr and Ms F 
and the scam itself. But, at its core, this was a simple scam. The most obvious feature 
(which First Direct did pick up on to a limited extent) was that Mr and Ms F were paying 
money in order to receive money back. In fact, by the time of the £63,000 payment, they had 
already done this and were complying with a second request for more money. That fact was 
not revealed during the call, but neither did First Direct ask about the purpose of the first 
payment.
 
There were also other reasons to be concerned. Underneath the apparent financial 
complexity, there was another well-known feature of investment scams  the fraudsters 
claimed to already have a buyer for Ms Fs shares  someone that would buy them at an 
inflated price (a price which First Direct believe was too good to be true). While the specific 
price isnt mentioned by Mr F  he does mention that there is an offer to purchase the shares 
at a significant mark-up, which I think ought to have been enough for First Direct to be 
concerned. This is another common tactic employed by investment fraudsters and, again, 
something the bank should have been alive to. I appreciate that this fact was shrouded in a 
degree of plausibility  that Ms F already held the shares. But, Id expect First Direct to be 
able to pick up on these key features and ask targeted specific questions as a result 
But, on the whole, I dont think this happened. First Direct only obtained the name of the 
recipient, and doesnt establish who any of the other businesses involved are, including the 
name of the business that Ms F apparently held shares in. First Direct points to the 
implausibility of Ms F still holding shares in a company that had ceased to exist years before, 
but it was also in a position to identify this fact and didnt. It also doesnt question why the 
payment is going to a seemingly unrelated third country.
It asked whether Mr and Ms F had searched the company online and checked whether the 
company was registered, but without really explaining what was meant by these questions. 
Presumably the latter was designed to establish whether the company was registered with a 
professional or regulatory body somewhere  but the advisor didnt enquire as to how theyd 
been able to confirm the legitimacy of several companies based in two different countries.
First Direct also asked how the company had contacted Ms F. Again, this presumably was 
an attempt to establish whether Mr and Ms F had been cold-called (which they had), but 
when a vague answer was received, the advisor did not follow up to establish how they were 
first contacted or whether this contact was expected. 
Crucially, in my view, there were two calls before the £63,000 payment was released (and, it 
appears, a further review of all the information provided before the payment was released). 
Even accepting that the information provided by Mr and Ms F in the first call might have 
been somewhat, and to some extent reasonably, beyond the comprehension of the advisor, 
they had the opportunity to consult colleagues, reflect on the answers given and, in the 
follow up call, ask more targeted questions based on the previous conversation and the 
concerns that ought to have arisen from it. Largely that didnt happen  the second 
conversation involved more questions but, as noted, the questions were either too general 
or, when unclear or very short answers were given, the advisor simply moved on. 
I dont think First Direct did enough during the calls. Its questions were not specific nor 
targeted enough  particularly in relation to the checks that Mr and Ms F claimed to have 
carried out, which First Direct ought to have known were inadequate. For example, Mr and Ms F mention that the business they are dealing with have a website 
and that the number theyve been called on matches that which is listed on the website. I 
think comments of this nature illustrated, despite the claims of Mr and Ms F, that the checks 
they had done were not sufficient and, perhaps, that they didnt know what checks they 
ought to be doing. 
First Direct largely didnt give any advice about what effective checks Mr and Ms F should 
have done before making the payment. Neither, despite having identified the risk, did it really 
bring to life or provide a specific warning about what this kind of investment scam might look 
like. Instead it essentially assumed they knew what they should do to establish the 
legitimacy of the payee.
Had it elicited further information from Mr and Ms F  particularly around the names of the 
other businesses involved, then I think this would have given it serious cause for concern 
(despite the supposed non-disclosure agreement, the conversations dont suggest that Mr 
and Ms F wouldnt have revealed the names of the other businesses involved, if asked). 
Simple checks that the bank could have done while on the phone or between the calls would 
have shown that there was a warning about the intermediary involved, which was published 
on the FCA website in November 2020. A few simple internet searches would have also 
revealed that the contact details for another business apparently involved in the transaction 
didnt match that of the genuine website  a clear indication the business had been cloned. 
Even more concerning, the address of the transfer agent would have been revealed to be a 
shop in the third country. These are all searches that could have been conducted while (or 
after) speaking to Mr and Ms F, so I dont think it is an onerous suggestion that they should 
have been carried out, at least when the banks concerns had not been allayed following the 
first call. In the alternative, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for the bank to 
have declined to make the payment until it was satisfied that Mr and Ms F had made specific 
checks to ensure that they were dealing with a genuine company.
Had Mr and Ms F been confronted with this information or carried out those checks 
themselves, its difficult to see how they would have continued with the payments. So, I think 
First Direct did miss an opportunity to prevent the loss of the second payment onwards.
I accept this is a finely balanced matter and I recognise the difficult position the bank was in 
here. That position was not made any easier by Mr and Ms F who omitted crucial information 
that would have helped the bank identify the scam. Im not entirely convinced this was as a 
result of confusion about what the bank was asking and is likely to have been motivated by a 
desire to make this payment quickly.
Taking that into account, as well as the overall plausibility of the scam, I think that Mr and Ms 
F should bear some responsibility for what happened. I think a fair deduction is 50% here  
that takes into account both the role they had in what happened and the relative asymmetry 
between the expertise of the bank and Mr and Ms F. 
Im afraid that Ive found the scenario presented to Mr and Ms F to be simply implausible. Ms 
F doesnt appear to have done anything to check whether she actually held the shares and 
doesnt appear to question the sudden, unexpected contact. Neither did Mr and Ms F 
question the obvious red flags  the fact they hadnt been informed of the need for a second 
payment after making the first, the fact their money was going to a third country and the fact 
that the offer sounded a bit too good to be true. 
What is more, as Ive already set out, the answers they gave to First Direct were unhelpful, if 
not evasive. I would have expected Mr and Ms F to explain how surprised they were to receive contact out of the blue about long lost shares and how they believed the shares had 
already been sold. And, they appear to have answered other questions for the purposes of 
expediency, rather than accuracy. Id expect a reasonably prudent individual to enquire as to 
what checks they ought to have carried out and how to go about this (if nothing else to 
confirm that the checks they had done were sufficient). So, for these reasons, liability from 
the second payment onwards should be shared equally. 
Im satisfied with the attempts the bank made to recover the funds. There was a slight delay 
in trying to recover the money. But, in relation to the payments in December 2020 and 
January 2021, the receiving bank confirmed that the funds had already been withdrawn by 
the time the scam was reported. For the later payments, after an initial response saying it 
would not return the funds, the receiving bank failed to respond to further requests. So, I 
cant see that an earlier attempt to recover the money would have made any difference. 
In relation to compensation, I think that the £100 recommended by the investigator is fair in 
the circumstances. Ive noted that Mr and Ms F failed to receive promised call backs on 
occasion and I recognise the impact of the scam not having been prevented at the time, but 
Ive also taken into account the role Mr and Ms F had in what happened.
Finally, in relation to interest, it seems more likely than not that the money sent to the 
fraudsters would have remained where it was, so I think interest should be paid at the rates 
paid by the accounts from which the money came. I understand the money came from both 
other HSBC / First Direct accounts and from external accounts. Evidence of the interest rate 
on the external accounts can be provided separately to First Direct.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay 
Mr and Ms F:
- 50% of the second, third and fourth payments - £59,488.50
- Simple interest per annum on 50% of the second, third and fourth payments at the 
originating account rates from the date of each payment to the date of settlement
- £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman