DRN-2331894
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, didnt help him when he informed them 
of financial difficulties and mental health issues he was struggling with. Mr S is also unhappy 
that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr S contacted Aqua and notified them that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Aqua completed an income and expenditure analysis with Mr S and agreed to a 
three month payment plan at £1 per month with all interest and charges frozen for the 
duration of that plan.
The next month, in November 2018, Mr S contacted Aqua and asked for the agreed plan to 
be removed. Mr S then made a payment to Aqua and a direct debit was set up to collect the 
minimum payments due on Mr Ss account moving forwards.
A direct debit payment was received by Aqua in December 2018, but no further payments 
were received after that, which meant that Mr Ss account went into arrears. In March 2019, 
with the account now several months in arrears, Aqua closed Mr Ss account and passed it 
to a debt collection agency to recover the outstanding balance.
Shortly afterwards, Mr S spoke to Aqua and informed them that he was experiencing mental 
health problems. Mr Ss account was returned to Aqua on the basis that Mr S was 
considered a vulnerable customer. Aquas Customer Care Team then sent Mr S a medical 
pack so that Mr S could provide further information about his ill health. In June 22019, when 
the medical pack wasnt returned by Mr S, Aqua send a second medical pack to Mr S, but 
this also wasnt returned.
As Aqua didnt receive the information theyd requested from Mr S, and because Mr Ss 
account continued to remain in significant arrears, a default was recorded on Mr Ss credit 
file and the account was sold to a debt purchasing company. Mr S wasnt happy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Aqua looked at Mr Ss complaint. But they felt that theyd acted positively and 
sympathetically toward Mr S following his notifying them of difficulties. Aqua also felt that 
theyd followed the correct process before applying the default on Mr Ss account. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Aquas response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Aqua had responded 
appropriately upon learning of Mr Ss mental health issues, and that Aqua had applied the 
default fairly. So, they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Id like to thank Mr S for the detailed submissions that hes made to this 
service. I hope that Mr S wont consider it a discourtesy that I wont reply in similar detail 
here. Rather, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key points here so as to arrive at 
what I feel is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint  in line with this services 
role as quick and informal dispute resolution service.
If Mr S notes that I havent addressed a specific point that hes raised, it shouldnt be taken 
that I havent considered this point  I can confirm that Ive considered all the submissions 
provided by both Mr S and Aqua  but rather that I dont feel it necessary to address that 
point directly in order to explain the basis of my final decision.
Mr S feels that Aqua didnt provide him with support when he informed them of the financial 
difficulties, and later of the mental health issues, that he was struggling with.
When a customer notifies a business that they are experiencing difficulties of any kind, what 
this service would expect is that the business would react positively and sympathetically to 
that customer to help them negotiate the difficulties that theyve encountered.
Aqua appear to have done that here. In October 2018, when Mr S notified them of the 
financial difficulty he was experiencing, Aqua took details of Mr Ss income and expenditure 
to verify Mr Ss financial position and agreed to a temporary payment plan of £1 per month 
with all interest and charges frozen for the duration of the plan.
Additionally, in March 2019, when Mr S notified them of the mental health issues he was 
struggling with, Aqua took back Mr Ss account from the debt collection agency and sent Mr 
S medical packs to enable him to verify the information hed provided which in turn may have 
enabled Aqua to apply a tailored payment plan to Mr Ss account. Mr S didnt return these 
medical packs, but Im satisfied that by receiving Mr Ss account from the debt collection 
agency and sending the packs to Mr S, that Aqua did react positively and sympathetically 
toward Mr S in this instance.
Mr S is also unhappy that Aqua recorded a default on his credit file. But Aqua only took this 
course of action after Mr Ss account had fallen into significant arrears and after sending Mr 
S a series of correspondence highlighting these arrears and explaining that his account 
might be defaulted if no further payments were received. And having reviewed the 
correspondence sent by Aqua, Im satisfied that the appropriate process was followed and 
therefore that the default was applied correctly.
Mr S has stated that he didnt receive several letters from Aqua, including both medical 
packs mentioned above. But Aqua have been able to demonstrate that the letters were sent 
to Mr Ss correct address. And this service wouldnt hold a business accountable for letters 
sent but not received by a customer, given that the delivery of sent letters is an activity 
undertaken by a postal company and therefore one over which a business has no control.
Furthermore, having listened to several recorded telephone calls between Mr S and Aqua, 
Im satisfied that Aquas representatives did explain the ongoing situation clearly to Mr S 
such that I consider it reasonable to believe that Mr S should have had a clear 
understanding of the ongoing position of his account, including the potential consequences 
of continued non-payment toward the account.
And ultimately, there was continued non-payment toward the account. And while I 
sympathise with the personal and financial difficulties experienced by Mr S, given that Mr S didnt continue to engage with Aqua following his notifying them of his mental health 
difficulties, its difficult to conclude that Aqua have acted unfairly or unreasonably toward Mr 
S in how theyve managed his account, both before and after that point. 
This includes the defaulting of Mr Ss account and the recording of that default on Mr Ss 
credit file. And its difficult not to conclude that this default represents a true and accurate 
record of what took place.
Mr S has stated that he feels that Aqua were discriminating against him. I can appreciate 
that Mr S may have strong feelings about this matter. But having reviewed all the information 
and evidence available to me, including the recorded telephone calls, I havent found any 
evidence of any discrimination.
Finally, Mr S feels that the level of service he received from Aqua during telephone 
conversations wasnt of an acceptable standard. How a business speaks to its customers 
can be an emotive issue, but having listened to recordings of the telephone calls provided to 
us by Aqua, while I acknowledge that there are moments which could have been handled 
differently by Aquas representatives, on balance I dont feel that Mr S was spoken to in a 
manner such that a payment of compensation would be merited here. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Aqua to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr 
S can understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman