DRN-2353767
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in April 2000 
alongside a store card. Mr M says PPI was mis-sold.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
AXA had to make it clear that PPI was optional and that Mr M didnt have to take it out if he 
didnt want it. Looking at the application form, I can see Mr M has signed a separate box to 
indicate he wanted a PPI policy. It says in that separate section that Mr M should only sign 
that part of the form if he wanted PPI. I think the wording is sufficiently clear to indicate to Mr 
M that he could have refused cover if he wanted to. And I note that he did in fact decline a 
further financial product that was on offer at the same time. All in all, Im satisfied Mr M knew 
he could have refused this cover if he didnt want it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or 
suitable. But it did have to give Mr M enough clear and timely information so he could decide 
for himself if it was right for his needs. 
I accept its possible the information AXA gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out and so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. 
After taking account of everything before me, I dont think Mr M would have acted differently 
if hed been given more or better information about the cover. He doesnt appear to have 
been entitled to any sick pay, but he did say he would have been able to repay his card from 
his savings if he was off sick. Looking at the value of those savings, they look to have been 
equal to less than one months salary. As hed have been with his employer for only a 
month, he wouldnt have had any statutory redundancy entitlement. So with PPI, Mr M could 
have put those savings towards his other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt 
been a very stressful time for him if he was out of work.
As set out above, when he bought the PPI, Mr M told us that he had been working for his 
employer for one month. Both AXA and our adjudicator have tried to seek further information 
from Mr M and his representative on that point. However, no substantive reply was received 
to any of those requests. And I note that those representing Mr M did not take issue when 
our adjudicator said she couldnt conclude Mr Ms length of service would have affected the 
cover. So in the absence of a further response on this point, I draw the same conclusion as 
our adjudicator and find that its most likely there was no break between jobs and Mr Ms 
employment was continuous for at least six months. 
I can see Mr M told us hed suffered concussion in 1969 and that he stayed in hospital for 
one night. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this injury caused Mr M any ongoing 
problems. So I cant realistically say that a one-off injury over 30 years before the cover was 
sold would amount to a pre-existing health condition that would have affected Mr Ms 
decision to take the PPI policy. 
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. He wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably 
thought he was buying from the information he was given. I havent seen anything to suggest 
it was unaffordable. On that basis, it seems PPI could have been useful if something went 
wrong with Mr Ms job. Because of this I dont think Mr M would have declined the cover had 
AXA done anything more.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman