DRN-3805322
The complaint
Ms K complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund money she lost to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Ms K was introduced to a job opportunity by a friend with a company Ill refer to as PT. 
Ms K says she was promised she could make money by helping with social media 
engagements across a number of different social platforms. 
Ms K said her friend had taken a job with PT and made some investments and that she was 
able to withdraw some of the money shed made. Ms K says this convinced her the 
employment opportunity was legitimate. 
Ms K told us she was added to a messaging group with numerous other members. She says 
she asked questions to the group and she received good reviews. 
Following this, Ms K decided to proceed and take part in the job opportunity. She created a 
profile, download an app for PT and made payments, which she believed were deposits to 
unlock a number of tasks that she needed to complete to earn money. 
The payments Ms K made from her Wise account as a result of the scam are as follows:
Date Payee Amount
23/01/2022 Payee 1 £500
27/01/2022 Payee 2 £300
01/02/2022 Payee 3 £1,300
06/02/2022 Payee 4 £1,100
Total loss £3,200
I understand on 14 February 2022, PTs servers went offline. Ms K thought this would be 
down for a few hours. However, it remained offline and PT became uncontactable. 
Ms K reported the scam to Wise the same day. Wise said it would not be refunding Ms K the 
money shed lost. Wise said the payments she made didnt appear as out of character. The 
payments Ms K made as part of the scam were sent to four other accounts held by Wise. 
Wise attempted recovery of the funds on 15 February 2022. It then made further recovery 
attempts on 22 February 2022. At this point, Wise attempted to recall payments that had 
been sent out of its customers accounts. Wise later informed Ms K that no funds remained. 
Wise also said that under its Customer Agreement with Ms K, it cannot be held responsible 
for unforeseeable loss and damage. 
Unhappy with Wises response, Ms K brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the matter and she initially didnt recommend the case be upheld. 
She didnt think the payments Ms K made were so remarkable that Wise ought to have been 
concerned. Having looked at the previous activity, she said Ms K mainly used the account to 
make transfers which tends to be the way this type of money remittance account is used. 
While she noted the payments were made to new payees, she didnt think the payments 
were made in such quick succession that they ought to have stood out as unusual or 
suspicious to Wise. She didnt think Wise had missed an opportunity to identify the payments 
as being made as part of a scam. 
Our Investigator thought about whether Wise took the steps it should have once it was 
aware of the scam. She said that had Wise contacted the receiving bank/payment service 
provider (PSP) as soon as it was aware of the fraud, she didnt think it would have made a 
difference in the circumstances. She thought it was likely the funds would have been moved 
from the receiving accounts (the accounts the funds were sent to), given the time between 
the dates of the payments and the scam being reported. 
Ms K responded to our Investigators view and enquired about the recovery of funds after 
noting it was eight days between her reporting the matter and Wise contacting the receiving 
bank/PSP, according to what our Investigator had set out in her view. 
Following this, our Investigator requested further information from Wise in its capacity also 
as the receiving bank/PSP to see if any funds remained. After receiving this, she issued a 
second view on the case. She explained that her view remained the same about the 
payments Ms K made. She remained of the view that the payments werent so remarkable in 
amount and frequency to have caused Wise concern. However, she noted there were 
enough funds in the receiving accounts at the time Ms K reported the scam, which she said 
wouldve covered the amount of money Ms K had sent. Our Investigator felt that had Wise 
contacted the receiving bank/PSP the same day Ms K reported the scam, it wouldve been 
able to recover her funds. She recommended Wise reimburse Ms K for all four-scam 
payments, alongside 8% simple interest. 
Wise told our Investigator that it could only start the recovery process after it received a 
police report, which Ms K obtained on 17 February 2022. Wise, at this point, also informed 
our Investigator that it had received two recoveries following its attempts. This was a 
recovery of £1,300 and £300 (£1,600 in total). 
Our Investigator thought about what Wise had said. But she didnt think it was reasonable to 
wait for a police report. She thought Wise ought to have contacted the recipient PSPs/banks 
as soon as it had been made aware of the scam. From the information Wise had provided 
she could see funds remained in the recipient accounts when Ms K raised the matter, so she 
concluded Wise should reimburse Ms K the money shed lost. 
Wise disagreed with our Investigators view. In brief, it maintained that it was reasonable for 
it to ask for a police report. It said that the scam report received by its customer support does 
not hold enough legal weight in order to be able to touch funds from another Wise account. Further investigation
On reviewing the complaint for a final decision, I reached out to Wise in an attempt to 
mediate the complaint. I also enquired about the two later recovery of funds and whether the 
amount of £1,600 had been paid to Ms K. 
Wise replied to say it wished to receive a final decision. It acknowledged that the recovered 
funds of £1,600 had not yet been refunded to Ms K. It offered its apology for this and offered 
£250 compensation for this delay. Wise has since told us, on 26 June 2023, that the amount 
of £1,600 has now been reimbursed to Ms Ks Wise account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a PSP  in this case, Wise as an electronic 
money institute (EMI)  is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers 
account. 
Here, while Ms K was tricked into making the payments, she did in fact make the 
payments herself. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which are 
the relevant regulations in place here, the payments are considered as authorised by her. 
And under the PSRs this means Ms K is responsible for the payments. That remains the 
case even though Ms K was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
Wise is an EMI, so Ms Ks account with it isnt a bank account and isnt subject 
to the same expectations set out in guidance and regulation as a current account, or bank, 
would be when it comes to fraud prevention.
But that doesnt mean Wise had no obligation to Ms K. Im satisfied that Wise does have a 
duty of care to treat its customers fairly under PRIN 2.1 as set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook. And Im satisfied Wise is required to be on the lookout for 
indications of financial crime - I can see that the terms and conditions reflect that it will take 
action if it suspects, amongst other financial crimes, fraudulent activity.
So Im satisfied Wise ought reasonably to have some sort of systems in place to 
monitor the transactions on its accounts, but I also think any additional checks it carries out 
into suspicious transactions should be proportionate to its relationship with its customers. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Wise acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms K when she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did.
When thinking about the payments Ms K made, Ive kept in mind that EMIs process a high 
volume of transfers and transactions each day. And an EMI has to strike a balance as to 
when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its 
customers requests. Looking at the payments made in this particular case, I cant fairly say that there was 
anything unusual or remarkable about the payments or the amounts that reasonably ought to 
have alerted Wise to the possibility Ms K was potentially at risk of financial harm, where I 
would expect it to have concerns and step in and question Ms K further about the payments.
While I accept the payments made were sent to four new payees, I dont find this in and of 
itself ought to have put Wise on notice that Ms K might have been at risk of financial harm. I 
say this because this is a feature of an EMI  that money is regularly sent to new payees. I 
also have to take into account that the payments werent made in such quick succession  
with there being a few days in-between each of the payments. So overall, I cant fairly say 
that the payments could be considered so out of character that there could reasonably have 
been grounds for Wise to be suspicious that Ms K may be the victim of fraud to an extent 
whereby I would expect it to intervene.
  
Should Wise have done more to try and retrieve Ms Ks money?
Ive also looked to see whether Wise acted promptly and in a timely manner in trying to 
recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. 
Wise in its submissions to us said the recovery process could only be started after it 
received a police report, which Ms K obtained on 17 February 2022. The payments Ms K 
made in this case were sent to four other Wise accounts. 
I reached out to Wise to discuss the recovery process when a customer notifies it that they 
have been the victim of fraud. Wise in its response said from a civil law perspective, its 
accountholders were deemed the owner of the funds on the balance of the account. It says it 
considers asking for a police report an appropriate measure before removing funds from an 
account without the accountholders consent.  
Ive thought carefully about what Wise has said, but as Ms Ks payment service provider, 
Wise had an obligation to act on her notification of fraud. The process followed by UK banks 
and payment service providers for reporting payments made as a result of authorised push 
payment (APP) fraud is for the payers payment service provider to send notification to the 
recipient bank/PSP. One of the reasons for this is to mitigate its customers losses. I find 
Wise had an opportunity to do so promptly here, given that the accounts Ms K sent the 
payments to, were also Wise accounts. 
Whilst I must have consideration of the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I also have a 
duty to resolve a complaint based on what is fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of a complaint. Taking everything into account, I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for Wise not to have taken the necessary steps to start the recovery process 
upon Ms K notifying it of the scam. And Im not persuaded Wise needed to wait for a police 
report before being able to do so.
Our services approach to recovery of funds would usually be to consider whether any of the 
complainants (here Ms Ks) funds remained at the point the recipient PSP reasonably ought 
to have blocked the account. This could arise from its own monitoring obligations and/or it 
being put on notice that the account in question was in receipt of fraudulently obtained funds. 
Here Wise, as the receiving PSP, adopted the approach of returning the money on a first 
come first serve basis.  Had Wise taken the steps I reasonably would have expected it to have taken when Ms K 
reported the matter to it (as a customer of theirs), as Ive explained above, working to the 
principle it applied in returning funds, Im persuaded Ms K wouldve received a refund. 
In my opinion, Wises error as Ms Ks PSP (in asking her to report the matter to the police 
first before taking action) has had a direct detrimental impact on her, which has resulted in 
her not being reimbursed the money shes lost to the scam. So, I think its only fair that Wise 
puts Ms K back into the position she wouldve been in but for it incorrectly asking for a police 
report. 
I can see, whilst there was no obligation on it to do so, that Wise did attempt to recall 
payments that had been sent out of its customers accounts  to which two later recoveries 
were received totalling £1,600. I understand this relates to the payments of £300 and £1,300 
that Ms K made, and which Wise has now said has been credited back to Ms Ks account. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, based on Wises adopted approach to the 
remaining funds, I think Ms K has lost out as a result and so, I find it fair and reasonable that 
she be reimbursed the funds shes lost to this scam.
Wise in its communication with us offered £250 compensation for the delay in reimbursing 
Ms K the recovered funds totalling £1,600. While Wise has since told us it has now credited 
Ms Ks account with the £1,600, I think the £250 compensation offered to reflect the delay in 
doing so, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Wise Payments Limited to: 
- Reimburse Ms K the money shes lost to the scam totalling £3,200 (minus the £1,600 
Wise says has already been credited back to her account). 
- Pay Ms K interest on the total amount at 8% simple p.a from the date Wise declined 
the claim until the date it refunds Ms K. I find 8% simple interest p.a to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances as, on balance, I think its likely the money would 
otherwise have been used for everyday spending. 
- Pay Ms K the £250 compensation offered, if not already paid, to reflect the delay in 
reimbursing her the later recovered funds.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman