DRN-1681084
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs K say they missed out on paying a lump sum off their mortgage in 2018 
because they were given incorrect information by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr R was given the right information in the call of 28 November 2018. 
In that call he was told he could make an overpayment in 2018 and was given the details of 
how to do so.
Mr R says he phoned back the next day to ask the same question as he wasnt convinced 
the person hed spoken to the day before had given him the right information and the 
information available online was unclear. He says in that second call he was told he couldnt 
make an overpayment until 2019.
Halifax has been unable to trace that second call despite doing various searches narrowed 
down to the time Mr R says he called, and theres no note on its system to show a call was 
received.
As I said, its not in dispute that Halifax gave Mr R the right information on 28 November. 
That right information was also set out with their mortgage offer:
You are able to make overpayments to this mortgage at any time subject to the early 
repayment charges detailed in the 'Early repayment' section of the mortgage illustration. 
Currently, as a concession, during the period when the early repayment charge applies, 
you can make overpayments up to 10% of the outstanding balance each calendar year 
(using the balance as at 1 January of the year in question or, in the year in which you 
take out your mortgage, the original balance) and the charge will be waived. This is a 
concession which can be changed or withdrawn.  my emphasis.
That clearly states that overpayments are calculated by calendar year, and an overpayment 
can be made in the calendar year the mortgage is taken out. As that information matches 
what Mr R was told on 28 November there are no grounds for me to uphold this complaint.
Mr R and Mrs K have expressed dissatisfaction that Halifax cant find the call Mr R says he 
made on 29 November and they feel it points to inadequate record keeping. Whilst Ive given 
a great deal of thought to this point, Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and Mrs K but I cant uphold 
it. Whilst Im not doubting their integrity and honesty in bringing this complaint there 
unfortunately is nothing to support Mr Rs testimony that not only did he make that call, but 
that the content of it is exactly as he says.
As Mr R and Mrs K are the ones bringing the complaint against Halifax, to uphold the 
complaint their version needs to be more likely than Halifaxs version not just as likely. And 
having considered everything, on balance I cant say that Mr R and Mrs Ks version is 
anything other than just as likely.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr R and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman