DRN-4200644
The complaint
Mr P complains that  he hasnt received a refund of his deposit after Marsh Finance Limited  
(MFL) agreed to rejection of a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement 
(HPA)with MFL. He would like his deposit refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale so MFL 
allowed Mr P to reject it. The main issue for me to address is redress. Our 
investigator recommended MFL  added 8% simple interest to repayments already 
refunded, refunded Mr Ps deposit and paid £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience. MFL doesnt accept any of these recommendations.
It is standard for us to apply 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement for any refunds on rejection of a vehicle. I appreciate MFLs point that 
it refunded Mr Ps repayments prior to our investigator issuing his view but I dont 
think the timing is relevant. I think it was appropriate that MFL refunded the 
payments and have noted it made no deduction for any use of the car. However, as 
Mr P only drove the car for 346 miles and reported faults within the first 30 days of 
having the car I think MFL acted appropriately in not making deductions for fair use. 
However, I see no reason not to depart from our usual view of applying 8% simple 
interest on payments from the date made to the date MFL refunded them.
In terms of the deposit of £675 this is clearly noted on the HPA Mr P signed. I dont 
accept MFLs point that it has no responsibility for this as the money was paid to the 
dealership. MFL is responsible for the actions of those involved in setting up the 
agreement with MFL. So, it does have responsibility to refund the deposit  as Mr P 
is entitled to have his deposit refunded on rejection.
Finally, MFL doesnt agree Mr P should get the £100 distress and inconvenience 
payment our investigator recommended.  I dont think MFLs point that in its view 
the car wasnt unsafe to drive is relevant to the issue of compensation. There was 
sufficient reason for MFL to agree rejection early into Mr Ps agreement  I dont think 
Mr P could have foreseen he would have had problems so early into his agreement 
so  I do think that caused him some inconvenience. Also, MFL acknowledged in its 
submissions to us that there were several delays  with the broker and dealership in 
relation to Mr Ps request to unwind the finance agreement. It  seems to me that 
£100  is a modest payment which I think is more than appropriate in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
.
In full and final settlement Marsh Finance Ltd should:-
Refund Mr Ps deposit of £675 with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement .
Pay Mr P 8% simple interest on the repayments it has already refunded from the date 
of payment to the date of refund
Pay Mr P £100 for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman