DRN-3652292
The complaint
Ms A complains that Revolut Ltd will not refund card payments she believed were going to a 
legitimate trading company which she says turned out to be a scam.
Ms A is represented in this matter by CEL Solicitors (CEL).  For simplicity, I will refer to 
CELs actions and submissions as those made by Ms A.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Ms A made several card payments to a cryptocurrency exchange I will refer to as B 
in this decision.  These payments were made using Ms As Revolut card.  Ms A says she 
believed the payments would go from B to her trading platform account with an investment 
trading company.  However, she says she later discovered she had been scammed and lost 
all her money.
Ms A contacted Revolut about this and asked it to try to recover her money.  As this did not 
happen, she raised a complaint which referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Ms A did not 
agree with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Intervention
Ms A says Revolut should have flagged the transactions concerned and stopped them.  
Having considered this, I am unable to agree.  I say this because I am not persuaded that 
Revolut ought to have intervened regarding the payments.  That is, I am not persuaded 
Revolut ought to have been altered to the payments, delayed them and asked questions to 
get to the bottom of what was going on.  In my view, I do not find the payments remarkable 
in any way to be cause for concern.
Ms A also argues that Revolut should have stopped the payments as they were being made 
to a banned company.  From what I have considered, this is not an accurate assertion.  
That is, there is nothing credible I have seen which suggests the purchasing of 
cryptocurrency from B is banned.  It follows that I am not of the view Revolut should have 
stopped Ms As payments to B.
Chargeback
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to pursue a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Ms A).
Ms A made the payments concerned to B, which is a cryptocurrency exchange.  The service 
they provided her was the purchase of cryptocurrency.  Because of this, if Revolut had 
raised a chargeback, I am persuaded it would have likely been unsuccessful.  I say this 
because the alleged scam company was not a party to the card payments, so Ms A could 
not have a valid claim against the legitimate merchants (B) she paid.  B provided their 
services as intended, which was to purchase cryptocurrency.  The subsequent transfer of 
this would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim. 
It follows that Revolut acted fairly and reasonably by not raising a chargeback on Ms As 
behalf, as B would have likely been able to defend such a claim.  This is supported by the 
fact that I can see Revolut raised an informal chargeback against B  as it felt Ms A had no 
valid rights under the formal process  which B responded to defending its position.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman