DRN-3231267
The complaint
Mr D complains Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros declined a claim he made 
on his buildings insurance policy for subsidence at a property he owns.  
What happened
References to Mr D and Ocaso include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive summarised what 
happened.
Mr D owns a let property insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Ocaso.
A tradesman identified possible subsidence at the property so Mr D reported this to 
Ocaso to make a claim on his policy.
After some investigation, Ocaso declined the claim saying the damage was pre-inception 
of Mr Ds policy. In May 2021, Mr D complained and Ocaso let him know he could refer 
his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator asked Ocaso a number of times to provide information to explain its 
position but it failed to do this within the timescales. So, he proceeded with his 
investigation and upheld the complaint.
Ocaso disagreed, providing information it said supported its position. It reiterated its view 
the damage occurred pre-inception and said this was shown in the survey Mr D had 
undertaken before he purchased the property in 2006.
Our Investigator remained of the view the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt 
satisfied Ocaso had presented sufficient evidence to show the current damage was 
linked to what was mentioned in the 2006 survey or that there was subsidence present 
before policy inception. 
He also said Ocaso had hinted at an allegation of misrepresentation but it hadnt 
expanded on this nor made it clear what Mr D had been asked at inception. He pointed 
out the survey hadnt identified the likely cause of damage as subsidence and the 
surveyor said no further investigation was necessary. 
So he concluded even if Mr D had been asked a clear question, he would have likely 
relied on what a Chartered Building Surveyor said when answering any question about 
subsidence and responded to say there wasnt any.
Ocaso asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on a policy the onus is on the policyholder to show the claim is 
covered by the policy. When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline a claim, the 
onus is on it to show the exclusion applies. Ill be assessing this complaint with this in mind 
together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
The 2006 survey
Ocasos key reason for the claim being declined was that it said the subsidence damage 
being claimed for was identified in the 2006 survey and was therefore present before the 
inception of the policy. So, Ive gone on to consider the contents of the survey.
The survey was undertaken by a suitably qualified Chartered Building Surveyor before Mr D 
purchased the property. The report discusses the construction of the property and a number 
of defects are noted. 
The report explains:
No evidence of any significant cracking or distortion was noted.
The slight movement and distortion noted to the rear wing may be due to initial 
settlement of the property shortly after construction. However, this may also be due 
to previous damage or water leakage to the underground drains or incoming water 
main.The damage appeared longstanding in nature and it is possible that the 
cause has been repaired.
Notably, subsidence isnt identified as the cause of the defects seen and the report 
concludes that no further investigations or repairs are considered necessary. It seems self-
evident to me that if, in the professional opinion of the surveyor, subsidence was likely to be 
the cause of the damage, his report would have specified this. But it doesnt so Im satisfied, 
on balance, there was no subsidence present at the time of the survey. 
I acknowledge here Ocaso interprets aspects of this report as suggesting there was ongoing 
movement at the time. But Im not persuaded by this argument  the survey represents the 
contemporaneous opinion of a qualified professional and he specifically states theres no 
sign of any recent movement. Theres nothing in the report which suggests he believed there 
was ongoing movement either. So, on balance, and in the absence of other professional 
opinion from the time, Im satisfied its more likely than not there was no recent or ongoing 
movement at the time.
Overall, Im not Ocaso has done enough to show the damage pre-existed the inception of 
the policy.
Movement since 
Its clear from the evidence the main area of damage has become more severe over time. In 
2020, I note the loss assessor employed by Ocaso described the damage in 2006 as 
clearly not as severe as it is now. 
The loss assessors site notes from October 2020 identified the damage as level four to five 
on the BRE scale used to identify subsidence severity. This indicates 4. Extensive damage 
to 5. Structural damage. This seems to me to be significantly more severe than the slight 
movement identified in the 2006 survey.So, on balance, Im not persuaded subsidence damage started and ended before the policy 
was incepted in 2007 and it seems more likely it occurred during the life of the policy.
Implied misrepresentation 
After some confusion between Ocaso and its loss assessors, a repudiation letter was 
eventually issued. In this, Ocaso said the damage in question should have been declared to 
insurers. 
Our Investigator pointed out a number of times to Ocaso that it hadnt identified the basis of 
this statement. Nor has it identified a question that Mr D has failed to answer correctly when 
taking out or renewing the policy or where the requirement to report the damage was made 
clear to him. Ocaso hasnt responded to this nor has it made a clear and specific accusation 
of misrepresentation.
So, in the absence of this, Ive not seen evidence of an obligation on Mr D to declare the 
damage to Ocaso. Im not satisfied its fair or reasonable for Ocaso to rely on this supposed 
non-disclosure as a reason for the claim being declined.
Earlier reporting
In its submissions to this service Ocaso says Mr D should have disclosed the damage 
sooner than he did and may have prejudiced its position because he didnt. Mr D has been 
clear that a tradesman identified possible subsidence while undertaking work on the property 
in July 2020 and this was the first Mr D knew of it. He reported it to Ocaso shortly after in the 
same month.
Given that Mr D has been insured by Ocaso since he purchased the property in 2007, I see 
no reason why he would have delayed reporting the damage if he had become aware of it 
earlier. It seems persuasive to me that he reported shortly after it was brought to his 
attention by the tradesman.
Im mindful here that this is not a property Mr D lives in and he only visits it occasionally, 
something acknowledged by Ocasos loss assessors in internal correspondence in 
November 2020.
So Im satisfied, on balance, its more likely Mr D reported the damage shortly after it was 
drawn to his attention rather than after any unreasonable delay.
Service issues
Our Investigator detailed a significant number of service issues through the life of the claim, 
which I dont propose to detail again here. But it is clear to me theres considerable internal 
communication issues between Ocaso and its agents resulting in confusion and delays in 
the handling of the claim.
I can see how this would have caused Mr D distress and inconvenience and Ill be keeping in 
this in mind in my direction.  
Putting things right
I will be directing Ocaso to reconsider the claim against the remaining terms and conditions 
and pay Mr D £150 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros 
y Reaseguros to:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions without relying on 
the exclusion for pre-existing damage.
Pay Mr D £150 for the distress and experience hes experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman