DRN-3960300
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is refusing to fully 
reimburse the loss they suffered due to an authorised push payment scam. They also say 
that the bank failed to prevent the fraud from occurring, did not provide them with any 
warning via text or phone call, and later there was undue delay on the part of the bank to 
take action when T notified it of the scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in August 2020, Ts staff received instructions via email purportedly from one of Ts 
directors asking them to make two payments totalling £27,500 to an account with Bank A. 
Two days later it came to light that this was a scam. The director contacted HSBC to report 
the scam but was advised that the fraud centre was not open that day being a Saturday. He 
was asked to call the following Monday, which he did. HSBC immediately contacted Bank A, 
but unfortunately no funds remained in the recipients account.
HSBC apologised for the incorrect information provided to the director when he first called 
the bank. It offered to pay £400 - £200 for the inconvenience this matter has caused and 
£200 being the amount that could potentially have been recovered had the bank taken action 
when the director first contacted it. 
HSBC also reviewed Ts claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
Code) and offered to reimburse T 50% of the sum lost. It however declined to reimburse the 
loss in full. In essence it said that Ts staff ought to have known that the payment request 
was somewhat unusual and should have taken steps to contact the director before making 
the payment. The bank also said that the director provided his log in details to the staff to 
make payments which he shouldnt have. It further said that T ignored the Confirmation of 
Payee (CoP) warning and continued to make the payments.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He said, in summary: 
The banks warning wasnt effective or impactful in the circumstances.
The CoP message wasnt sufficient to prevent C from continuing with the payments. 
Also, the bank could only rely on exception R2(1)(b) under the Code - which is in relation 
to CoP messages  from 28 April 2022 and it was not retrospective.
This was a sophisticated scam and T had reasonable basis of belief that the email was 
genuinely from the director.
Given the above, the investigator was of the view that it wouldnt be fair on part of HSBC to 
refuse to reimburse the loss in full. Therefore, they said that HSBC should reimburse the 
remaining 50% also, together with interest.
HSBC did not agree and essentially reiterated its points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code. This code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one T fell victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those 
exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM Code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods 
or services and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
Where the Customer is a Micro-enterprise or Charity, it did not follow its own internal 
procedures for approval of payments, and those procedures would have been effective 
in preventing the APP scam or 
The Customer has been grossly negligent 
There is a further exception that could apply where a customer did not take appropriate 
actions following a clear negative Confirmation of Payee result, but as stated by the 
investigator, this wasnt in force at the relevant time.
Did T ignore an effective warning? 
The CRM Code says that an effective warning should enable a customer understand the 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific. 
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning it says T was shown before making the payment. 
The warning says:  
Fraudsters may call or email pretending to be people you trust like a supplier, HSBC or 
even the police. They could ask you to change the beneficiary account details such as 
account number, sort code, IBAN or BIC and make a payment to the new details. If you 
receive an unexpected request to initiate a new payment or make changes then please 
independently verify that the request is genuine and not a scam before making any 
payments e.g. by using their telephone number from a trusted source such as their website.
While this warning does mention the possibility of impersonation scams, I dont think it was 
specific to be effective in Ts circumstances. In this instance the email wasnt from a supplier 
or someone pretending to be the bank or police. It was purportedly from the director. T wasnt warned of the possibility of director impersonation scam which was relevant here. 
Further, this was not an unexpected request, as it wasnt unusual for the director to ask the 
staff to make new payments via email. There was also no indication as to what would 
happen if T proceeded with the payment. 
(The bank has given us an example of another set of warning but from what I can see that 
warning is only triggered if there was a no match of the payee name, which didnt happen 
here. So, I am not convinced that T would have seen that warning.)
Overall, I am not persuaded that the warning provided by the bank was effective. I therefore 
also dont think HSBC has established that T ignored an effective warning when making 
these payments.
Did T have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment? 
The email to the staff purportedly came from the director. There was a small variation in the 
email address but otherwise the email looked similar to the other genuine emails the staff 
received from the director  samples of which T has provided us. The staff had no idea that 
their email account had been hacked. 
The above referred emails also show that it wasnt unusual for the director to send emails to 
the staff asking them to make payments on behalf of the company.
The email asked the staff to make payment to the directors personal account. The bank 
says that paying the director from the account was an unusual activity and so the staff ought 
to have been suspicious about the request. However, T has provided us evidence to show 
that the company does make payments to the director, albeit from a different account. So, I 
cant say that it is unusual for the company to pay the director. Also, the scammers email 
didnt specify from which account the payment should be made. So, the fact that the 
payment went from a different account appears simply to be the staffs choice at the time. 
When the payment was made, there was a Confirmation of Payee check. HSBC says that T 
ignored the CoP warning given at the time and continued to make the payments. Firstly, the 
message wasnt that there was a mismatch in the payees name, it was that the name could 
not be checked. The fraudster anticipated this and advised the staff beforehand that they 
would get a message stating that the name cant be verified and that was fine because their 
bank hadnt yet signed up to the CoP system. That was correct as Bank A (the recipient 
bank) wasnt participating in the CoP system at the time. So, I can see why the staff didnt 
consider the CoP message to be suspicious. Further, the message stated that before 
proceeding with the payment the payer should contact the beneficiary and confirm the 
details via a phone or email. However, as noted previously, the email which purportedly 
came from the director already had advised the staff that they would receive a message of 
this nature and assured them that it was fine. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think it can fairly be said that T (the staff) made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that it was genuine.
Did T not follow its own procedure?
Ts director has explained that usually he or that particular staff would make the payments 
and the same procedure was followed on this occasion as well. He also says that it is not 
unusual for him to instruct via email to the staff to make payments and as noted above, has 
provided us with genuine examples of the same. So, I dont think it could be said that T didnt 
follow its own procedures.Did T act in a grossly negligent manner
It was a sophisticated scam, the email appeared genuine, the fraudster anticipated and 
addressed any potential concern, and it wasnt that the staff did not follow any set procedure. 
So, I dont think it is fair to say that T acted in a grossly negligent manner when making the 
payments. 
HSBC says that the director provided his log in details to the staff to make payments, which 
it says he shouldnt have done. 
The director explains that the account was set up in 2008 and it was his co-director who set 
up the account and as such had the log in details. However, they are a very small business 
and only he and the other staff make all the payments. So, they didnt feel any need to set 
up separate log in details for each one of them. 
I appreciate what the bank says and ideally separate log in details were obtained by T for the 
director and the staff. However, the Payments Services Regulations 2017 do allow for 
payment transactions be initiated by someone acting on behalf of the consumer (e.g. an 
agent).  
Whilst I agree that the director / staff could have obtained their own log in details, there is no 
dispute here that T allowed the staff to make payments on its behalf and that they were 
scammed in the process of making payments on behalf of T. In the circumstances, I dont 
think it is fair and reasonable for HSBC to deny reimbursement to T for this reason, when 
otherwise full reimbursement would have been due under the CRM Code. In reaching my 
conclusion I have also taken into account Ts submission that even if they had obtained a 
separate log in detail for the staff, the loss couldnt have been prevented here, given the 
circumstances. In other words, Ts failure to obtain separate log in detail for the staff didnt 
cause the loss.  
Taking all of the above into account, I agree with the investigator that it would not be fair for 
HSBC to only reimburse 50% of the loss under the Code. 
Putting things right
As I understand it, the total loss to T was £27,500. Of this I believe HSBC has already 
reimbursed £13,750. It appears that, in addition, HSBC has paid £400 to T. This is made up 
of £200 for the inconvenience this matter has caused (which I agree is fair), and another 
£200 which would have been recoverable from the recipient had HSBC acted sooner. Thus, 
of the total £27,500 it appears that HSBC has already reimbursed £13,950 to T. 
Therefore, HSBC should now reimburse the remaining £13,550 to T. It should also pay 
interest on this sum. The funds were lost from a business current account, which earned little 
interest. But the relevant question is the opportunity cost of the lost funds to T. In this case, I 
cannot be certain about the cost to T of being deprived of the money because it might have 
used the funds in a variety of ways. It is however clear to see that this was a large sum of 
money and the loss has had an impact on the company. In the circumstances, without any 
compelling reason to depart from our usual approach, I consider it fair and reasonable that 
HSBC pays T simple interest at 8% p.a. on the £13,550. 
Interest should be paid from the date the bank declined Cs claim (i.e. the date when it 
agreed to pay only 50%) to the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should reimburse £13,550 together with interest as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman