DRN-1705522
 
The complaint
Ms F complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) gave her a credit 
card facility which she couldnt afford.
What happened
Ms F opened a credit card account with 118 118 Money in April 2018. The credit limit on the 
card was £250 and has never been increased. 
Ms F says at the time she applied for the card she had high levels of debt and 118 118 
Money acted irresponsibly approving her for the credit card. She said this additional credit 
made her financial situation worse. So, she complained to 118 118 Money, but it didnt 
uphold her complaint. 
118 118 Money said it asked Ms F extensive questions about her circumstances and used 
industry standard verification checks to confirm the information she had provided on her 
application form. And based on this, it approved the credit card
Ms F didnt agree with this and referred the matter to this service. One of investigators 
looked into things. But he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
checks 118 118 Money had carried out were proportionate in the circumstances. 
Ms F disagreed with the outcome the investigator had reached - although she didnt 
specifically say why. But she did ask for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to make credit available to Ms F, 118 118 Money needed to make 
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. 
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect 
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well the 
consumer's personal circumstances. 
Ive seen that Ms Fs credit card agreement set out that the credit limit was £250. And the 
minimum monthly repayment was 1% of the remaining balance shown on the statement plus 
a monthly subscription fee of £8. Interest is not payable on a 118 118 Money credit card. 
 
 118 118 Money has provided a copy of the application Ms F completed when she applied for 
the credit card and the results it obtained froma credit search it also did. Within the 
application, I can see that Ms F said that she was single and living with parents. And that 
she was full-time employed earning £1,940 per month. She also declared her regular 
commitments  which included payments to existing credit facilities, to be £522 in total. This 
suggests that Ms F had a disposable income of around £1,400 per month. This would 
indicate Ms F had enough disposable income to meet the repayments due on a credit card 
with a limit of £250. 
Ms F has told us that at the time she applied for this credit card she already had a lot of debt. 
And I can see that the regular commitments she input on the application was largely 
repayments to other credit facilities. 
I can also see that the credit file search 118 118 Money did shows the amount and type of 
credit facilities she had. But the information on the credit file report doesnt show any 
adverse information which might have suggested that Ms F had experienced someproblems 
repaying her existing borrowing - such as a default. 
Considering all the above, I havent seen anything that would make me think 118 188 Money 
should have been prompted to do any further checks. And, overall, I think 118 118 Moneys 
decision to provide a relatively modest credit limit of £250 was fair and reasonable. 
There are a number of independent financial advice organisations which provide help and 
supportfor consumers in financial difficulties. The contact details of a range of these 
organisations were provided by our investigator. I would urge Ms F to contact such an 
organisation if she is still struggling financially. 
But for the reasons given above, I dont think 118 118 Money did anything wrong when it 
provided Ms F with a credit card with a limit of £250. So, I wont be asking it to take any 
further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14July2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman