DRN-3955447
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc took too long to resolve an issue with online 
payments on his account.
What happened
Mr S holds a current account with Santander, he says that he was unable to make online 
payments from that account from December 2021 until June 2022. On 31 March 2022 Mr S 
contacted Santander to tell it about the issue he was having, he explained that hed tried to 
make an online transfer to an account he held with another bank but was receiving an error 
message and was unable to complete the payment. At that time, he told Santander hed had 
a similar issue a few weeks previously.
Santander said it would refer the issue to its IT department and would update Mr S when it 
had a solution, hopefully within 48 hours. Santander did not provide any further update to 
Mr S until 31 May 2021, after he had chased it, and that update was that it was still unable to 
determine what the issue was with online payments for Mr S account. Santander agreed 
that this was poor service, and offered Mr S £75 to recognise what had happened, it said it 
would provide a further update as soon as it had a solution and suggested that Mr S delete 
and then set up the payee again to see if that solved the problem. Mr S did so but this did 
not resolve things.
Mr S was unhappy with how Santander had handled his concerns, in addition to the lack of 
update about his issue, and the fact it had not yet been resolved, he was also unhappy with 
the wait times when he called Santander and with its plans to start charging for calls. So 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
Santander then wrote to Mr S on 22 June 2021 to say the issue had been fixed and that he 
would be able to make online payments again.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened and explained that they felt 
Santanders payment of £75 compensation was reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Mr S did not agree, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as out Investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. 
Firstly, while I note that Mr S says this issue was affecting him from December 2021 
onwards there is no evidence to show that he raised this with Santander until 31 March 
2022. His complaint to Santander, and his original submission to our service, also only made 
reference to him being unable to make online payments from March 2022. So I will only be 
considering Santanders actions from March 2022 onwards in this decision as Santander 
does not appear to have been given the opportunity to comment on  or resolve  any 
issues prior to March 2022.
When Mr S did let Santander know about the problem he was having, Im satisfied that 
Santander took reasonable steps during that initial call to try and help resolve things. It 
offered several suggestions to see if Mr S could make the payment he needed to make, and 
when those suggestions were unsuccessful Santander offered to transfer the funds for Mr S. 
I also think it was reasonable at that stage for Santander to refer the problem to its IT 
department.
But it was not reasonable for Santander to not give Mr S any update on what was happening 
for another two months. And its disappointing that it took nearly three months in total from 
when the issue was first raised for Santander to fix the problem behind the scenes so that 
Mr S could once again make online payments.
So I agree that the service Santander has provided to Mr S could have been better here. 
However, I am satisfied that the £75 Santander has already paid to him is appropriate 
compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint, and in line with what I would have 
awarded. I acknowledge that Mr S says he essentially had no access to his finds for that 
period, but I wouldnt agree that was the case. Yes, he was unable to make online 
payments, but given that on his initial call with Santander the staff member he spoke to was 
able to make a transfer for him over the phone, it seems clear that there were other options 
available to him for transferring funds if he needed to. 
I also acknowledge what Mr S has said about call wait times when he rang Santander, and I 
appreciate that will have been frustrating, and may have put him off wanting to call back in 
future. But Santander explained in its final response letter why wait times are sometimes 
longer, and apologised for any inconvenience caused by the wait, and Im satisfied that was 
reasonable, I dont consider that this delay in Mr S call being dealt with warrants any specific 
compensation.
Lastly, Mr S has also commented on Santanders letter saying it was intending to make 
changes to how it charged for incoming calls. But as our Investigator noted, that is a 
business decision that Santander is entitled to make, so I wont be commenting on this 
further. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S, but while I agree that Santanders service 
here has fallen short in some aspects, Im satisfied that the £75 it has paid to him is 
appropriate compensation, so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman