DRN-3481373
The complaint
Miss H complains about mistakes Vodafone Limited (Vodafone) made when handling her 
account and about the impact on her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Vodafone made a couple of mistakes here. When Miss H called them, they didnt explain 
there was a separate payment being taken towards the fixed sum loan, as well as the airtime 
payment. That mistake led Miss H to ask the bank to reverse a couple of payments that had 
been made to her fixed sum loan agreement and that led to those missed payments being 
reported to her credit file. 
Vodafone were also wrong to attribute Miss Hs lump sum payment to the airtime account 
when it should have been put towards her fixed sum loan. That meant that she was 
contacted by debt collectors about the arrears on her account.
Vodafone paid Miss H £90 because theyd provided inaccurate information and a further 
£100 in vouchers because they had wrongly attributed the lump sum payment. Theyve also 
removed the late payment markers they reported to Miss Hs credit file. In the 
circumstances, I think that was fair redress for the problems experienced. 
I can understand Miss Hs concerns about her credit file, the reduced credit limit, and the 
rising cost of credit she said she faced as a result of the markers Vodafone placed on her 
file. But to hold Vodafone accountable for that Id have to be sure that it was those markers 
that had caused the issues and that Vodafone were wrong to place those markers on the 
credit file when they did. I dont think I have enough information to demonstrate the credit 
limit change and the increased cost of credit was as a result of those markers. The bank 
havent explained that was the case. And, regardless, when Vodafone initially reported the 
markers I cant say they were wrong to do so as Miss H refused to pay even when she was 
made aware of the two parallel contracts.
I understand that Miss H thinks the contract was mis-sold to her, but I dont think I have 
enough information to suggest that was the case. Miss H signed the fixed sum loan 
agreement and that in itself suggests she was made aware of the contract at the point of 
sale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman