DRN-3065572
The complaint
Mr F complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. The agreement matured in May 2021.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. MBFS advised Mr F that he was liable 
for damage charges.
Mr F disputed the charges. He said the only damage to the car was a small scratch on one 
of the headlights. He said the other damage hed been charged for had occurred during 
transit following the inspection.
MBFS didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said the charges had been applied fairly and in line 
with the vehicle returns standards.
Mr F was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed the damage and said the charges had been fairly applied apart 
from the charge relating to the dent to the LHR door, which he said should be cancelled. The 
investigator said he thought it was more likely that the damage had been caused whilst the 
car was in the possession of Mr F rather than after the inspection.
Mr F didnt agree. He referred to the photos and videos of the first inspection, which he said 
showed that the damage wasnt present.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr F must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection reports, including the photos and videos. Ive also had regard to 
the BVLRA guidelines and the vehicle returns standards.
The video of the first inspection isnt very clear, and I dont find it helpful in terms of 
determining whether there is damage which exceeds fair wear and tear. The weather at the 
time of the first inspection was wet, which has impacted on the quality of the video. I 
appreciate that Mr F doesnt think he should be prejudiced because of the poor quality of the 
video and Id like to reassure him that he hasnt been. I cant hold either party responsible for 
the weather conditions which have led to the poor quality of the video.
Ive looked at the photos from the second inspection. These are much clearer and are of 
more help in determining whether there is damage which exceeds fair wear and tear. 
Having looked at the photos, Im of the view that the damage identified exceeds fair wear 
and tear in accordance with the relevant guidelines and vehicle returns standards. This is 
with the exception of the LHR door. The photos dont show that the dent has a diameter of 
more than 13mm, nor can I see any damage to the paintwork. So, I dont think the damage 
falls outside the guidelines. Because of this, MBFS should remove the charge.
Ive taken account of what Mr F has said about the distance the car travelled after the first 
inspection. He thinks that damage was caused during this time. MBFS has explained that 
the car was taken to a national de-fleet centre after the first inspection. So, I think its 
understandable why some mileage has been covered. Theres no evidence that any of the 
damage was caused to the car in between the two inspections  the agent is under an 
obligation to report any incidents and none have been reported. Taking into account the 
nature and extent of the damage, I think its unlikely that such widespread damage occurred 
after collection of the car. Its more likely that the damage happened during the time the car 
was in Mr Fs possession.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im of the view that MBFS should remove the charge of £260 
for the dent to the LHR door. Im of the view that the rest of the charges have been fairly 
applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must remove the charge for the LHR door.
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman