DRN-4394625
The complaint
Miss F has complained about administrative errors made by Scottish Widows Limited in 
respect of her pension plan. 
What happened
Miss F has a personal pension plan with Scottish Widows. Miss F complained to Scottish 
Widows about mistakes she said theyd made in administering her pension.
In early October 2022, Miss F brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Miss F said that Scottish Widows had made mistakes on transactions and fund switches in 
her pension plan. Miss F also complained about Scottish Widows not collecting her monthly 
direct debit pension contributions correctly. Finally, Miss F had changed her mind on 
transferring a small fund into her Scottish Widows personal pension and shed complained 
that Scottish Widows had not reversed this transaction, as shed instructed.
In late October 2022 Scottish Widows issued their final response letter to the complaint Miss 
F had made to them. In their response Scottish Widows explained that they were undergoing 
a system upgrade, and as a result online access for Miss Fs pension plan had been 
removed for a short period of time. 
Scottish Widows went on to explain that they couldnt determine why there was a difference 
in information shown in their correspondence to Miss F and her online account. Scottish 
Widows also said theyd issued a letter to Miss F in early October 2022 which had provided 
up-to-date and accurate information on her pension plan. Scottish Widows went on to say 
that they would pay Miss F £100 in respect of the inconvenience that shed suffered due to 
these issues.
However, Miss F was not satisfied with Scottish Widows response to her complaint. Miss F 
therefore asked that the Financial Ombudsman Service continue with investigating her 
complaint.
One of our Investigators completed a review of Miss Fs complaint. They asked Scottish 
Widows for Miss Fs file, but no response was received so they issued their view in April 
2023. This view said that Scottish Widows should provide Miss F with a breakdown of her 
fund switches together with confirmation of how many units were purchased from the fund 
switches that Miss F had complained about. Scottish Widows should also correct the 
problem with Miss Fs direct debit payments and identify any potential loss that Miss F had 
suffered.
Finally, the Investigator said that Scottish Widows should give Miss F an update on the 
transfer reversal that she had instructed.
In May 2023, Scottish Widows responded to the Investigators view. Scottish Widows said 
that theyd been told by Miss F in March 2023 that she no longer wanted to continue with her 
direct debit so Scottish Widows said that they would not take any further action on this single 
element of Miss Fs complaint.
However, in recognition of the poor service that they had provided to Miss F, Scottish 
Widows said that they had paid compensation of £500 to her. Scottish Widows also sent 
Miss F a transaction history for her pension plan and said theyd resolve her issues.
 
The complaint that Miss F had brought to this service in early October 2022 was closed in 
late May 2023. 
In July 2023 Miss F brought a new complaint to the Financial Services Ombudsman. Miss F 
said that not all of the issues raised in her complaint of October 2022 had been resolved by 
Scottish Widows. 
Miss F said that she had sent an email to Scottish Widows on 25 June 2023 which had set 
out details of the unresolved issues she still had with her personal pension, but she hadnt 
received a reply to her concerns. Miss F also said that the transaction history that Scottish 
Widows had previously sent to her contained details of approximately 6,000 transactions.
In August 2023 Miss F said that online access to her pension plan had been restored, but 
the other outstanding issues she had were still unresolved.
Miss Fs new complaint was allocated to one of our Investigators, who then contacted 
Scottish Widows to ask for Miss Fs file so that they could then investigate her complaint. 
The Investigator chased Scottish Widows for the file, but no response was received.
In mid-September 2023 the Investigator issued their view on Miss Fs complaint. The 
Investigator sent a copy of Miss Fs email of 25 June 2023 to Scottish Widows with their 
view. 
The Investigator concluded that Miss F had not been treated fairly by Scottish Widows. They 
said that to put things right Scottish Widows should revisit the issues that Miss F had 
highlighted in her 25 June 2023 email and provide her with a full response to these issues. 
The Investigator also said that Scottish Widows should pay Miss F £250 compensation for 
the ongoing distress and inconvenience that shed suffered due to their errors.
In September 2023 Miss F responded to the Investigators view and said that she had still 
not received any response to the queries that shed raised with Scottish Widows in June 
2023. Miss F also said that she thought compensation of £250 was not enough given the 
time that she had spent trying to resolve matters with Scottish Widows. Miss F was also 
concerned that the issues that she had with Scottish Widows remained unresolved. 
Scottish Widows also responded to our Investigators view to say that they accepted what 
the Investigator had said.
As Miss F hadnt accepted the Investigators view this complaint has been brought to an 
Ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F has complained about poor service that she has received from Scottish Widows.
Scottish Widows has acknowledged that they did provide poor service to Miss F and 
accepted our Investigators view that they should now pay Miss F £250 in compensation for 
the ongoing distress and inconvenience that shes suffered due to their failings. Scottish 
Widows has also accepted the Investigators view that they should respond to the issues that 
Miss F set out in her email to them sent on 25 June 2023.
I therefore dont think that there is any dispute that Miss F has not been treated fairly by 
Scottish Widows, or that Scottish Widows should now put things right for her.
However, Miss F has not accepted the Investigators view that Scottish Widows should pay 
her £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that she suffered because of 
Scottish Widows errors.
Miss F has said that she thinks that level of compensation does not adequately reflect the 
time that she has spent trying to resolve her complaint with Scottish Widows, nor does it 
reflect the overall timescale that her complaint with Scottish Widows has been going on for. 
Miss F thinks that a compensation payment of £500 more accurately reflects the 
inconvenience that shes suffered due to Scottish Widows errors.
Miss Fs previous complaint against Scottish Widows was closed in May 2023 and Scottish 
Widows had paid Mrs F £500 for the inconvenience that shed suffered due to their errors.
Therefore, in considering any amount of compensation which would be fair and reasonable 
in this complaint, I think that it would only be appropriate to consider the errors made by 
Scottish Widow after her previous complaint was closed in May 2023.
I think that a payment of £500, in line with what Miss F is seeking, might be fair where the 
impact of Scottish Widows mistakes has caused her considerable distress, upset and worry, 
or significant inconvenience and disruption that needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
Typically, the impact of Scottish Widows errors would last over many weeks or months.
I have however not seen any evidence to show that the errors made by Scottish Widows 
which relate to the complaint that she brought to this service in July 2023 would warrant this 
level of compensation.
I fully appreciate and understand that Miss F has suffered inconvenience and distress due to 
Scottish Widows errors and she has had to spend time trying to resolve the issues shes 
raised with them. However, taking all of this into account I think that, on balance, a 
compensation payment of £250 would be fair and reasonable in respect of this complaint.
Putting things right
I think that a fair outcome for Miss F is for Scottish Widows to now resolve the outstanding 
issues that Miss F raised with them in her email of 25 June 2023. Scottish Widows has admitted the errors made and has been aware of Miss Fs concerns 
since late June 2023. Miss F remains concerned that these issues remain unresolved. I 
therefore think it reasonable and fair for Scottish Widows to have resolved Miss Fs concerns 
within four weeks from the date of this decision.
I also think that Scottish Widows should pay Miss F £250 compensation in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience that their errors have caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint against Scottish Widows Limited and 
that Scottish Widows Limited should compensate Miss F, and put things right for her, as I 
have detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman