DRN-4022508
The complaint
Miss S has complained about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmeads) handling of her 
property insurance claim. In particular shes unhappy with the payment Fairmead has made 
to cover her loss of rent.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 1 March 2023, explaining why I was not intending to 
uphold this complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
On 18 October 2019, Miss S made a claim on her buildings insurance policy for 
water damage caused to her property by a leaking pipe.
Miss S surveyors prepared a report on the condition of the property following the 
escape of water from a cold-water supply pipe in November 2019. The report 
observed that large quantities of water had soaked up into the building, saturating 
floors and walls to the left- hand side of the property. Recommendations were made 
in relation to the strip-out and drying of the property.
A leak detection survey was carried out on 18 November 2019 by a company who Ill 
refer to as A. They observed that as well as water / moisture wicking up walls in 
affected rooms it had also travelled horizontally under the floor coverings in the 
shower room, lounge, hall, dining room and kitchen. They recommended that drying 
and strip-out works should be carried out to affected areas, to reduce the possibility 
of secondary damage.
A number of complaints were made on Miss S behalf, by her loss assessor 
throughout the period the claim has been ongoing. However, it was only after the 
April 2022 final response letter was issued by Fairmead, that Miss S loss assessor 
referred the complaint to this service, on 8 June 2022. The April 2022 final response 
letter addressed Miss S concerns from January 2021 onwards. The key complaint 
point addressed in the final response letter, and which Miss S has referred to this 
service, was about Fairmeads refusal to make any payment for loss of rent, for the 
period from August 2021 to September 2022. So, it is that complaint which is the 
subject of this provisional decision.
While the parties have highlighted actions on the part of the other, that have 
contributed to the poor handling of this claim, dating back to 2019, I will only be 
considering and/or commenting on those actions, insofar as they impact on the 
outcome of Miss S current complaint.
Our investigator looked into Miss S concerns and issued a view upholding the 
complaint. She summarised the delays that had occurred in settling the claim and 
concluded that Fairmead should pay 60% of the further loss of rent claimed for, 
together with 8% simple interest.
Miss S loss assessor didnt accept our investigators view. He sent a response which 
re- stated his views on why he believes Fairmead is responsible for the delays in 
settling the claim, and so should pay the full loss of rent payment. He also asked that 
our investigator consider the claim in its entirety.
Fairmead also didnt accept our investigators view. It explained that its loss adjuster 
feels strongly that the loss of rent payment made, is fair, which Fairmead agrees 
with. In their view Miss S loss assessor was responsible for the delays.
Both parties have requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There has been extensive background to this complaint as the claim and complaint 
have been ongoing for several years. While Ive considered all of the evidence and 
arguments provided, I wont be commenting on every event or dispute thats arisen 
during that time. Instead, Ill focus only on the issues and delays which I believe are 
key to delivering a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as 
a discourtesy to the parties, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, and 
my role within it.
Fairmead is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of its loss adjuster. As Fairmead have accepted they are 
accountable for the actions of the loss adjuster, any reference to Fairmead includes 
the actions of the loss adjuster.
Similarly, Miss S loss assessor has acted as her appointed representative in relation 
to the claim and this complaint. So, any action, or inaction on the part of Miss S loss 
assessor is attributable to Miss S.
Before I give my reasons for not upholding this complaint, there are a few preliminary 
matters that I think need to be addressed.
First, Miss S loss assessor has asked that Miss S claim is considered in its entirety. 
However, as the complaint was only brought to our service within six months of the 
April 2022 final response letter, Im only able to consider Miss S complaint about her 
claim for loss of rent which was addressed in that letter. If Miss S is unhappy with 
other aspects of the claim, then she first needs to make that complaint to Fairmead, 
so it has the opportunity to provide a response. If Miss S remains dissatisfied with 
Fairmeads response she could then look to refer the complaint to our service.
Second, where an insurance claim covers only some of the works required to repair 
the damage, the claim can be more complex to settle. In this case, the re-routing of 
the underground pipe and related repairs were not covered by the policy but would 
have had an impact on whether the property remained habitable and for how long. As 
those works were uninsured, and so for the cost of Miss S, it was at her sole 
discretion as to whether or not, and when, she elected to excavate the kitchen floor 
or reroute the pipe (as advised by A). Its my view that some of the decisions made 
by Miss S (albeit on the advice of her loss assessor and surveyor) regarding the 
uninsured works likely contributed to the delays in settling the claim, and the 
deterioration of the state of the property while the claim was ongoing.Lastly, as the evidence on which this issue rests, is largely comprised of submissions 
from each party as to why, in their opinion, the other is responsible for the delays, 
unsurprisingly the evidence is somewhat contradictory. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I make my decision based on what I think 
more likely than not is the case, on the basis of the evidence available and the 
surrounding circumstances.
In considering whether Fairmead has fairly settled Miss S loss of rent claim, Ive first 
considered the relevant terms and conditions of the policy. 
Paragraph 6 of Section 2 of the policy, which covers additional benefits for buildings, 
sets out the terms relating to claims for loss of rent. It says that if the home is 
damaged by an insured peril covered by the policy, and as a result cannot be lived in, 
Fairmead will pay loss of rent due to the policy holder, which they are unable to 
recover, until the home is ready to be lived in.
Section 3 of the policy then goes on to explain the conditions that must be complied 
with by the policyholder. In paragraph 10 it says the policyholder must take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage. It also says the 
property must be maintained in good condition and explains that the policy does not 
cover wear and tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of time.
In summary, loss of rent is payable for the period in which the property is not able to 
be lived in. And the policy includes conditions which require the policyholder to take 
all reasonable steps to preserve and maintain the state of the property. Generally, 
insurers aim to include conditions in the policy terms and conditions that encourage 
policyholders to act in ways that will help to minimise the risk of damage occurring (or 
as in this case, worsening), i.e. to act reasonably and not allow things to go wrong.
In Miss S case a cash settlement was ultimately agreed to settle the claim. So, after 
the settlement was agreed, it was within Miss S control as to when the repair works 
would be carried out and the property would be habitable again. It therefore wouldnt 
be reasonable for me to require Fairmead to pay loss of rent until such time as the 
property actually became habitable again. So, in deciding whether Fairmead has 
fairly settled Miss S claim for loss of rent, Ive considered how long the works have 
taken, how long they ought reasonably to have taken, and who was responsible for 
the relevant delays.
Miss S loss assessor, has highlighted several periods of time where he believes 
delays were caused by the loss adjuster not communicating promptly nor authorising 
the payment of funds promptly. He has also included in his list of delays caused by 
the loss adjuster, matters such as: requesting alternative quotes be obtained from 
contractors; taking time to consider the quotes; assessing the tender documents, 
tenders and scope of works; and challenging duplicate requests for payments. In my 
view these are reasonable actions for a loss adjuster to take when overseeing a 
claim, particularly in relation to a large and complex loss such as this. Nonetheless, I 
will consider the impact of delays where it has taken longer than it should have done, 
for a response to be given on behalf of Fairmead.
While the claim was first notified to Fairmead in October 2019, in was nearly two and 
a half years later, in April 2022, that a drying certificate for the property was finally 
provided. At the same time, a cash settlement for the repair works was also agreed. 
So, in considering the overall progression of the claim, Ive first considered the 
timeline of events in relation to the drying of the property. Ive next considered the 
timeline of events which relate to the agreement of the cash settlement offer.Drying of the property
From the earliest reports it was clear that the fabric of the building was extremely 
saturated by the leaking pipe. The report by Miss S surveyor, B, dated 18 November 
2019, said that approximately four weeks prior, the water company had discovered 
significant water loss, likely near the point where the water main enters the property. 
They said the water leak equated to approximately 180,000 litres of water per week 
which was being absorbed into the property construction and surrounding site.
B recommended that the fixtures and fittings be stripped out of the affected areas, 
including the kitchen and bathroom, so that a drying regime could be introduced and 
the property dried. B explained that once the exposure was completed, a further 
inspection needed to be made to confirm that no additional stripping out work was 
required, and a drying regime should be undertaken until the property is certified dry. 
Then, once drying had commenced, a repair specification should be prepared and 
submitted to allow the reinstatement works to be undertaken. B concluded that the 
property could not be considered habitable during the works and must be vacant 
before the works commenced.
A leak detection survey was also carried out on 18 November 2019, by A who 
observed that as well as water / moisture wicking up walls in affected rooms it had 
also travelled horizontally under the floor coverings in the shower room, lounge, hall, 
dining room and kitchen. A recommended drying and strip-out works to affected 
areas, to reduce the possibility of secondary damage, following re-route of water 
supply from an external meter.
A also recommended installation of drying equipment to minimise any further 
damage. Having considered the extent of the saturation of the property, I think a 
common-sense approach would have led to stripping out and drying works being 
carried out and completed much sooner than they were. However, as I will explain, 
by reference to the timeline below, the strip-out and drying of the property took 
approximately two years and six months to conclude.
Although drying times can vary, it should be possible to dry most properties within 
four weeks, unless its a particularly large or complex loss. This claim was for a large 
and complex loss, so the drying time would understandably be longer. But even with 
the need to dry the property in stages, two years and six months seems to be a 
particularly protracted period of time.
Ive summarised the timeline of the drying and strip-out works, below. 
In brief, the claim was first notified in October 2019 to Fairmead. The first strip-out 
works commenced at the end of June 2020, eight months later. Six months later, on 
19 January 2021, further strip-out works were completed, which took one day (and 
which Miss S surveyor says followed a 20-week delay on the part of that contractor). 
In March 2021, concerned at how long it was taking Miss S to dry out the property, 
Fairmeads loss adjuster arranged for a further scope of works to be completed by 
their contractor, M, in relation to the strip-out and drying out of the property. In May 
2021, Miss S surveyor asked Miss S loss assessor to arrange for drying work to be 
completed (four months later). In April 2022, a drying certificate was provided for the 
property, 30 months after the claim was first made.
After the tenants vacated the property in June 2020, Fairmead made loss of rent 
payments to Miss S for the whole property. There was a three-month delay on 
Fairmeads part in paying for strip-out works, between September and December 2020. Otherwise, on the basis of the information available, I dont think Fairmead was 
responsible for any other delays regarding the strip-out and drying out of the property 
from when the tenants vacated the property.
By contrast, after the initial strip-out works were completed in June / July 2020, a 
further six months passed, before further strip-out works were completed. Then a 
further six months passed until July 2021, when Fairmeads loss adjuster said that no 
further progress appeared to have been made. So, from June / July 2020 to July 
2021, one days work appears to have been carried out regarding the strip-out and 
drying of the property (on 19 January 2021) to progress the claim.
On the basis of the available information, I think the strip-out and drying out works 
could have been completed within say, three months. Taking account of the three-
month delay in paying strip-out costs to Miss S, in December 2020, I think its fair for 
Fairmead to have paid Miss S six months loss of rent payments to cover this period.
Agreement of the cash settlement offer
There are four aspects of the progression of the claim which I think have contributed 
to the overall delay in settling the claim. Ill address these under the following 
headings: 1. Delay in preparing specification for reinstatement works; 2. 
Disagreement over items included in the reinstatement schedule; 3. Delays in 
relation to loss of rent payments; and 4. Delays in agreeing the cash settlement 
amount. 
1. Delay in preparing specification for reinstatement works
From the outset of the claim, Miss S surveyor said he couldnt prepare a scheme for 
reinstatement works until the strip-out works had been fully undertaken. He also said 
it wasnt accepted practice to carry out drying of the property whilst saturated 
materials that are to be stripped out, remain in situ as it would increase the drying 
time and the cost of necessary plant and machinery. On 23 July 2020, Miss S loss 
assessor told Fairmeads loss adjuster that the property was empty and once strip-
out was done, a schedule of reinstatement would be prepared. Nearly a year later, 
Fairmeads loss adjuster was still awaiting that schedule.
While I can understand why Miss S surveyor preferred to prepare the reinstatement 
schedule of works after the strip-out and drying of the property had completed, in this 
case, where that took more than two years, I think an alternative approach could 
have been considered, to try and move the claim forward.
2. Disagreement over items included in the reinstatement schedule
Disagreement over what was included in the reinstatement schedule that was sent 
out for tender, also lead to delays in progressing the claim. From the outset 
Fairmeads loss adjuster had said the kitchen cabinets needed to be removed and 
stored in such a way so they could be reused. However, it appears, to save cost, 
they were stored at the property and deteriorated. Debate over what would or 
wouldnt be covered by the claim, in relation to the kitchen, continued into 
October 2021.
On 6 October 2021 Miss S surveyor emailed Miss S loss assessor to say that the 
amendments advised by Fairmeads loss adjuster were not disregarded by him, but 
he preferred to consider them as a request rather than an instruction. He said that 
just because Fairmeads loss adjuster didnt agree with his observations in respect of the kitchen installation and various other issues doesnt mean that they are incorrect. 
His duty of care is to Miss S and thats why he had chosen to leave various items 
within the specification as in his opinion they should be part of the claim.
I think this approach to the preparation of the repair specification also contributed to 
the delays in progressing the claim. It was a legitimate part of the loss adjusters role 
to establish the policyholders true loss and ensure that was all that was being 
claimed for, and ultimately paid for, by the insurer. So, it was more than an opinion 
being expressed by the loss adjuster, it was a direction as to what would and 
wouldnt be covered by the insurer under the policy terms.
3. Delays in relation to loss of rent payments
Miss S loss adjuster has also referred, throughout his submissions, to delays relating 
to payments for loss of rent, on Fairmeads part. He believes that those delays, in 
turn, caused the delays in drying the property and agreeing the cash settlement. 
However, I dont agree. The loss of rent element of the claim didnt need to be 
agreed before the claim for repair to damage caused by the insured peril could be 
agreed. As Ive explained, a number of requests for payment were made throughout 
this period for strip-out and drying out works. And it was those payments that ought 
to have funded the works they were claimed for. So, delays in agreeing loss of rent 
payments shouldnt reasonably have delayed the strip-out and drying of the property 
when specific payments were made by the insurers for those works.
4. Delays in agreeing the cash settlement amount
On 21 October 2021, Fairmeads loss adjuster wrote to Miss S loss assessor to ask 
whether Miss S would consider a cash settlement. He explained that the tender 
documents were with the insurers who had raised a number of questions as Miss S 
surveyors had not included the changes requested by Fairmeads loss adjuster prior 
to tenders being obtained, which further delayed matters. He suggested the insurers 
might reject the tenders as stated, because they didnt represent what is considered 
to be the true loss. He explained that the price fluctuation clause wouldnt be agreed 
as the tenders were submitted on a fixed price. He also said that Miss S surveyor 
had been informed that no works to the kitchen units would be considered that are 
required as a result of poor storage, and a request for such payments would be 
rejected.
On 8 November 2021, Fairmeads loss adjuster chased Miss S loss assessor for a 
response to the suggestion of a cash settlement. More than three months later, on 
24 February 2022, Miss S loss assessor said he was on the way to see Miss S with 
the cash settlement proposal. Just over a week later, Miss S loss assessor informed 
Fairmeads loss adjuster that Miss S wouldnt make a decision about the cash 
settlement until the loss of rent claim had been considered.
In April 2022, a cash settlement was agreed with Miss S in lieu of repair based on a 
reduced tender sum to align the repairs with the loss adjusters view of required 
works and to remove items that were damaged due to poor storage by the contractor. 
A drying certificate was also finally received by April 2022.
At that time Fairmeads loss adjuster again confirmed that the loss of rent claim was 
rejected beyond the end of July 2021. 
On the basis of the available information, and for the reasons detailed above, I think 
the delays in agreeing the cash settlement amount were not caused by the action or inaction of Fairmead or its loss adjuster.
Was the payment for loss of rent fair and reasonable in the circumstances?
On balance, for the reasons detailed above, I think the drying out and strip-out works 
could have reasonably been completed within six months. With regard to a 
reasonable time for the repair works to be completed, the tender report prepared by 
Miss S surveyor suggested that the repair works could have been completed within a 
15-week period, so, approximately four months.
It follows that in fairly settling Miss S loss of rent claim, Fairmead ought to have 
covered approximately ten months loss of rent. 
Miss S has said that when the property was fully let, she received monthly rent 
payments of £3,147 per month. In paying £53,053.67 to Miss S in settlement of her 
claim for loss of rent, Fairmead has covered approximately 16 and a half months 
rent. 
I concluded that, in the circumstances, Fairmead had fairly settled Miss S claim for loss of 
rent and I explained that I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. 
I asked the parties to let me have any final arguments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before issuing this final decision. Fairmead didnt provide any further comment, 
however, Miss S representative provided comments which I will address below under the 
heading What Ive decided  and why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Ive reviewed the further submissions and supporting evidence provided by Miss S loss 
assessor. However, they havent caused me to come to a different conclusion to that 
detailed in my provisional decision. 
Miss S loss assessor has repeated a number of the points already made, about delays in 
payments being made by the loss adjusters, and delays in communication during the earlier 
part of the claim. Ive already provided my comments on those points in the provisional 
decision so wont repeat them again here.
In addition, Mr S loss assessor has clarified that it wasnt a drying certificate that was 
provided in April 2022, rather, it was an invoice from the drying contractor. However, the loss 
adjuster confirmed in his April 2022 report to the insurers that a drying certificate had been 
received, so, on balance, I remain of the view that it was likely received on or around that 
time.
Lastly, Miss S loss assessor said that the asbestos testing that needed to be carried out, 
and inactivity on the part of the loss adjusters and insurers, were key issues that delayed the 
drying out of the property. These points have also been addressed in the provisional 
decision. The loss assessors further comments havent led me to change the conclusions 
Ive reached regarding the drying of the property.
In summary, the points raised by Miss S loss assessor largely relate to matters Ive already addressed in the provisional decision. As no new information or arguments have been 
provided for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my 
provisional decision. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in this decision and the provisional decision included above, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman