DRN-2722534
The complaint
 Miss R, who is represented by her mother, complains that RCI Financial Services Limited 
refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Miss R acquired a car that was some three years old and had a recorded mileage of 2,566. 
Her mother says the mileage was queried and she was told the car had been used as a 
demonstrator. The dealer has since told us that it had been bought in a batch direct from the 
manufacturer. The cars mileage was unusually low and I can see that it may have been 
assumed that it had been used as a demonstrator. That said I have no reason to doubt Mrs 
Hs recollection of events.
The car suffered a number of faults in the time Miss R has had the car and some of those 
have been surprising given the age and recorded mileage. It is possible that they may have 
arisen due to the cars actual mileage being greater than shown.
While I can understand the frustration experienced by Miss R with the number of ongoing 
faults many of these were addressed by the dealer. I agree that not all were covered by the 
warranty and a major issue arose shortly after the warranty expired. I can see why our 
investigator reached her original conclusion that there was insufficient evidence to show the 
faults were present at the point of sale.
However, the independent report commissioned by Mrs H has raised a more fundamental 
matter. The inspector has concluded that the recorded mileage is incorrect and the car has 
suffered some damage which had been repaired. His report states:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that from the evidence 
found at the time of our inspection, the vehicles engine control unit was registering the 
current vehicle mileage at 36990 miles. The vehicles speedo was showing 20964 miles. 
This is a difference of 16000 miles. It does appear that the vehicles mileage has been 
 tampered with in some form.
The vehicle also displayed some frontal impact damage repairs. A video was shown to us 
dated 08/09/19 showing the front panel being a red/orangey colour. We do suspect that the 
vehicle has been mis-sold and has been subject to accident damage repairs and also 
mileage tampering.
That would clearly suggest that the car was mis-sold due to the mileage being significantly 
understated and it possibly having been repaired at some point. 
It has also emerged that much of the paperwork and official documentation had the wrong 
VIN recorded. This came to light when Miss R had some repairs carried out by a third party 
garage and no record could be found of the cars history. I am satisfied that an error was 
made at some point before the car was sold. 
RCI has since supplied a report carried out in 2017. The report is dated 5/9/2017 and this 
was after the car had been sold to Miss R. RCI says that this is misleading and the inspector 
most probably used the American style of writing the date. The report is brief seems to have 
recorded any obvious damage. There is no reference to it being test driven or any check 
being carried out on the mileage. I also note the inspection took place at a fleet management 
companys premises and one has to wonder about the cars actual history.
I am satisfied that the independent report carried out by a qualified inspector showing the 
erroneous mileage and the apparent damage are accurate and that leads me to the 
conclusion that Miss R is entitled to reject the car.
She has use of it despite the various faults she has had to deal with and it is only right that 
she pays for that use. Our investigator has suggested that she pay 80% of her monthly 
payments made to date and I consider this to be fair. I believe it covers her use of the car 
and also recognises the issues she has had to deal with.
Putting things right
 Miss R should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further owed and collect the vehicle at no 
cost to Miss R,
refund the deposit paid at the point of sale,
refund 20% of the monthly payments made by Miss R,
refund the costs incurred due to the repairs that Miss R incurred as follows: £1,300 
for the timing chain (RCI has paid £300 towards this cost already) and £343.08 for 
other repairs, 
refund the £264.00 cost for the inspection report,
Pay 8% annual simple interest need to be applied to all the above refunds from the 
date of the payment till the date repaid,
remove any adverse information on Miss Rs credit file. The credit file should be 
marked as settled in full, or something similar, and should not show as early 
termination,
pay her compensation for the trouble and upset caused of £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman