DRN-3374763
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that Clydesdale Bank Plc has administered his mortgage.
What happened
In 2013, Mr H took out a mortgage with Clydesdale. In May 2017, he asked it to switch 
his mortgage to a fixed rate of 1.69% for 26 months. But the switch did not occur. And Mr 
Hs mortgage was put on Clydesdales standard variable rate (SVR). That meant the 
payments were £2,304.91 per month instead of £1,638.69.
Mr H suffered a serious accident soon after he asked for the rate to be switched.
Clydesdale said it required a signed acceptance to switch the interest rate product. But 
it never received it. Mr Hs representative said that it was returned.
Nevertheless, Clydesdale agreed to re-work the account as if the rate had been switched 
as requested. The mortgage was repaid in 2021.
Mr H complains that Clydesdale:
Didnt switch him to a new interest rate product as had been agreed.
Moved thousands of pounds from his account without his consent. After initially 
denying this the bank accepted it had made an error.
Sent the final response to the above complaint to the wrong address  so he has 
never received it along with breaching his confidentiality and exposing him to risk.
Made multiple administration errors, including sharing his personal data without his 
consent that have caused him large financial losses, which have caused him 
chronic anxiety, stress and worry.
Sent him messages threatening to repossess his home.
Unfairly applied legal and arrears fees.
Made it impossible for him and his attorney to manage his finances and causing him
difficulty with other creditors.
Failed to recognise a valid power of attorney and would only communicate through its 
financial care team, which limited the attorneys ability to manage the account 
properly.
Recorded adverse information on his credit file in error.
Sent confidential information to the wrong address
Hasnt provided the information and call recordings he has asked for as part of a 
subject access request.
Refused to offer Mr H assistance during the Covid pandemic.
I issued a provisional decision, subject to any further submissions. My provisional findings, 
which form part of this decision were:
Rate switch
Its not clear that Clydesdale made an error in not switching the interest rate. It needed Mr 
H to sign that he accepted its offer. But I dont consider it handled this matter in a fair or 
reasonable way.
It knew that Mr H had been in a life changing accident in January 2018. It also ought to 
have known he had applied for a fixed rate in May 2017 that had not been applied to his 
account  and that his representative would not have known about it at that stage. And it 
knew Mr Hs circumstances and that he was in arrears  so it ought to have considered a 
rate switch in any event. I think Clydesdale should have backdated the rate sooner than it 
did.
As I understand it, it wasnt until January 2019 that Clydesdale agreed to reconstruct 
the account using the fixed rate. This was the right thing for it to do  although it should 
have done that earlier.
Ultimately Clydesdale should have reconstructed the mortgage as if the interest rate was 
switched to the fixed rate in July 2017.As far as I can see, the position of the account 
reflects that. As far as I can see the total payments made from July 2017 were less than 
what was due  and there were several months with no payments at all. It seems likely that 
it is correct to say the mortgage was in arrears. That is to say that even if the interest rate 
had been switched and the payments were lower, it seems likely the payments would not 
have been made in full.
One of Mr Hs points is that by being on the SVR it had a knock-on effect on his 
finances. I havent seen any evidence of that. If Mr H feels he can prove that the 
increased payments caused him difficulty, then he will need to provide evidence to 
support that.
In any case, I think that Clydesdale could have handled this matter better than it did. There 
were opportunities to switch to the fixed rate sooner once it was aware of Mr Hs accident. I 
have taken that into account in my award below.
Arrears and fees
As things stand, it appears that the mortgage would always have been in arrears, even if 
the rate had been correctly switched in July 2017. 
Even if Clydesdale had switched the rate earlier, it would have been required under 
the relevant rules to contact Mr H regarding the arrears. I havent seen any evidence 
that the communication was inappropriate.
Nor is there any evidence to show that Clydesdale applied any arrears fees.
Credit fileClydesdale said it amended Mr Hs credit file in line with the reconstruction of the account 
as set out above. Bearing in mind my findings, it seems correct to record arrears and late 
payments. I have not seen any evidence of any specific errors.
Power of attorney
Clydesdale has told us that its systems prevent a power of attorney being recorded on all 
its systems. It said it took steps to address that by making a note on its systems. And I 
can see it has engaged with Mr Hs representative. That has not always been the case 
though. We have evidence where Clydesdale refused to discuss the account with the 
representative, despite having a valid power of attorney.
When we asked Clydesdale if the power of attorney it held allowed the representative 
to discuss the account, it said:
I have not been able to get a substantive answer to your query. I suspect that this should 
be sufficient for [the representative] to discuss Mr Hs request.
That is an unusual reply from a regulated financial business in response to what should be 
a straightforward question. If a complaints department is unable to answer such a 
question from our service it tends to support what Mr Hs representative has said. He has 
set out in a persuasive way some of the difficulties he has encountered. I have taken how 
this affected Mr H into account in my award below. While I accept this made it more 
difficult on occasion for Mr Hs representative to discuss the account, the evidence does 
not support that it was impossible for him to do so. There is evidence to show that 
Clydesdale communicated meaningfully with Mr Hs representative and wrote to him.
Confidentiality
I have not seen any evidence that Mr Hs personal details were shared without his consent.
Clydesdale has provided evidence that it only held one address for Mr H. I have not 
seen any evidence that it sent any correspondence to the wrong address.
Subject access request
Clydesdale has accepted that it delayed issuing a response to Mr Hs subject access 
response  largely it appears because of issues related to its administration of the power 
attorney. Mr H would need to complain to the Information Commissioners Office about any 
failure by Clydesdale to comply with its obligations. But I have taken account the delay in my 
award below.
Consent to let
I can see that Mr Hs representative discussed the possibility of Clydesdale agreeing to Mr 
H letting his property. We have evidence to show that Clydesdale told him what he needed 
to do. But I cant see this was progressed by Mr H or his representative.
Covid payment deferral
This complaint was made before the start of the pandemic. We havent investigated this 
point and dont have enough information to do so from either Mr H or Clydesdale. So I will 
not be addressing this point here.
ConclusionI accept that Clydesdale has not always treated Mr H or his representative fairly and 
reasonably. I note that Mr H is the eligible complainant here. I dont have the power to 
make any award to his representative. But I accept that the impact on Mr Hs 
representative is likely to have had some impact on his own distress and inconvenience in 
relation to this matter.
Mr H was caused distress and inconvenience because Clydesdale didnt take reasonable 
steps to identify his vulnerability. If it had I think overall, it should have identified the issue 
with the rate switch sooner than it did. And it has made resolving that issue less 
straightforward than it could have been  it took over six months from Mr Hs 
representative identifying the issue in October 2018 until April 2019 for it be resolved 
fully.
Mr H has been caused distress and inconvenience by the issue with the rate going on for 
much longer than it should have, the failure to always recognise the power of attorney and 
the delay in providing the subject access request. I understand what he has told us about 
the impact on his mental health. Although Im afraid that we do not have sufficient evidence 
to say that it has caused him losses of over £100,000 or that it meant that he had to 
sacrifice other things in his life because of what happened.
In saying that I accept that Mr H was vulnerable, this matter has gone on over a number of 
years, he has spent a considerable amount of time on this matter and I dont consider the 
bank has dealt with him or his representative as sensitively as it could have. Although, I 
note that the bank has extended forbearance to Mr H in relation to the arrears on the 
mortgage.
Looking at everything I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to pay Mr H
£750 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to him  particularly 
in view of his vulnerability, the impact on his mental health and the length of time this 
matter has being going on for. I understand Clydesdale has already paid Mr H £300  that 
can be deducted from the total amount.
I proposed that Clydesdale should pay Mr H £450 in addition to the £300 it has already paid 
him for any distress and inconvenience. 
Clydesdale accepted my provisional decision. Mr H or his representative didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new submissions, I see no reason to reach a different outcome than I 
did in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons set out above.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay Mr H £450 for any distress and inconvenience  in addition 
to the £300 it has already paid Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ken RoseOmbudsman