DRN-4258543
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Equals Money UK Limited trading as Card One Money (COM) wont 
refund money he lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mr K used his COM card to make a series of deposits with an online casino over six months 
totalling around £34,000. That casino wasnt licensed in the U.K. He amassed £20,027 in his 
casino account, but when he tried to withdraw the funds he was met with delays and 
excuses. 
Mr K says he was the victim of a scam and should be reimbursed by COM  either under the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) or by way of the 
chargeback scheme. He reported the casino to the relevant authorities but they said they 
couldnt look into the specifics of his complaint or help him recover his money. 
COM refused to provide a refund. It said that it was satisfied Mr K had authorised the activity 
and it didnt have grounds to challenge the payments through the chargeback scheme. 
An Investigator also didnt recommend Mr K be reimbursed. They thought that a dispute 
raised through the chargeback scheme wouldnt have been successful. And, though they 
accepted that COM should have monitored Mr Ks account for unusual activity, they also 
thought that had it intervened and questioned the payments it wouldnt have prevented Mr 
Ks loss.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that the payments were not marked as gambling transactions, he 
hadnt received a call from COM to confirm any of the activity and, if he had, he would have 
said that he didnt recognise the names of the recipients.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn about whats happened to Mr K but I dont think COM is responsible for his 
loss. Ill explain why.
Theres no general obligation on a firm to refund transactions which have taken place as a 
result of a scam. And, in law, the starting position is that the account holder is responsible for 
transactions theyve carried out themselves (and theres no dispute that Mr K carried out 
these transactions).
As our Investigator has set out, COM arent a signatory of the CRM Code and it, in any case, 
does not cover payments made by card. But I consider it to be a matter of good industry 
practice for COM to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions to 
(among other things) help protect its customers from financial harm from fraud.
The activity Ive seen on Mr Ks statement appears, unsurprisingly, to be consistent with 
gambling. That said, the payments were very frequent and amounted to a significant sum 
over several months. I think that by late August 2021, the frequency and rapidity of the 
payments ought to have prompted COM to make enquiries of Mr K.  But, had it done that, 
Im not persuaded his loss would have been prevented. 
I cant be sure whether the casino is operating as a scam. Its clearly unlicensed and, I 
understand, shouldnt be offering its services to customers in the U.K. I also note that other 
users have reported being unable to withdraw funds and, of course, Mr K was not able to 
withdraw his own winnings either. Though I note COMs comments about the withdrawal 
restrictions in the terms and conditions, it doesnt appear that Mr K has even been able to 
withdraw the limited sums permitted by those terms.  On the balance of probabilities, I think 
its likely that the casino is a scam, despite the fact it appears to be still operating.
But that doesnt necessarily mean that COM would have been able to identify the casino was 
operating fraudulently. Had it intervened and questioned the payments in August 2021, Mr K 
wouldnt yet have had any issues withdrawing funds. I also cant see that there was much in 
the public domain to suggest the casino was operating fraudulently at that time. There are 
negative reviews of the casino on a well-known review website, but they werent posted until 
after August 2021. And, a number of other (very dubious) websites appear to be promoting 
the casino. 
Its also important to note that, in my experience, scams involving fraudulent casinos arent 
at all common. Thats likely to be because there are huge numbers of legitimate casinos 
online, correctly licensed in the U.K., many of which are household names, which offer the 
same services (or very similar services) without the risk of fraud. 
So, I wouldnt necessarily expect COM to be alive to this specific risk. It would have (for 
many of the transactions) simply seen payments going to gambling related merchants. And, 
it doesnt appear that Mr K had asked COM to block any gambling related transactions (as 
many of the recipients had this merchant category code)  so I dont think it would have 
found this concerning.
I wouldnt have expected COMs enquiries to go beyond establishing the nature of the 
payments and that Mr K was willingly making them. It should have also given a warning 
broadly covering various scam risks. But, given the unusual nature of this scam, I cant see 
that any of those enquiries would have made a difference to Mr Ks decision to go ahead. I 
dont think it reasonably ought to have uncovered that the casino was operating without a 
license.  
While the merchants may have changed for the later transactions, the pattern of activity 
didnt. So, I dont see any grounds for COM to have intervened again later. But even if it had, 
I dont think this would have prevented some of the loss either. While Mr K might not have 
recognised the names of the recipients, he knew that hed made payments of the same 
amount to the casino. And, none of the payments which debited his account actually 
appeared on his statement under the name of the casino. Its hard to see how Mr K wouldnt 
have been aware of this by the later payments.
Ive also considered whether COM made a mistake by not disputing any of the payments 
through the Mastercard chargeback scheme. The chargeback scheme allows card payments 
to be disputed  but only for specified reasons and under certain conditions. I wouldnt 
expect COM to raise claims unless there was a reasonable prospect of them being 
successful. I dont think COM made a mistake by not raising any chargeback claims  for both the 
payments that were made to businesses with a gambling related MCC code and those which 
werent. Mastercards rules do not allow chargebacks in relation to gambling where the 
dispute is about the ability or otherwise to withdraw funds. So, it would only be necessary for 
the merchants to show that they made Mr Ks funds available to gamble with (something 
which he doesnt dispute). 
Its important to note that ultimately it is the scheme operator that decides whether a 
chargeback is successful and, in my experience, it will consider any case strictly within the 
scheme rules: in this case whether there is evidence that the service (of making funds 
available to gamble) was provided. Mr K cannot demonstrate that it wasnt and the merchant 
would very likely be able to. Neither, in my experience, will Mastercard consider other 
evidence  such as allegations that the merchant is operating as a scam. So, I dont think 
COM have made a mistake by not raising chargeback claims for the payments. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K. I accept hes been taken advantage of by a fraudulent 
merchant, but that doesnt mean COM is responsible for his loss and I havent found that it 
has made an error. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman