DRN-3890629
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Stride Limited paid part of the commission they received for arranging 
his property insurance policy to a letting agent who, Ill refer to as J.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Stride fulfilled their obligations under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) in making it clear to Mr K in their terms and conditions that they were 
receiving commission for arranging his policy each year. They were not obliged to tell 
Mr K how much they were receiving unless he asked them to. Mr K asked them in 
2022 and they told him how much they were receiving. 
Stride were not obliged to tell Mr K that they were passing part of the commission 
they received to J. However, when Mr K asked them what commission they received 
they told Mr K theyd been doing this. I think they acted reasonably in this regard, as 
the rules under which they operate did not prevent them from doing this. 
Im satisfied from the evidence theyve provided that Stride arranged a suitable policy 
for Mr K at each renewal and that they were not influenced by the level of 
commission they could receive. 
Im also satisfied from the evidence Stride have provided that the commission they 
received, and the fact they paid part of this to J, had no impact on the premium Mr K 
paid. 
Im satisfied with Strides explanation of why they havent paid commission to J from 
the 2021 renewal. Theyve said this is because theyve stopped paying commission 
to other businesses by cheque and dont have Js bank details, despite asking them 
for these. And they have confirmed that part of their commission for this renewal will 
be paid to J once they have their bank details.
For these reasons, although I appreciate Mr Ks concerns, I dont think Stride have done 
anything wrong and therefore Ive decided not to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against Stride Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman