DRN-3410774
The complaint
Mr J, represented by his partner Ms S, has complained about his motor insurer Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited because it cancelled his policy mid-term due to what it 
referred to as Ms Ss inappropriate behaviour.
What happened
Ms S often represents Mr J in his financial dealings. But she is not a policyholder on his car 
insurance policy with LV.
In May 2021, Ms S was speaking to one of LVs representatives about Mr Js policy. She 
was unhappy with what she was told and complained, but the policy renewed in the 
meantime. 
LV responded to Ms Ss complaint; in writing and over the phone. Ms S was unhappy with 
various aspects of those replies and sent emails in reply. LV was concerned by the language 
Ms S had used. Her comments were put to a committee. The committee decided, and LV 
agreed, that Ms S had acted inappropriately, and it cancelled Mr Js policy.
Ms S said this was unfair. Her comments, made when she was distressed, had been taken 
completely out of context. She said one of LVs representatives had been discriminating 
against her. It is a type of discrimination she faces all the time, she said, so she knew it was 
happening, only when she tried to put her concerns into an email it didnt sound right. She 
said her language throughout had been assertive, not abusive. Ms S said that, regardless, 
Mr J had not said or done anything wrong, so it was unfair that he was punished by having 
his policy cancelled. LV said it wouldnt apply a cancellation fee. It said it understood this 
was a difficult position for Mr J to be in  but he, as the policyholder, was ultimately 
accountable. A complaint was made to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms S said she felt this was unfair. She said Mr J 
had been very upset by everything because she had been upset. She said she had wanted 
us to listen to what had happened and understand how theyd been impacted by LVs 
shambolic mistreatment. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is a very upsetting situation for Ms S and Mr J. But I can only take into 
account any upset Mr J alone has suffered. And I can only make an award against LV in 
respect of that upset if I find it has been caused by an unfair and/or unreasonable act of LV. 
As such, I have carefully considered what went on  taking into account not just the emails 
Ms S sent, but also the reasons she has given for their content. Ive set out my views on the 
complaint below.
This all stems from a call Ms S had with LV when renewing Mr Js policy. She was unhappy 
with the service received  and she is entitled to both feel that way and complain about it. 
From what I have seen LV responded to that complaint as it would any other. And, as part of 
that process LV called Ms S to discuss things. I understand Ms S was also unhappy about 
this call. But it is not really comments made by Ms S during these calls that are in question. 
Following her renewal call which culminated in the complaint, Ms S asked for several of LVs 
staff members to be sacked. She also sent a number of emails to LV detailing what she 
referred to at times as its deplorable or despicable service, which set out what she saw as 
the failings of the various representatives shed encountered whilst renewing the policy and 
during the course of the complaint made about its service. Ive seen where Ms S asked for 
employees to be sacked. And Ive considered the other content of emails Ms S sent 
I can understand why LV had concerns about some of the comments Ms S made in her 
emails. It isnt appropriate for me to go into detail about their content here. But in summary in 
emails to LV Ms S was rude about staff members and used phrases such as jobsworth, 
corrupt people, cronyism, and You are doing that typical.thing of undermining other 
[people of a similar ethnicity]. I consider that her comments, on the whole, go beyond her 
being reasonably assertive about the service failings she felt she had encountered.
LVs policy allows it, in certain circumstances, and on giving appropriate notice, to cancel a 
policy mid-term. Notice, in line with the policy conditions was given. One of these 
circumstances for cancellation listed in the policy is where You behave inappropriately for 
us to continue your insurance. 
Mr J is the named policyholder. But he chose Ms S to represent him. And it was Ms S that 
always dealt with LV on Mr Js behalf. Ms S was entitled to her opinion about LVs staff, but 
LV is also entitled to act to protect its staff from any unreasonable behaviour. To me it was 
clear Ms S, as Mr Js representative, had completely lost faith in LVs ability to fairly provide 
the service that was being paid for. In the circumstances, I can understand LV thinking that 
the policy could not continue, to its next renewal  which was about eight months away when 
it put the cancellation into effect. Here, given the email content Ive seen, and even taking 
into account the explanations Ms S has given, I think LV acted fairly and reasonably and 
within the policys terms and conditions in cancelling Mr Js policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman