DRN-3806792
The complaint
Mrs S complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs S applied for a Tesco Bank credit card online in September 2017. Tesco Bank approved 
Mrs S application with a £3,200 credit limit. Mrs S transferred a £1,500 balance on to the 
credit account at the same time. She spent most of the remaining available credit gambling 
before making a £3,000 payment to clear the balance the same month. Mrs S continued to 
use her card mainly for gambling transactions. 
Tesco Bank reduced Mrs S credit limit to £3,050 from July 2018. In August 2021, it agreed a 
short-term repayment plan. Mrs S approached a debt charity the following month and 
entered into a debt management plan, at which point Tesco Bank issued a notice of default 
before terminating the credit agreement in October 2021.
Mrs S complained to Tesco Bank in February 2022. She said that the lender failed to protect 
her from using her credit card to gamble and that it had lent irresponsibly. Tesco Bank didnt 
uphold Mrs S complaint and so she referred the matter here.
Mrs S complaint was considered by one of this services investigators and at first, he 
thought that Tesco Bank had needed to have done more in light of the level of gambling 
transactions it ought to have seen on the account in question. However, on reflection, the 
investigator revised his assessment and did not uphold the complaint. He thought Tesco 
Bank carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before opening Mrs S an account and 
that these didnt show Mrs S gambling problem or any other reasons for it not to lend. He 
also thought Tesco Bank had adequately monitored Mrs S account thereafter. And he 
explained that the Gambling Commissions ban on gambling establishments accepting credit 
card payments from April 2020 did not mean that Tesco Bank had acted irresponsibly.  
As the investigator didnt think her complaint should be upheld and Mrs S didnt agree, the 
matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint.
Tesco Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs S 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mrs S would be able to pay any credit limit in a sustainable way.
Tesco Bank did complete some checks to see if the £3,200 credit limit was affordable, 
including searching Mrs S credit file and carrying out an affordability assessment using the 
income declared when she applied online. Although Tesco Bank didnt validate the income 
Mrs S declared  for example, by checking her bank account turnover  it was consistent 
with the other information it gathered from the credit search. Mrs S declared she earnt 
£35,000 a year. Her credit files show she was a homeowner with £84,000 outstanding on her 
mortgage and that she owed around £9,000 in unsecured debt. It also noted she had 
£17,800 in default with the latest default being 37 months ago.
Altogether, I agree with Tesco Bank that there wasnt anything in the information it had which 
showed that Mrs S could be having problems managing her money. And the amount of 
credit offered wasnt so great relative to her declared salary that there was an obvious risk to 
Mrs S of having difficulty repaying it within a reasonable period of time. So I dont think 
Tesco Bank was irresponsible here when it approved Mrs S credit card application with a 
£3,200 credit limit.
I note that Mrs S has brought her complaint about irresponsible lending due to her problem 
gambling, rather than about affordability. Even a cursory examination of Mrs S credit card 
statements shows that she was gambling heavily. Moreover, I think given the degree of the 
gambling that gambling fits the broad definition of problem gambling  gambling that was 
disruptive or damaging to her.
However, all this information is from the time after Mrs S took out the credit card. I dont think 
the information Tesco Bank had available following its checks showed that Mrs S was 
gambling heavily.  So, I cannot reasonably say that Tesco Bank ought reasonably to have 
been aware that Mrs S was engaging in problem gambling before approving her application, 
and therefore, as a result it ought not to have lent to her.
Mrs S has referred to the ban on credit card use for gambling that was introduced by the 
Gambling Commission in April 2020. However, this applies to gambling merchants and 
relates to them not taking payments for gambling by credit card. It wasnt introduced for 
banks to adhere to as the Gambling Commission has no regulatory oversight over them. So, 
the ban in and of itself wasnt a reason for Tesco Bank to stop the transactions Mrs S made. 
Overall, Ive not been persuaded that there was sufficient reason for Tesco Bank to have 
blocked these transactions. Mrs S hadnt, for example, contacted Tesco Bank to explain that 
she needed help to prevent her from gambling. And the transactions were authorised by 
Mrs S. For these reasons, I wont be upholding Mrs S complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman