DRN-3107803
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly registered 
adverse information on Mr Ds credit file, despite them asking for Mr Ds name to be 
removed from their joint account. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D says following their separation they wrote to Nationwide in April 2020, 
asking for Mr D to be removed from their joint FlexDirect (FD) account. Mr D says on 
checking his credit file in January 2021 he noticed Nationwide had registered adverse credit 
information against him. Mr D says he had cleared the borrowing on the joint FD account 
and believed the overdraft facility and his name had been removed. Mr D and Mrs D says 
they never received any correspondence from Nationwide regarding the removal of Mr D 
from the joint FD account. 
Mr D says he has since offered to clear the outstanding borrowing on the joint FD account, if 
Nationwide were prepared to remove his name from the joint FD account and clear his credit 
file, but they have refused to do this. Mr D says this has caused him a great deal of stress 
and has prevented him from obtaining a mortgage and has had an adverse effect on his 
credit rating. Mr D wants Nationwide to remove his name from the joint FD account and for 
them to clear his credit file.
Nationwide says they wrote to Mr D and Mrs D separately in April 2020 asking for them to 
contact them following the receipt of the request to remove Mr D from the joint FD account. 
Nationwide says this was because they required further security checks to be carried out, 
but as they heard nothing further from either party, they closed their file on the matter. 
Nationwide says they wrote to the registered address they held on file and cant be 
responsible for the fact Mr D and Mrs D didnt receive these. 
Mr D and Mrs D werent happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Nationwide had provided evidence to show letters were sent to both parties at the 
address they held on file, asking Mr D and Mrs D to contact them to discuss the removal of 
Mr D from the joint FD account. The investigator said in addition to this, monthly bank 
statements were sent addressed to both parties detailing the account was still held in their 
joint names. The investigator says as the FD account remained in the joint names of Mr D 
and Mrs D Nationwide acted correctly when they reported the conduct of the joint FD 
account, to the credit reference agencies.
Mr D and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it has been a stressful time for Mr D and Mrs D and it would have been 
upsetting for them to believe Mr Ds name had been removed from the account only to find 
Nationwide hadnt actioned their request. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if 
Nationwide acted fairly when they registered adverse credit information on Mr Ds credit file 
and if they should have removed his name from the joint FD account.
Mr D and Mrs D says they wrote to Nationwide in April 2020 following their separation, 
requesting for Mr D to be removed from the joint FD account. Mr D and Mrs D maintain they 
never received any further communication from Nationwide and had assumed Mr Ds name 
had been removed from the joint FD account, as they requested. Mr D has told this service 
he repaid his wifes debts including the overdraft outstanding on their FD account in April 
2020 and any other debt incurred since then was not his responsibility. Mr D wants 
Nationwide to remove his name from the joint FD account and clear his credit file, even if 
that requires him repaying any current outstanding borrowing on the joint FD account. Mr D 
says Nationwide have refused to do this.
Mr D has mentioned specifically that he believed hed removed his name from the joint FD 
account with Mrs D, and had never been told anything otherwise from Nationwide. Mr D has 
told this service he paid off the overdraft and both of them completed instructions to 
Nationwide to remove his name from the joint FD account. Mr D  went on to say, as far as I 
am concerned I was removed from the account. Both Mr D and Mrs D claim they never 
received any correspondence from Nationwide following their request. 
While I can understand the point Mr D makes here, its worth mentioning the application form 
they completed and sent to Nationwide is that, an application and not a confirmation of its 
acceptance. I say this because the form I have seen states, Nationwide does reserve the 
right to decline a request to remove an account holder. So, while Mr D may not agree, this 
request did need to be approved by Nationwide before he was formally removed from the 
joint FD account, and no longer liable for the future activity on it. 
The removal of an account holder application completed by Mr D and Mrs D, states if any 
account holder has changed their address, a change of address form  must also be 
completed. I am satisfied the reason for this is because if one party asks to be removed, 
Nationwide may need to contact them before agreeing to any request. I have also seen 
copies of two letters sent by Nationwide, independently to Mr D and Mrs D, asking for them 
to make contact about their request to remove Mr D from the joint FD account, as they 
needed to complete further security checks. While Mr D and Mrs D have said these letters 
werent received, they were sent to the only address registered on file for them both, and 
while I have no way of knowing if Mrs D, who was living at that address at the time received 
them, the letters were correctly addressed here, so I cant hold Nationwide responsible for 
any non-delivery. These letters also state, if they didnt hear from either party within 14 days, 
Nationwide would close their files on the matter. 
Its also fair to say bank statements had continued to be issued and addressed to both Mr D 
and Mrs D, so I cant say that Mrs D at least wouldnt have been aware of this and could 
have contacted Nationwide, or Mr D, at that time to explain the request to remove Mr D from 
the FD account. In the complaint to this service Mr D says they requested to remove his 
name from the FD account in April 2020, and the application form I have seen is dated 26 
March 2020, so its fair to say Nationwide would have in all likelihood, received Mr Ds & Mrs 
Ds request, sometime in early April 2020. That said, by 1 April 2020, the joint overdraft facility on the FD account was still being 
utilised. Mr D says he left Mrs D to deal with matters after he had signed the application 
form. While Mr D may not agree, given there was a joint and several liability on the FD 
account, I would have expected him to have made certain he was no longer named on the 
account rather than assuming it had happened.  
I have been provided with letters addressed and sent to Mr D and Mrs D, from Nationwide in 
October and November 2020, asking Mr D & Mrs D to contact them about the borrowing on 
the joint FD account. It seems no contact was made at that time, and this ultimately led 
Nationwide defaulting the joint FD account and referring this to the appropriate credit 
reference agencies.  Although I can understand that Mr D feels its unfair he has been 
reported to those credit reference agencies, Nationwide do have a responsibility to correctly 
record its customers account activity and I cant say they were wrong in doing so, as Mr D 
hadnt been released from the joint FD account or the debt attaching to it. 
Mr D has told this service he has offered to repay the borrowing outstanding if Nationwide 
removed the adverse information on his credit file, but I cant tell Nationwide to do that here, 
for the reasons I have already given. If Mr D and Mrs D wish to discuss the future 
arrangements on the joint FD account, that is something they will need to discuss directly 
with Nationwide here. 
While Mr D and Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking any more of 
Nationwide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman