DRN-3514541
The complaint
The estate of Mrs F complains about the time taken for Interactive Investor Services Limited 
(IISL) to sell some investments.
What happened
On Tuesday 13 July 2021 IISL received instructions from the estate to sell some investments 
in order to pay an inheritance tax liability. This instruction was actioned on Friday 23 July 
2021 and funds were sent to HMRC as requested.
Representatives of the estate complained to IISL as they were unhappy with the time it took 
to sell the investments as the value had fallen before the request was processed. IISL didnt 
uphold the complaint saying the time taken to process the request wasnt unreasonable. The 
representatives of the estate remained unhappy so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and thought that IISL hadnt made any 
errors when processing the request. The representatives of the estate disagreed and 
provided more reasoning as to why they thought IISL was responsible for the loss. Our 
Investigator considered this, but an agreement couldnt be reached so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The representatives of the estate have provided a lot of information about the complaint and 
its clear how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure them that Ive read 
and considered everything thats been provided, including listening to the telephone calls, 
even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of what happened which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. However, Ive given careful consideration to all the 
submissions before coming to a decision. 
After considering all the information I think ISSL acted fairly when actioning the request and 
there were no unreasonable or unnecessary delays on their part.
The request was received on Tuesday 13 July 2021 and actioned Friday 23 July 2021  this 
is some nine working days (inclusive). Considering the circumstances at the time I dont see 
this as an unreasonable timeframe.  
When looking into things our Investigator explained that ISSL has a timeframe of ten working 
days to process instructions such as what was requested. The representatives of the estate 
said they werent aware of the timeframe, and I agree they werent made aware. However 
even if this internal timeframe didnt apply to this type of transaction, and there seems to be 
some debate about whether it does, I still think that the request was processed fairly. I think 
the correspondence around this ten day frame shifted focus from the crux of the complaint 
which is about the overall time taken to process the instruction. 
Ive looked at what happened when the forms were first submitted, and Ive seen no 
evidence that ISSL made the estate aware of any timeframes at all. So I cant say that ISSL 
did anything wrong processing the request in the way that it did. Its common practice for 
requests such as this to be actioned in the date order in which they were received.
The letters from the representatives to ISSL said Please complete this as soon as possible. 
And Im happy thats what ISSL did - bearing in mind that work was being processed in date 
order. There was no mention made of any other urgency or that any floors be placed on the 
trades. 
When dealing with our Investigator the representatives have said that had they been aware 
of any ten day timeframe they wouldve asked for floors on the trades as time was not of the 
essence. This is somewhat different to the letter from the time referenced above which 
asked for things to be done as soon as possible. 
One of the representatives spoke with ISSL on 22 July 2021. They told that ISSL were still 
working on things prior to 13 July 2021 but that as a priority they would get on it straight 
away - which is what happened as the funds were sent the next day. 
There has also been discussion about if what had been requested was complex and 
therefore took longer. It seems to me that whether it was complex or not didnt cause any 
real delays. After the phone call on 22 July 2021, prior to which the request hadnt been 
actioned, the funds were sent the next day. So there doesnt seem to be any real delay 
caused by the way in which the instruction was given. 
Its clear the value of the investments fell over the time the instruction was waiting to be 
processed. And Im sorry to hear that the estate received less than it expected, however I 
dont think ISSL should be held responsible for any loss. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened, Im satisfied IISL acted fairly and 
reasonably when processing the instruction so wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman