DRN-3391815
The complaint
Mr W complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) and their 
decision to approve him as a guarantor for his sons loan, which he feels was provided 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr Ws son applied for a loan with ELL, with Mr W acting as the 
guarantor. This application was approved, and Mr Ws son was provided with a loan of 
£6,500 over a 60-month term, with a monthly repayment of £256.48.
But Mr W says he lived in constant worry that his son may default on the loan repayment 
and that ELL would turn to him for the monthly payment instead, which he couldnt afford. 
So, when Mr W downsized his house he cleared the loan himself, paying £6,323.78 in 
September 2020.
And then in February 2022, Mr W raised a complaint with ELL. Mr W thought ELL had acted 
irresponsibly when providing the loans with him as guarantor, as he thought adequate 
checks wouldve shown that he wouldve been unable to afford the repayments if his son 
defaulted on them. So, he wanted ELL to refund him the money hed spent clearing the loan 
plus interest. 
ELL didnt agree. They thought theyd completed proportionate checks when approving Mr 
W as a guarantor. And they didnt think these checks provided any information to them that 
suggested the loan wouldve been affordable had his son defaulted on the payments. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr W remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained there were no 
set amount of checks ELL needed to complete when deciding whether the loan was 
affordable. But they thought the checks ELL did do, including a credit reference check, were 
proportionate. And they didnt think the information these checks provided to ELL at the time 
suggested the loan was unaffordable, or that more information shouldve been requested 
before approving the loan. So, while our investigator recognised Mr Ws concerns, they 
didnt think ELL needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He maintained his view that he didnt have the disposable income ELL 
calculated at the time the loan was given. And he thought this wouldve been clear had ELL 
requested further information, such as bank statements. So, while he recognised ELL may 
have been working within industry guidelines at the time, he didnt think these guidelines 
were fit for purpose. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I dont doubt Mr W was 
left worried and anxious about what would happen to him financially if he was required to 
cover the cost of the loans monthly repayment. I think this is supported by Mr Ws decision 
to clear the loan when he downsized his house to remove that anxiety. I recognise this 
wasnt something Mr W wanted or likely planned to do before the loan was taken out. So, I 
can understand why Mr W would review ELLs decision to approve the loan with him as a 
guarantor and feel as though this decision has left him at a financial loss. And, as Mr W 
doesnt think the loan was affordable, I can understand why he thinks ELL have acted 
irresponsibly and should cover the loss hes incurred. Im always aware that shortly after Mr 
W cleared the loan, his son fell ill and has not been able to return to work. So, I appreciate 
Mr Ws comments and concern about what may have happened, had he not been able to 
clear the loan when he did.
But for me to say ELL should compensate Mr W, Id need to be satisfied they had done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that the checks they completed before 
approving the loan werent proportionate to the loan that was provided. Or, if I think they 
were, Id need to be satisfied that ELL failed to assess the information these checks provided 
them fairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its important for me to make it clear that there are no set amount of checks a lender 
such as ELL is required to make before approving a loan. Instead, guidelines set by the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), say a lender must undertake 
checks that are proportionate.
In this situation, Mr W was the guarantor of the loan, not the debtor. So, the expectation 
would be for the debtor to make the monthly repayments, not Mr W and Ive factored this into 
my decision on the proportionality. Even though Mr W wasnt the debtor, Id still expect ELL 
to make checks that would provide them with a reasonable amount of information that 
allowed them to confident of the loans affordability.
In this situation, I can see ELL considered the application information Mr W provided, which 
included his monthly income, homeowner status and mortgage payments, declared monthly 
outgoing and employment status as well as the information provided in his credit file. As well 
as this, ELL completed an income verification check to ensure Mr Ws declared income was 
accurate. As the potential monthly repayment equated to just over 10% of Mr Ws declared 
monthly income, and Mr W declared he had no mortgage commitments, I think these checks 
were proportionate to the loan that was being provided. So, I cant say theyve done anything 
wrong here.
But as Ive explained, I also need to be satisfied that ELL assessed the information these 
checks provided fairly.
Ive seen the income verification check showed Mr Ws income was within 10% of the £2,200 
he declared. So, I think it was fair for any affordability calculations to be based on a minimum 
income of £1,980 a month. And as Mr W declared no mortgage outgoings on the application, 
and no active mortgage was visible on his credit file, I think ELL were fair to calculate Mr Ws 
living expenses as £824 as this was calculated in line with the Office of National Statistics 
guidelines, which is standard industry practice.Ive seen Mr Ws credit file showed he a current account with an overdraft and three active 
credit cards. And Mr Ws credit file reported that all of these accounts were being managed 
well, with no missed or late payment markers, defaults or county court judgements having 
been applied. I do recognise that two of the credit cards had balances very close to the 
account limit, and on one card Mr W had on occasion exceeding his limit. But as no late or 
missed payments were reported, I think this showed Mr W had the ability and financial 
means to make the payments need to fall back under the limit. And being close to a credit 
limit itself doesnt mean additional credit should be provided, as when any credit is provided, 
its given on the expectation that a customer will utilise the entire limit available. So, I dont 
think information shown from the checks ELL suggested to them that the loan was 
unaffordable, or that more information such as bank statements, were required. And 
because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. And I recognise the information 
provided in the bank statements Mr W has sent to me paint a different picture of his financial 
situation. So, I can understand why he wont feel this decision is fair. But my decision must 
be focused on the information ELL had reasonably available to them at the time. And as I 
think the checks they completed were proportionate, and so further information such as bank 
statements didnt need to be requested, Im unable to use the information within these 
statements when deciding that their decision to approve the loan was fair.
I also understand Mr W isnt happy that the industry guidelines dont stipulate a minimum 
amount of checks that should be completed. And because of this, he doesnt think industry 
standards are fair and these should be altered to protect customers more. But our service is 
unable to comment on industry standards. These standards and guidelines are set by the 
FCA. And they are the organisation that ensures business processes fall within these. So, 
while I do recognise Mr Ws concerns, they dont impact the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Trusttwo.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman