DRN-3741539
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about delays in the handling of their application to transfer their 
lifetime mortgage to another property. They say they had to redeem the mortgage and pay 
an early repayment charge to go ahead with their sale so as not to lose their buyers.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs C and Mr C took out a lifetime mortgage with Pure Retirement Limited 
(PRL) with an initial advance of £40,000 and the facility to draw down further sums in the 
future. Under the terms of the mortgage they were able to transfer  or port - the mortgage if 
the new property met PRLs lending conditions at the time. If they repaid the mortgage within 
the first 15 years, other than after their death or because they needed long term residential 
care, Mrs C and Mr C were liable to pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
In August 2021 Mrs C contacted PRL about porting the mortgage to a new property. They 
found buyers for their existing property. And following a valuation of the new property, PRL 
confirmed they were happy for the port to go ahead. 
In mid-September Mrs C let PRL know that theyd instructed alternative solicitors to those 
they were originally using. PRL didnt let their licensed conveyancers know about the change 
until early November. The conveyancers didnt contact Mrs C and Mr Cs solicitors until 
around 18 November. So, there was an initial delay to the conveyancing process starting. 
Mrs C complained about that and PRL apologised for the delay theyd caused. 
Mrs C and Mr C were concerned about the way in which PRLs conveyancers then dealt with 
things and the time they took. An initial completion date of 17 December was missed. The 
process was delayed until the new year. And in January 2022 PRLs conveyancers still had 
some outstanding issues regarding the transactions.
PRL issued an offer on 24 January 2022 with a view to completion taking place at the end of 
the month. PRLs conveyancers required an up to date OS2 Land Registry search certificate 
before completion could go ahead. Concerned about losing their sale given the time things 
had already taken, Mrs C and Mr C decided to redeem the equity release mortgage on       
27 January. 
Mrs C and Mr C were unhappy theyd paid valuation and application fees and incurred an 
ERC. They thought PRL should reimburse them due to the poor service they and their 
conveyancers had provided.
Our investigator looked into PRLs actions. He didnt think they were responsible for the 
delays that had occurred or that theyd treated Mrs C and Mr C unfairly. Since Mrs C and    
Mr C were unhappy with that outcome, their complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to the parties for the information theyve provided. It was helpful to consider    
Mrs Cs detailed chronology alongside PRLs notes and call recordings. I wont set out 
everything in my decision. No discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of the service we provide. Id like to reassure the parties Ive thought carefully about 
everything theyve told us in coming to my decision.
Im sorry to hear how stressful Mrs C and Mr C found the porting application process. I 
understand they were given the impression by the broker who sold them the mortgage that it 
would be straight forward. And Mrs C said she thought from information shed seen it would 
only take a few weeks. I havent seen the information Mrs C was referring to. But Im not 
aware PRL gave any assurance as to how long things would take in their case. And PRL 
explained during the process that porting could commonly take up to six months. 
PRL acknowledged theyd made a mistake in failing to pass on the information about Mrs C 
and Mr Cs change of solicitors to their conveyancers. They did so around eight weeks after 
Mrs C had let them know. PRLs conveyancers took another ten days or so to contact the 
solicitors, which increased the time it took for the process to start.
I dont think its fair to say everything Mrs C and Mr C feel went wrong later, and their 
eventual decision not to go ahead with the porting application, resulted from PRLs initial 
delay in passing on the details of their solicitors. The complaints theyve made relate to the 
way in which the conveyancers dealt with things  they include, for example, delay, requests 
for unnecessary information and misunderstanding information about the buildings 
insurance for the property they were buying. I dont think the mistakes Mrs C and Mr C 
allege the conveyancers made, or what happened in the end, could have been foreseen as 
the result of PRLs initial mistake.
It wouldnt be fair to hold PRL responsible for the conveyancers alleged mistakes. Following 
Mrs C and Mr Cs enquiry about porting, PRL wrote to them explaining the process. They set 
out the roles of their respective solicitors and made it clear they couldnt assist with the 
conveyancing. PRL appointed conveyancers who are regulated by the Council for Licensed 
Conveyancers to provide conveyancing services to them. Whilst I understand Mrs C 
understood from other people the conveyancers had a reputation for being slow, it was 
reasonable for PRL to think they had the necessary expertise to carry out the work and to 
instruct them. And it was reasonable for them to rely on the conveyancers advice, as 
professionals in their field, in making decisions about the porting application.
I understand Mrs C and Mr C feel strongly someone ought to take responsibility for what 
they feel went wrong. And Ive seen the evidence their solicitors have provided about the 
actions of the conveyancers. But I cant consider Mrs C and Mr Cs concerns about them as 
they arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and I dont have the power to do so. 
I can only consider the actions of PRL.
I think PRL did enough to put right their initial mistake by apologising. And I think they made 
reasonable efforts to try and push things through as quickly as possible when Mrs C and    
Mr C raised concerns. They were in frequent contact with Mrs C when she rang them and 
when they contacted her to provide updates on the progress of the porting application. They 
dealt with her in a courteous way. They were in regular contact with their conveyancers to try 
and progress things more quickly than usual turnaround times might allow; they arranged for 
manager to manager contact; they asked the conveyancers to treat the application as 
urgent; and they put pressure on them to prioritise the application. I think PRL did what they 
reasonably could to move things on.Even if I thought PRL had made further mistakes, I wouldnt ask them to reimburse the ERC. 
Mrs C and Mr C knew theyd incur the ERC if they repaid the mortgage within the 15-year 
period  that was clearly explained in the mortgage offer. I appreciate they felt under 
pressure to complete and didnt want to risk losing their buyer. But in the end it was their 
choice to redeem the mortgage and they did so knowing theyd be liable for the ERC. For 
similar reasons I wouldnt have asked PRL to pay back the valuation and application fees 
which they understood were non-refundable.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs C and Mr C will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman