DRN-3234653
The complaint
Miss D complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to set up a direct debit 
which shouldve been crediting her Child Trust Fund (CTF) since it was opened in 2005.
Miss D has been represented by Mr and Mrs D throughout this complaint. Miss D was a 
minor when the account was set up so for ease of reference, Ill refer to all submissions as 
being made by Mrs D, who set the account up at the time.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why:
I can understand why finding out at maturity that the value of the CTF wasnt as high 
as expected wouldve been frustrating. This is because the planned contributions of 
£10 a month were never made to the account.
Its not in dispute there was an error when the initial application was completed. No 
preferred direct debit collection date was entered on the mandate, causing it to be 
rejected. There were also additional digits added to the account number the direct 
debit was to be taken from.
Im aware Mrs D feels the branch staff where the application form was completed 
shouldve identified the missing information; however, Im satisfied she signed the 
application to say the information was correct.
Ultimately, when the error came to light, I wouldve expected NatWest to bring it to 
the attention of Mrs D. And I can see that they did.
NatWest wrote to Mrs D shortly after the account was set up, to explain the direct 
debit instruction theyd received was unacceptable. And if she wished to proceed with 
setting up a direct debit, a new mandate would need to be completed and returned.
I appreciate Mrs D says this letter was never received. But I can see it was sent to 
the correct address held by NatWest at the time, and I cant fairly hold them 
responsible for the safe delivery of mail.
Mrs D feels NatWest shouldve done more to make contact, either by telephone or by 
sending a follow up letter. However, the vast majority of correctly addressed mail is 
correctly delivered. Its normal industry practice for letters to be sent out once, and 
via the standard postal service.
I understand in hindsight, given the circumstances of this case, that further contact 
wouldve been helpful  however I cant say NatWest were under any obligation to do 
more. I wouldve expected NatWest to notify Mrs D of the error allowing her to put 
things right, which they did. 
In summary, Im satisfied NatWest have acted fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking 
them to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman