DRN-2931229
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) blocked its account for
two weeks without justification, causing additional costs and reputational damage to O. Os
complaint has been brought by Mr K, a director.
  
What happened
Mr K told us that BoS had blocked Os business account between 28 February and 11 March
2019. He listed payments that were declined, and income not received during this time. But
he said when he first contacted BoS about the block, it told him everything was running
normally. Then he contacted BoS again, and was told his account had been wrongly
blocked, and would take two days to unblock. Although BoS said the account was active
again on the same day, Mr K said there were no transactions until two days later.
Mr K said this damaged Os reputation, and it had taken a great deal of his time to resolve.
Mr K said BoS had paid him £200, but he said he wanted damages for loss of reputation,
compensation for the impact on Os trading, and payment for the time hed taken to sort this
out. He has suggested compensation in the region of £8,000.
BoS said it had received information it had requested from O, but then it hadnt reviewed that
information promptly enough, and this led to Os account being blocked. BoS had paid O
£200 in compensation, and offered to cover any costs that O had incurred.
BoS also said it would send Mr K a letter confirming that BoS had made a mistake in
blocking Os account, so that he could show this to business contacts. But when the case
came to us, BoS said it couldnt see that this had been sent.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said BoS had made a fair
offer, and it should send the letter it had previously discussed with Mr K. Our investigator
thought that Mr K had unfortunately ignored a letter saying that Os account was going to be
blocked, and in doing that, hed missed an opportunity to mitigate Os loss.
Our investigator said that Mr K had shown us that payments were missed during this time,
but the only cost Mr K had shown us was a cost to him, not to O, for overdraft charges. Our
investigator said we cant compensate Mr K as part of a complaint brought by O.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that we hadnt taken into account that hed sent all the information
BoS requested from O, and had done so over four months before his account was frozen.
Mr K said that BoS had acknowledged it had made a mistake, and our service hadnt taken
account of the reputational and consequential damage to his business. He said that the
actual financial loss, in terms of bank charges etc, had been insignificant in comparison.
Mr K hasnt provided proof of Os loss of profit.
BoS then supplied further information. It demonstrated that the block was removed on 8
March 2019, as it had originally said. It said Mr K had supplied the information it needed to
avoid blocking Os account in late August 2018, but a mistake had been made and it wasnt
recorded against his account then. So in January 2019 BoS had written to O to say that its
account would be blocked at the end of February.
BoS confirmed it hadnt yet issued the letter to say that this was all its fault, and said it could
do this now if we wanted it to. The letter was finally sent around six months after this, over
two years after the account was blocked.
BoS said no direct debits had been declined during the time Os account was blocked. One
standing order had failed. BoS also hadnt yet refunded the one charge it could see, for this
failed standing order, but said it was happy to refund that charge of £25.
Because no agreement was reached on this case, it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr K has been very concerned by what BoS did, and hes told us that his suppliers 
and contractors didnt believe that this was all a mistake by BoS. They thought it was 
a problem with O, and it might not be operating on a financially sound basis.
Mr K hasnt provided details of direct costs to O of the account being suspended, 
although BoS knows it has charged him £25, and I think it ought to pay this back 
now, if it hasnt done so already.
I think that our investigator was right to note that Mr K did have an opportunity to 
avoid this account suspension. Although BoS accepts that the suspension was a 
mistake, it warned O a month before that it was going to suspend its account. Like 
our investigator, I think that if Mr K had got in touch at this point, the problem might 
have been avoided. I have to take that into account when Im considering this 
complaint.
And I also note that Mr K has not been able to put a figure on the financial impact 
that this has had on O. I understand that it can be difficult to quantify damage to a 
business reputation, but I dont think I can assume, without supporting evidence, that 
this suspension resulted in damage running into many thousands of pounds. I dont 
think that would be a fair approach to take. So I cant ask BoS to compensate O to 
the extent that Mr K would like.
I know Mr K spent time trying to sort out the problems with Os banking. But this is 
Os complaint, I cant compensate Mr K for this. And I think BoSs original payment of 
£200 in compensation does provide a fair way of compensating O for the time Mr K 
spent sorting out the problems this caused, which I expect would otherwise be spent 
on the ordinary day to day running of O.
But I still think that BoS ought to do more here. And thats because it first offered Mr 
K a letter saying that this had been a mistake on its part in April 2019. But it didnt 
send that letter until May 2021. I understand that BoS may have thought that it wasnt 
appropriate to send that letter while our service was investigating, but I think the letter 
shouldve been sent long before this case came to our service.
If that letter had been sent in April 2019, Mr K may have been able to use it in his
conversations with suppliers and contractors at the time. It may be rather less useful, 
so much later on.As Ive noted above, this is Os complaint, and that means I cant compensate Mr K 
for the additional time he spent in discussions with suppliers and contractors, or for 
any distress he experienced because he wasnt able to show that O was not, in fact, 
in any sort of financial difficulty. But I can compensate O for the additional time Mr K 
spent on this, which again, I expect would otherwise have been spent on the ordinary 
day to day running of O. So I think that BoS should pay O an additional £200, for its 
failure to provide this letter earlier, and the impact on O of Bos failing to support Mr K 
in his efforts to avoid any damage to O.
On what Ive seen so far, I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind.
BoS said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr K said he didnt accept my decision. He said that after Os account was blocked on 28 
February 2019, BoS paid £200 in compensation although it denied any fault. Then on 13 
May 2021, BoS admitted that blocking Os account was a mistake. Mr K wanted the 
compensation to reflect this acceptance of fault. 
I dont think thats a fair summary of the situation. The letters that BoS sent in 2019 upheld 
Mr Ks complaint that his account had been blocked because of a delay by BoSs risk team 
in reviewing the information it received, and BoS apologised then for the service Mr K had 
received. It didnt deny responsibility. 
And I should also note that our service doesnt allocate compensation solely because a 
business has accepted it made a mistake. We look at the case overall, and decide what 
would provide a fair and reasonable outcome. Thats what Ive sought to do here.
Mr K said that compensation should reflect reputational damage, as well as the many hours 
of stress and time spent attempting to re-assure suppliers, customers etc as well as 
speaking to BoS. Ive explained to Mr K that this is Os complaint, so Im not able to 
compensate him for stress caused to him personally by what went wrong here. And our 
service has asked Mr K for evidence of reputational damage to O, but hes not been able to 
supply that. I recognised in my provisional decision that it can be difficult to quantify damage 
to a business reputation, but explained that I cannot assume what this was, without 
supporting evidence. That wouldnt be fair to both sides. 
Mr K said it was extremely disappointing that BoS failed to supply the apology letter which 
was promised. He said it could have been sent to the suppliers and contacts who were 
questioning his integrity. He said it was evident that many of them simply did not believe that 
the account was blocked in error, and rather thought that O was in financial difficulty. 
I understand the point Mr K makes here, and, although Mr K doesnt appear to have pursued 
this with BoS either, Ive still taken into account that this letter wasnt sent when it would 
have been most helpful.Mr K said he felt that banks should not have the power to block accounts without fair 
warning. But again, I dont think that is quite what happened here. BoS wrote to Mr K asking 
for some information, which he supplied, and BoS overlooked. But it did then write again, 
saying it was going to block Mr Ks account. Mr K unfortunately overlooked this letter. And I 
do have to bear in mind when I consider this case, not only what BoS has done wrong, but 
also that this account would not have been blocked if it had not been for this unfortunate 
oversight.
Mr K also said that if an account is blocked, then BACS payments should be clearly 
described as unsuccessful so as to highlight a problem with the account. Mr K said that this 
failure in the banking system compounded the problem as it looked like payments hed tried 
to make from Os account were going through, when in fact they were not. 
I cant tell BoS what to do in future, because our service isnt a regulator, and doesnt set 
policies for banks. I can only look at what happened in this case. And Id like to reassure 
Mr K that this is an issue that I took into account when I considered compensation.
Mr K wanted me to reconsider the amount of compensation. I understand Mr Ks strength of 
feeling on this matter, but I have considered this case carefully, and I still think the resolution 
I suggested does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must refund into Os account £25 which it 
charged for a failed standing order, if it hasnt done so already. And it should pay O a further 
£200 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman