DRN-2836190
The complaint
Mr F and Miss L are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled a query about cover under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr F contacted their broker. He wanted to check whether an accidental 
spillage of heating oil would be covered under the policy. In particular he wanted to know 
whether they were covered for the associated contamination and clean-up operation.
The broker passed the query to RSA. Its claims handler replied that the policy looked to 
provide cover against physical damage caused by oil escaping from a fixed heating system. 
But he said the policy didnt cover the cost of removing oil from the property, the cost of 
replacing oil, repairing any damage in order to find the source of the oil leak or damage to 
the system from which the oil escapes.
Mr F didnt think this was sufficiently clear. In particular he wanted to know whether in the 
event of an oil spillage they would be covered for a clean-up operation and the removal of 
contaminated material.
RSA then referred Mr F to the policy wording. In March 2020 RSA said it couldnt confirm 
cover or commit to any financial outlay for a hypothetical situation. It referred him to the 
policy booklet and schedule and said he should speak to his broker.
After Mr F and Miss L brought their complaint to this service, RSA confirmed the policy 
would cover damage to buildings and/or contents caused by an escape of oil. It said its 
specialists would remove any contamination to their property including the entire clean-up 
operation and removal/disposal of contaminated material.
Our investigator didnt think RSA needed to do any more.
As Mr F and Miss L disagreed, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only looking at how Mr F and Miss L were treated by RSA as opposed to 
their broker.
When Mr F asked RSA about the cover under his policy for an accidental oil spillage, he 
wasnt making a claim under his policy. He was just asking it what the policy covered in the 
situation he outlined. Explaining the extent of cover to a consumer isnt a service an insurer 
will usually offer when the consumer has bought the policy through a broker and there isnt 
an actual claim. But ultimately I think an insurer ought to be able to clarify what is and isnt 
covered by the policy it is providing.
I agree that RSAs initial responses werent very clear. But overall, I dont think this complaint 
warrants a compensation award. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr F. But he was only 
making an enquiry, not a claim and I cant see that the delay by RSA in answering his 
queries has prejudiced his position.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman