DRN-3446510
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release mortgage Mrs S used to hold with Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited. Mrs S complains that Aviva wont release new funds on her reserve 
unless she provides evidence of how a previous release has been spent. 
 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs S and Aviva. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mrs S 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Mrs S took the mortgage out in 2015, on the advice and recommendation of a third party 
intermediary. In 2021, Mrs S arranged further borrowing, in the form of a reserve. This 
allowed her to apply for drawn down further funds from time to time, ostensibly for home 
improvements. Between May and August 2021, Mrs S obtained four drawdowns, but when 
she applied for another one in October 2021, Aviva asked her for evidence of what the latest 
application would be used for. It also asked her for copies of invoices for part of the previous 
drawdown, as a little over £4,200 of it had been accounted for.
Mrs S wasnt happy; she considered this a change of attitude, and contrary to what she had 
been told about being able to borrow what she wanted when she wanted. Aviva paid her 
£100 compensation for poor communication, but held its position that it needed to satisfy 
itself on how all of the previous release had been spent. Ms S referred her complaint to us; 
she thinks Aviva has mis-sold the mortgage and drawdown to her. 
Our investigator explained that any issues Mrs S had about how the equity release mortgage 
and drawdown facility had been described to her were a matter for the intermediary(ies) that 
arranged them for her. As for the main crux of the complaint, the investigator didnt think it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to insist on seeing evidence of how the unaccounted 
for portion of the previous release had been spent before approving the next one.
Mrs S asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
First of all, this decision doesnt deal with any concerns Mrs S has about how the mortgage 
and drawdown facility were sold to her. This complaint is against Aviva solely in its capacity 
as the provider of funds. If she wanted to pursue a mis-sale complaint, Mrs S would need to 
complain separately to the parties that recommended she take out the mortgage and 
drawdown facility with Aviva.
Aviva is the lender, and as a lender, it has the right to use its commercial judgement when 
assessing whether and to what extent its borrowers must demonstrate how theyre using the 
funds they draw down. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to interfere with Avivas judgement, 
or impose my judgement on it, which is, in essence, what Mrs S is asking me to do. Aviva 
has explained that around £4,200 of the August 2021 release hasnt been accounted for. I 
cant tell Mrs S what she needs to provide in order to satisfy Aviva on this, so that the current 
application can proceed. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from Mrs Ss submissions how strongly she feels. Thats a natural, 
subjective reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as Mrs S 
has been here.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
Mrs S has written openly and very eloquently about her circumstances. Shes in a difficult 
situation; but what I have to decide is whether Aviva, by either its actions or inactions, has 
treated her unfairly. Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, 
Im not persuaded thats the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman