DRN-3667003
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited and their agents 
handled their claim under their home insurance policy for damage to the drains at their 
home and an escape of water in their bathroom.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W contacted Avivas agent for emergency help when they heard gurgling 
sounds in their bathroom pipework and it looked like their toilet was about to overflow. The 
agent came out on 12 April 2021 and told Mrs W to flush the toilet. This resulted in the 
toilet overflowing and soiled water causing damage to the bathroom floor and kitchen 
ceiling below it. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to come out and inspect the damage to Mr 
and Mrs Ws home and establish the cause of the problems theyd had. They did this 
within a few days and the loss adjuster arranged for a company to carry out a drain 
survey.
Mr and Mrs W then complained about poor communication by the loss adjuster and the 
delay in getting the repairs to their home completed. They explained that they couldnt use 
their bathroom and were showering at other locations. In the meantime, the drain survey 
was carried out and the loss adjuster arranged for the drying process at the property to 
start on 12 May 2021. The drain survey showed there was damage to the drains and the 
loss adjuster authorised the repair to them on 24 May 2021. Unfortunately, the company 
they sent out to do the repairs couldnt complete them and a further survey was arranged, 
along with a plan of action for the repairs.
Aviva considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and issued their final response on 9 
September 2021. They accepted it had taken far longer than it should have done to have 
the repairs to the drains carried out and the internal rectification work completed. They 
provided a disturbance allowance of £100 per week to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the 
fact they couldnt use their bathroom and were having to shower elsewhere. They also 
offered £425 for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs W had experienced due to the 
delays with the claim and poor communication by the loss adjuster.
By this point Mr and Mrs W had already complained to us. However, as Aviva issued their
final response on 9 September, one of our Investigators considered everything that had 
happened up to this point as part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. She concluded that the 
loss adjuster hadnt been proactive enough and that mistakes had been made which had 
caused unnecessary delays with Mr and Mrs Ws claim. She felt both these things and 
poor communication, especially with regards to the option of alternative accommodation, 
from the loss adjuster had caused Mr and Mrs W a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience. And she didnt think the £425 Aviva had offered was sufficient 
compensation for this. She suggested Aviva should pay £1,200 in total, as well as the 
disturbance allowance.
Aviva didnt agree with the Investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
They considered the £425 theyd offered in compensation was adequate. From what they 
said, it seemed they thought Mr and Mrs W were well aware they could have alternative 
accommodation, but declined it. And, from this, it seemed they thought the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs W experienced was to some extent of their own making.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2022 and set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
I think its clear from the evidence provided by both parties that there were delays and 
poor communication all the way through the claim process, up to when Aviva issued their 
final response. The original drain survey was inadequate, as the company didnt identify 
the fact that there were pipes under Mr and Mrs Ws property that were encased in 
concrete. And then the company that was appointed to carry out the repairs to the drains 
couldnt complete the work. Mr and Mrs W were offered alternative accommodation in 
June 2021, but at this point they had no real idea how long repairs would take and 
couldnt properly assess whether it was worth moving out. And, it doesnt appear to have 
been offered after this.
The delays and errors eventually led to them having to live without being able to use 
their main bathroom and having to shower elsewhere for around four months. And, 
whilst they have been paid a disturbance allowance for this, I dont think this covers the 
distress and inconvenience, including the frustration Mr and Mrs W would have felt 
trying to function when working and trying to support their family over such a long 
period. I think all the drain repairs and internal repair work should have been carried out 
within a couple of months.
Instead, Mr and Mrs W were left to endure unacceptable facilities for a further two months 
and more. I cant comment on what happened after 9 September 2021, as it is not part of 
this complaint. But I do accept the process they endured up to this point was very 
distressing for them.
All this having been said, Mr and Mrs W have received a disturbance allowance of £100 
per week and been offered and possibly received a further £425. This is a significant 
amount of compensation for a fairly short period of frustration and inconvenience  that is - 
two months. And while I dont think it is adequate, I dont think they should receive a 
further £775 as suggested by our Investigator. I think the poor communication and poor 
service by Avivas loss adjuster, which Ive estimated to have caused a delay of about two 
months, warrants a total compensation payment of £600. So, I think Mr and Mrs W should 
receive a further
£175, assuming theyve been paid the £425 Aviva offered. It would be useful for me to 
know in response to this provisional decision whether Aviva have paid the £425 they 
offered already.
Id like to make it clear that this award is only for the distress and inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs W experienced between when they made their claim and when Aviva issued their 
final response to their complaint on 9 September 2021. If they are unhappy about the 
service they received with regards to their claim and the distress and inconvenience this 
caused to 
them in the period from 10 September 2021 to when the repairs to their home were finally 
completed, Mr and Mrs W will need to make a new complaint about this to Aviva, if they 
want to do so. If they then arent happy with Avivas response, we can then consider it as a 
new complaint to us.
I gave both parties until 24 August 2022 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr and Mrs W have said they have nothing further to add. Aviva asked me to clarify why I 
felt more compensation was appropiate when I accepted what theyd already paid was signifcant. And they also asked me to clarify the period of distress and inconvenience the 
compensation was for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Aviva has said, but as I explained in my provisional decision and in response 
to their query following it, I have to decide what level of compensation I consider is 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs W experienced. This is not an 
exact science and I have taken into account everything they went through as a result of the 
poor service Avivas loss adjuster provided. The two months I mentioned in my provisional 
decision is what I estimate to be the delay caused by the loss adjusters lack of action. The 
compensation of £600 is for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr and Mrs W, as 
well it being for as the distress and inconvenience they experienced generally as a result of 
the poor service and communication by the loss adjuster in the period from when they made 
their claim to 9 September 2021, when Aviva issued their final response. 
So, I remain satisfied £600 is appropriate to recognise the impact of the poor service up to 9 
September 2021, when Aviva issued their final response. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W 
complained to Aviva before this, but it was clear they were still unhappy when Aviva issued 
the final response, so I think its appropriate for me to consider anything that happened up to 
this point. 
Putting things right
It remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Aviva to pay 
Mr and Mrs W a total of £600 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced as a result of the poor service provided from when they made their claim up to 9 
September 2021. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint and order Aviva Insurance Limited to pay them £600 in compensation for distress 
and convenience, less any part of the £425 they offered that theyve already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman