DRN-4306350
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tandem Personal Loans Ltd (Tandem) unfairly declined his claims 
under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a 
timeshare product he purchased with a loan they provided to him.
What happened
Mr Hs loan was originally provided by another financial business. That business sold its 
loans to another business and these are ultimately now owned and serviced by Tandem. For 
simplicity, I will refer to the lender as being Tandem at all times throughout my decision.
In October 2018, while on holiday on his timeshare, Mr H attended a meeting with a 
representative of a timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as A. During that meeting, Mr H 
agreed to purchase a timeshare product from A at a cost of £37,500. The purchase was 
funded by a fixed sum loan of £35.000 provided by Tandem.
In or around early 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr H submitted a 
claim to Tandem under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
In particular, the PR thought the timeshare product had been misrepresented to Mr H as an 
excellent investment, and that this product could be sold at a profit whenever [Mr H] wished 
as part of [As] resale scheme. They also said that A represented that Mr H would be able to 
rent out the timeshare and that they would make a profit from the rental income, but Mr H 
wasnt able to do that. The PR said A had entered liquidation and couldnt provide the 
service sold, so were also in breach of contract. 
The PR also thought the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship was unfair as:
the terms of the purchase agreement were so egregious to be unfair in themselves, 
as the payment of commission by Tandem to A wasnt disclosed to Mr H;
maintenance costs continued to rise; 
Mr H was aggressively targeted and pressured into entering the agreement;
Mr H wasnt given time to read and understand the purchase and loan agreements; 
and
A provided no comparisons to other loan companies and failed to inform Mr H he was 
free to arrange his own finance.
Finally, the PR said Tandem (and A) hadnt completed any checks on Mr Hs ability to afford 
the loan being offered. 
Tandem responded to Mr Hs claim in July 2021. In summary, they said they were unable to 
uphold your complaint. They didnt agree there was any evidence to support the 
misrepresentations. They also didnt agree thered been a breach of contract as all 
customers enjoyed the continued use of their membership [and] at no time have the rights of 
use and occupation [] been affected by the liquidation []. Tandem went on to confirm 
theyd carried out the relevant checks when agreeing the finance and the responsibility to 
seek out their own lender lay with Mr H.
As Mr H was unhappy with Tandems response to his claim, the PR referred his complaint to 
this service. Having considered all the circumstances and information, our investigator didnt 
think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. But Mr H didnt agree with their findings. So asked 
that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 (S75) provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using 
credit. Mr H paid for the timeshare product under a regulated agreement with Tandem, so its 
possible S75 may apply here  subject to any limitations. This means its possible Mr H is 
afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, 
Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
Section 140A (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr B and Tandem 
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product(s) were funded under the credit agreement, they are deemed to be 
related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But 
as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being considered here 
specifically relates to whether I believe Tandems treatment of Mr Hs claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available. This service isnt able to make 
legal findings  as Ive already said, that is the role of the courts. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt 
prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address, in my 
decision, every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
The claim for misrepresentation
S75(3) says that Subsection (1)1 does not apply to a claim  (so far as any claim relates to 
any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more 
than £30,000[]. The purchase price shown within the purchase agreement in October 
2018 was £37,500. So, I dont believe a valid claim can be made under S75. But it is 
possible that any alleged misrepresentation could be considered under S140A if it was found 
to have resulted in an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
The claim for breach of contract
A claim under S75 is also subject to the purchase price limit mentioned above. So, I also 
dont think a valid claim can be made under that provision. Section 75A (S75A) of the CCA 
1 In relation a misrepresentation or breach of contract.provides similar (although narrower) rights to S75 and has a higher purchase price limit. 
Specifically, this section covers certain situations where theres evidence of a breach of 
contract - but not misrepresentation. Having considered that, I think Mr Hs breach of 
contract claim could be considered under this provision.
However, for me to uphold Mr Hs complaint, I would need to see evidence that A had failed 
to deliver one or more of the terms and benefits within the product agreement and 
accompanying terms and conditions. 
In their response, Tandem explained that whilst A (as the seller of the product) together with 
the timeshare management company had entered liquidation, a new management company 
had been appointed by the trustee/liquidator. This ensures Mr H is still able to fully utilise the 
benefits of the product purchased and his associated membership. So, in the absence of any 
evidence suggesting there was a loss of benefits or that any financial loss was incurred, I 
cant reasonably say that Tandems response was unfair or unreasonable.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Tandem) and the debtor (Mr H) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have regard to 
all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters 
relating to the debtor).
Misrepresentations
In determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard for any other thing 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of, the creditor2. I think the alleged misrepresentations 
are, therefore, relevant here. Further, even though I think it likely they couldnt be considered 
under S75 due to the purchase price limitation, I thought they could still be considered under 
S140A3. So, in trying to establish whether I think a court would likely find that an unfair 
relationship existed, Ive considered the alleged misrepresentations further in addition to the 
various other points raised by the PR.
The PR allege A misrepresented the product by representing it as an investment contrary to 
section 14 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs).
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been alleged, 
generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available evidence, that A 
made false statements of fact when selling the holiday product in October 2018. In other 
words, that they told Mr H something that wasnt true in relation to one or more of any points 
raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations were material in 
inducing Mr H to enter the contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that Mr H 
reasonably relied on these false statements when deciding to buy the timeshare product.
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale in 2018. The 
PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the misrepresentations they say A 
2 Under S140A(1)(c) of the CCA
3 See Scotland & Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 790made, although I acknowledge that Mr H does say he was told these things. So, Ive thought 
about this and whether theres any evidence available from the time of his purchase in 2018. 
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive seen limited specific evidence from the time of 
the sale in 2018, such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase or membership 
documentation. I have seen a letter from A confirming Mr Hs purchase together with an 
Initial Disclosure Document extending to six pages. There doesnt appear to be anything 
within these documents to corroborate the allegations. 
Its important to recognise that the contract cant have been marketed and sold as an 
investment contrary to the TRs simply because there might have been some inherent value 
to Mr Hs membership. A would had to have presented the membership in such a way that 
used its investment element to persuade Mr P to contract. Only then would it have fallen foul 
of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an investment, 
contrary to Regulation 14(3)4.
On balance and in light of what Ive said above, I think its unlikely that the product was 
marketed and sold by A as an investment contrary to the TRs. And because of that, I cant 
reasonably reach the conclusion that Mr H was told something by A that amounted to 
misrepresentation. 
Comparison to other lenders and disclosure of commissions
its argued that the payment of commission by Tandem to A wasnt declared to Mr H. That 
said, the second page of the loan agreement does say, under the heading Commission 
Payment - On or after the date when both you and we have signed this agreement, a 
commission payment may be made by us to one or more of the Credit Intermediaries named 
above. I think this is quite clear.
But I dont think the fact that Tandem might have paid A commission was incompatible with 
their role in the transaction. A wasnt acting as an agent for Mr H, but as the supplier of 
contractual rights obtained under a timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to any 
loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial 
or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr H advice or information on that basis. As far 
as Im aware, Mr H was always at liberty to choose how he wanted to fund any purchase and 
there was no requirement or duty upon H to provide funding recommendations or options.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Tandem were under any regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any suggestion 
or evidence that Mr H requested those details from Tandem. As I understand it, the typical 
amounts of commission paid by lenders (like Tandem) to suppliers (like A in this case) was 
unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a 
court would find that any non-disclosure and payment of commission created an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the circumstances of this complaint.
The allegations of pressure
The PR suggests that Mr H was pressured into entering into the timeshare and finance 
agreements. But they havent provided any explanation or evidence to support that claim. 
I can understand why it might be argued that the prolonged nature of the presentation might 
have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Mr H approached the closing stages, he 
was going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer 
that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, and in the 
absence of any explanation or evidence, I think its very difficult to say that Mr H agreed to 
the purchase at the time of the sale when he simply didnt want to. I havent seen any 
4 The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to A, after the purchase, that 
suggests hed agreed to the purchase and finance when he didnt want to. And he hasnt 
provided a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase 
within the 14-day cooling off period permitted here. 
If its suggested he only agreed to the purchase because he was pressured, I find this aspect 
difficult to reconcile. I havent seen anything substantive to suggest Mr H was obviously 
harassed or coerced into the purchase.  And because of that, Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr H made the decision to proceed because his 
ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to 
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
Maintenance Fees
The Initial Disclosure Documents provides an Outline of additional obligatory costs imposed 
under the contract and later goes onto to say that these are calculated and payable in 
accordance with the Rules of Membership and Reservations Rules and covers all items 
specified in the Rules of Membership.
As Ive already explained, not all documentation from the time of the sale has been provided 
or appears to be available. But based upon what Ive seen, I cant reasonably conclude that 
Mr H wasnt adequately or clearly told what maintenance fees would fall due or how they 
would be calculated
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable consumers 
to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they were/are put in a 
position to make an informed decision. If As disclosure and/or the terms of the purchase 
didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr H ultimately lost out or almost certainly stands 
to lose out from having entered into a contract whose financial implications he didnt fully 
understand at the time of contracting, that may amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin5 makes clear, it doesnt automatically 
follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches 
and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a 
narrow or technical way. So, its wide enough to include any ongoing exposure to unfairness 
in the future under the terms in question and how A has enforced any terms that are or might 
be unfair.
Ive not seen anything substantive to show that A enforced any of the terms in such a way as 
to result in loss for Mr H, or consequently unfairness. 
Time to consider the agreement(s)
Ive seen very limited documentation from the time of the sale. But having previously seen 
similar documents relating to As product sales, Im aware they normally include a period of 
14 days from the date of agreeing to the purchase within which to cancel the agreement 
without giving any reason  as required under the TRs.  This is confirmed in Part 3 of the 
Initial Disclosure Document.
So, even if I were to find that Mr H wasnt given adequate opportunity to read, consider and 
understand the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I make no such finding 
- I would expect him to have had sufficient time in which to consider his decision within the 
subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise any questions or concerns before the 
loan was drawn and the purchase completed. Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr H 
did raise any questions or concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that he had any 
intention of cancelling the agreement.
5 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)Furthermore, the loan agreement also includes a similar withdrawal provision which is clear 
detailed and explained at the foot of the front page of the agreement. Again, there appears 
to be no suggestion or evidence that Mr H raised any questions or concerns prior to the loan 
being drawn. Or that he had any intention of cancelling the loan agreement before it was 
drawn.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr Hs claim that could be considered outside of S75 and 
S140A. In particular, in relation to whether Tandem undertook a proper credit assessment. 
The PR have made an allegation which suggests the loan was provided irresponsibly. In 
particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by A or Tandem.
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable or unsuitable for 
him. And Ive not seen anything that supports any allegation of financial difficulty from that 
time. 
In their response, Tandem confirm the relevant checks were carried out prior to agreeing the 
finance. And that they completed an income and expenditure and were satisfied the loan 
was affordable. But I havent seen any evidence of the checks and tests they completed.
So, If I were to find they hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they 
wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr H in order 
to uphold his complaint here. However, with limited specific information provided, and no 
supporting evidence that he struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude 
the loan was unaffordable for him or that he suffered loss as a consequence.
Summary
As Ive explained, I dont think Mr H has a valid claim under S75. However, I have 
considered the claim for misrepresentation under S140A together with the other various 
allegations. Ive also considered the breach of contract claim under S75a. Having done so, I 
cant say that Tandems ultimate response to his claims appears unfair or unreasonable. And 
because of that, I wont be asking Tandem to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman