DRN-3789343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Aviva Health UK Limited let their policy lapse without a reminder.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had some life and critical illness policies with Aviva. The policies were jointly 
owned by them both but covered their individual lives. In 2017 Mr J sadly suffered from a 
stroke which led to him not being able to work. Mrs J called Aviva around that time as she 
couldnt afford the premiums. Mrs J says she believed the policies premiums were being 
covered by a Waiver of Premium (WOP) benefit. In 2021, Mr and Mrs J received a notice 
that one policy (which Ill call Mr Js policy) had premiums owed and it would need to be 
brought up to date before it would lapse. Mrs J paid the missed premiums and continued 
with the policy.
Mr and Mrs J then received a letter from Aviva relating to a different policy  one covering 
only Mrs J (which Ill call Mrs Js policy)  to say it had lapsed without value. Mrs J 
complained as she felt she ought to have been reminded in the same way as Mr Js policy 
and shed then be able to continue the cover. Aviva said that as premiums hadnt been paid 
for over 13 months there wasnt an option to reinstate it. Aviva explained that the WOP 
benefit for Mrs Js policy expired in 2011 and so once the fund value had been used up, the 
policy had lapsed.
Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She explained that Aviva had 
done enough in 2017 to show Mr and Mrs J that Mrs Js policy would lapse after a certain 
time if premiums werent paid and this is what happened.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. Mrs J said that it was a difficult period of their lives and Aviva cant 
show that it provided a reminder or an option to reinstate her policy. Mrs J believes that 
WOP was put in place for her policy and feels Aviva has done something wrong. Shes 
asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision so its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for similar reasons but I hope I can 
explain, in detail, why I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs J faced in 2017, the effects of which I 
understand are ongoing. But I think its important to set out that the policy that Mrs J is 
complaining about  that covers her life only  was different to Mr Js policy which they were 
able to reinstate. This is because Mrs Js policy had a WOP benefit that had expired. I can 
see that in 2010 Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs J to explain the benefit was about to expire so 
Im satisfied that it didnt apply to her policy.
As Mr and Mrs J had a number of policies with Aviva, I can understand how there may have 
been confusion on both sides. And whilst I havent heard the phone calls from 2017, its 
likely WOP was mentioned  because it appears Mr and Mrs J needed to stop paying 
premiums on more than just Mrs Js policy. I cant be sure if WOP was mentioned relating to 
Mrs Js policy so Ive looked to see whether Aviva did enough to show Mr and Mrs J that the 
policy would lapse.
I can see that in April 2017 Aviva sent Mr and Mrs J an Overdue Premiums Statement for 
Mrs Js policy which said if premiums stay unpaid it could result in cancellation of the policy. 
Mrs J refers to a reminder that she received for Mr Js policy in 2021 and complains that she 
didnt receive the same for her policy. Ive looked at this letter for Mr Js policy and its the 
same as the letter she received in 2017 for her policy  an overdue premiums statement. Its 
just that premiums for Mr Js policy had been paid over the years, potentially due to WOP  
but, as explained above, this benefit didnt apply to Mrs Js policy. So, I cant say that Aviva 
have failed to tell her about her policy lapsing.
In addition to the overdue premiums statement, Aviva sent Mr and Mrs J a letter following 
her call in May 2017  which presumably was made after receiving the overdue premiums 
statement in April. This letter said how long the cover would last until Mrs Js policy reaches 
zero fund value and lapses. It shows different lengths of time depending on the growth rate 
with the shortest being three years and eight months. I think this gave Mr and Mrs J 
indication that Mrs Js policy would lapse without value if premiums remained unpaid. And as 
Ive said above Ive seen evidence that shows Mr and Mrs J were told in 2010 that the WOP 
benefit was expiring on her policy, so there was nothing in place to cover those premiums.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that the policy cannot be reinstated, but I do 
need to point out that as the premiums havent been paid since 2017, it would cost a 
substantial amount to reinstate it. And given the situation Mr and Mrs J were in at the time, I 
think its likely Mrs Js policy wouldve always lapsed even if there hadnt been any confusion 
over the WOP benefit, or if shed received the reminder letter. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs J 
would be in a different position. And I can see the policy lapsed in line with the terms.
I do understand this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs J, but I do hope Ive explained 
why Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman