DRN-4116670
The complaint
Mr S complains Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) took too long to transfer his 
defined benefit (DB) pension, causing him a significant financial loss.
 
What happened
In September 2021, Mr S was introduced to Grove by another independent financial adviser 
(IFA), as Mr S was interested in transferring his DB pension benefits to a personal pension. 
Mr S already had a transfer value dated 23 August 2021, which valued his DB scheme 
benefits at £734,459.67 and was guaranteed for three months. The introducing IFA asked 
Grove to treat Mr Ss transfer as a buddy transfer with another client. 
Grove explained to Mr S that DB transfers were very slow to process and could take up to 
three months to gather all the information required and provide a full recommendation, then 
up to a further three months to complete a transfer after all the information was returned. 
Grove also told Mr S it would provide advice in two stages. The first was abridged advice, 
which would be free of charge and result in two outcomes; either advice not to transfer or 
that more information was needed. If more information was needed, it would proceed to 
provide full advice, which Mr S would be charged for.
In November 2021, the trustees of the DB scheme that Mr S was a member of arranged for 
a buyout transfer of the scheme to an insurer. 
On 4 November 2021, Grove sent Mr S its abridged advice. Its advice was that the 
information collected at this stage meant it was unclear if a transfer was suitable, and full 
advice would be needed to determine this. Soon after, Mr S agreed to proceed to full advice. 
In January 2022, Grove decided to no longer include Mr S in a buddy transfer. On 
15 February 2022, Grove sent Mr S its full advice report. It recommended staying in his DB 
scheme, as transferring would likely leave him worse off, there were no reasons to outweigh 
this and justify a transfer, and he could reconsider transferring when closer to his desired 
retirement age. 
But Mr S still wanted to transfer his DB pension. In May 2022, Mr S provided Grove with an 
insistent client letter and the updated transfer value of £628,548.19 hed got from the 
insurer now responsible for his DB scheme benefits. 
On 7 June 2022, Grove emailed Mr S to confirm it would accept him as an insistent client. 
Mr S returned the required paperwork to Grove on 27 June 2022, and Grove contacted the 
DB insurer. Mr S says the insurer sent him a new transfer value of £519,834.45 on 
12 August 2022. Mr S forwarded this to Grove on 15 August 2022.
This new transfer value was significantly less than the previous ones, so on 16 August 2022 
Grove told Mr S it wanted to review its advice and its assessment of him as an insistent 
client. But before it could do so, Mr S signed the forms required by the DB insurer for a 
transfer, and Mr S says the transfer was completed on 26 August 2022.
Mr S complained Grove had told him the transfer would take between three to six months, 
but it had in fact taken eleven months. He said this delay caused him a financial loss, as his 
transfer value had fallen over this time. 
Grove explained that the transfer process was thorough and time-consuming, and made 
more difficult here by the introducing IFAs request to include Mr S in a buddy transfer and 
by Mr Ss DB scheme being transferred as a buyout to an insurer. Grove said the insurer 
didnt guarantee the transfer value of Mr Ss DB scheme benefits; instead, it calculated the 
transfer value at the point of transfer. Grove acknowledged there had been delays but 
thought these were caused by other parties involved in the process. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to our Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint, as she thought Grove hadnt caused any unnecessary delays. 
Mr S disagreed. He said 18 weeks of delay was caused by Grove including him in a buddy 
transfer and suggested it shouldve stopped this sooner. But our Investigator said shed not 
seen that Grove caused any delay regarding this and it was for the introducing IFA to have 
advised Mr S on this matter. 
Mr S passed us comments from the introducing IFA. It said its involvement was simply to 
gather information, which it submitted to Grove along with a request for a buddy transfer. But 
Grove was completely responsible for advising Mr S, and the introducing IFA never advised 
him about the DB transfer or the buddy transfer. 
Our Investigator didnt change her view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
came to me to consider. I contacted both parties informally to explain why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S didnt provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Grove responded to say that by the time Mr S instructed Grove to proceed to full advice, 
there then wasnt enough time for Grove to carry out all the required work before the original 
transfer value expired. And Groves full advice was that Mr S shouldnt transfer his DB 
scheme benefits, so Mr Ss wish to continue against Groves advice would necessarily take 
more time.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Groves actions here.PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
And having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. I realise this isnt the answer he 
hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons by looking at each part of the process Mr S and Grove 
went through. 
 
Abridged advice
When Mr S was introduced to Grove in late September 2021, his original transfer value only 
had about two of the three months it was guaranteed for left before it expired. And I note 
Grove explained to Mr S that, It is imperative that you understand dealing with Defined 
Benefit pension transfers is a very slow process and can take up to around three months to 
gather all the information required and provide a full recommendation, and if you proceed, up 
to a further three months to complete a transfer after all the forms have been returned - 
please manage your expectations accordingly.
Grove then needed information from Mr S and his DB scheme provider, and this took time to 
gather, review and consider. In particular, I note that on 15 October 2021, the DB scheme 
provider told Grove it had previously provided Mr S a transfer pack along with the transfer 
value. Grove asked Mr S for this pack the same day, and later sent Mr S a reminder. But 
Grove didnt receive the transfer pack from Mr S until 28 October 2021. 
Grove was providing Mr S with abridged advice; so, in accordance with COBS 19.1A, its 
abridged advice could only result in two outcomes. Either it would recommend Mr S 
remained in his DB scheme or it would tell him it needed more information to determine 
whether a transfer was in his best interests. 
In providing abridged advice, Grove was not permitted to carry out appropriate pension 
transfer analysis, which would include comparing the benefits payable from the DB scheme 
with an alternative arrangement. So, Groves role at the abridged advice stage was limited to 
considering Mr Ss circumstances and objectives to determine whether he should remain in 
his DB scheme or whether it needed more information to make that decision. And when 
making its recommendation, Grove had to be mindful that COBS 19.1.6G states that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. Groves abridged 
advice was that the information collected at this stage meant it was unclear if a transfer was 
suitable for Mr S, and full advice would be needed to determine this. 
Given all this, Im satisfied that the five weeks or so between Grove accepting Mr S as a 
client and providing him with its abridged advice wasnt an unreasonably long time for Grove 
to have taken. 
Full advice
Grove received Mr Ss agreement to proceed to full advice on 12 November 2021. By then, 
Mr Ss transfer value was due to expire soon, on around 23 November 2021. Its important to stress that Groves role here wasnt simply to transact what Mr S wanted it to 
do. Its role was to advise Mr S and recommend what it believed was in his best interests. 
And to do this, it needed to carry out a full pension transfer analysis, which would include 
comparing the DB benefits payable with an alternative arrangement, and set out its 
recommendations and reasons in a suitability report for Mr S. So, its not reasonable to think 
Grove could have provided Mr S with its full advice before the original, and guaranteed, 
transfer value expired. Especially since the introducing IFA had asked Grove to treat Mr S as 
a buddy transfer with another of the introducers clients. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for Grove to have taken account of the buddy transfer 
request, as it meant Mr S might be able to preserve some of the protected rights his DB 
scheme perhaps gave him. But this meant Grove wasnt able to advise Mr S until it had all 
the information it needed in relation to all the clients in the buddy transfer. Mr S suggests 
Grove should have decided much sooner to remove him from the buddy transfer, so Ive 
thought about this. 
Ive seen that Grove updated Mr S on 19 November 2021 to say As we are looking to 
proceed with a buddy transfer we are ready to do the analysis on your case however we 
cant proceed as of yet because we are looking to finalise other cases. Once we are in a 
position to proceed we will finalise your case and keep you update [sic]. In the meantime if 
you have any other questions please do let me know and I will be happy to help. Grove 
provided similar updates to Mr S on 21 December 2021 and 7 January 2022.
As I say, Groves role was to advise Mr S and recommend what it believed was in his best 
interests. Grove says that a buddy transfer would have allowed Mr S to keep his protected 
retirement age of 50, so Mr S had something valuable to gain from a buddy transfer. 
Therefore, I think it was fair and reasonable for Grove to progress the buddy transfer. And, 
I think the updates Grove sent to Mr S on 19 November 2021, 21 December 2021 and 
7 January 2022 made clear that the buddy transfer was the reason things werent 
proceeding for Mr S yet and that he could contact Grove about that if he wanted to. So I 
think that if Mr S was concerned for Grove to speed things up in relation to the buddy 
transfer, he could have contacted Grove about that. But Ive seen nothing to make me think 
Mr S did so. 
Instead, Grove says it removed Mr S from the buddy transfer in January 2022, as the other 
client in the buddy transfer was then closer to their schemes normal retirement age. Grove 
then sent Mr S its full advice recommendation report on 15 February 2022, which made clear 
that it thought transferring his DB pension wasnt in his best interests. 
Weighing all this up, Im not persuaded Grove caused unnecessary delays here.
Insistent client
Once Grove had provided Mr S with its full advice, it wasnt obliged to take things any further 
for Mr S. It was instead for Mr S to take further action if he still wanted to transfer his DB 
pension benefits against Groves advice. From the evidence Ive been provided with, I can 
see that Grove sent Mr S reminders in March 2022 that hed need to provide it with an 
insistent client letter if he wanted to transfer his DB benefits against its advice - for clarity, 
this letter was something that the regulator required Grove to obtain from Mr S. Mr S 
explained to Grove that hed been unwell, and sent it his insistent client letter on 
5 May 2022. 
On 9 May 2022, Grove asked Mr S for an updated transfer value from his DB insurer so 
Grove could assess whether it would accept Mr S as an insistent client. Mr S provided the transfer value of £628,548.19 to Grove on 30 May 2022. And on 7 June 2022, Grove 
emailed Mr S to confirm it would accept him as an insistent client, then provided him with the 
necessary documents and identification requirements. So I dont think Grove caused any 
unnecessary delays while it was assessing whether it would accept Mr S as an insistent 
client.
Transfer of funds
Mr S returned the required documents to Grove on 27 June 2022, and Grove contacted the 
DB insurer. Mr S says the insurer sent him a new transfer value of £519,834.45 on 
12 August 2022. Mr S forwarded this to Grove on 15 August 2022. The next day, Grove 
contacted Mr S about this, saying it wanted to review its advice and whether it should accept 
Mr S as an insistent client before proceeding, given this significant fall in value. Grove 
explained to Mr S that he hadnt yet lost any pension value, as he didnt have to transfer. 
That the value would very likely increase in the medium to longer term, and Mr S had at least 
three years yet before his desired retirement age. And even if the value didnt increase 
enough to make a transfer financially viable, Mr Ss DB benefits werent affected and could 
be taken from age 55 with no investment risk, the option to take a lump sum, and a 
guaranteed income for life. Grove asked Mr S for his thoughts ahead of its review, but said a 
decrease in transfer value made it more likely Grove would no longer accept Mr S as an 
insistent client. 
Given the significantly lower value, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Grove to 
want to review the situation and contact Mr S about that. Thats because it had an 
overarching obligation to act in Mr Ss best interests and ensure he understood the 
consequences of his actions. But in any case, Mr S had made his own decision to progress 
the transfer with the DB insurer, and says the funds were transferred on 26 August 2022. 
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that Grove caused any significant 
unnecessary delays during the transfer process. 
In summary, while its unfortunate that Mr Ss transfer took eleven months from start to 
finish, I dont think that was caused by any significant unnecessary delay on Groves part. 
Overall, I think Grove completed each stage of the process in a reasonable time period 
without significant unnecessary delay. Therefore, Im not asking Grove to do anything here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman