DRN-1624116
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application.
What happened
Mr H applied for a credit card with Vanquis in July 2016. In the application, Mr H said he was 
working full time and earned £24,000. Vanquis reviewed the application and looked at Mr Hs 
credit file. Vanquis approved the application and gave Mr H a credit card with a £250 limit. 
Around a year later Mr H experienced financial difficulties and had trouble maintaining the 
payments. Mr H asked Vanquis to accept payments of £10 a month but, instead, it sent him 
an income and expenditure form to complete. Vanquis didnt receive a completed income 
and expenditure form which meant no agreement to make reduced payments was reached 
and Mr Hs credit card was defaulted a short time later. 
Last year, Mr H complained to Vanquis about its decision to lend. He said that the 
information on his credit file shouldve shown that a credit card wasnt affordable. Vanquis 
responded on 8 May 2019 but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly or made a mistake. Mr H 
asked our service to look at his complaint and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Vanquis had responded to Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that the information that was showing on his credit file in July 2016 
should've been sufficient to have warned Vanquis that a new credit card wasnt affordable. 
Our investigator asked Mr H to send us a full copy of his credit file so we could have a look 
at the information it contains but it hasnt been supplied. But in its final response dated 8 
May 2019 Vanquis confirms that it completed a credit search and found Mr H had historic 
adverse credit including County Court Judgements (CCJ) and defaults. Vanquis says that 
prior to Mr Hs application in July 2016, just under three years had passed since any new 
adverse credit had been registered. 
Vanquis accepts customers with some adverse credit. So historic CCJs and defaults arent 
necessarily a barrier to taking out a credit card. Im satisfied that Vanquis did a credit search 
on Mr H and took his credit history into account before it decided to lend.
Before a business agrees to lend it should complete proportionate checks to ensure the 
repayments are sustainable. In this case, Vanquis looked at Mr Hs credit file. It also looked 
at the information he provided in the application form that said he was employed and earned 
around £24,000. Vanquis then applied its lending criteria to the application and took the 
decision to proceed. I appreciate Mr H wasnt subsequently able to maintain the payments 
due to financial difficulties he experienced. But that appears to have happened around a year after the card was approved. I also note the credit limit was set reasonably low which 
limited the impact of the repayments due. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H but I think Vanquis did complete proportionate 
checks before deciding to proceed with his credit card application. I'm satisfied 
Vanquis' decision to approve the credit card with a £250 limit was in line with its lending 
criteria and reasonable, based on what it knew about Mr H at the time. 
As I havent found that Vanquis lent irresponsibly Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman