DRN-2765504
The complaint
Mr W and Miss S are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them 
with a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 3 March 2020, Mr W and Miss S purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
covering them for holidays up to 50 days at one time in Europe. Following this, on 18 March 
2020, Miss S contacted Great Lakes, to declare a newly diagnosed medical condition. So, 
Mr W and Miss S policy was amended to reflect this, and a £10 administration fee for the 
alteration was charged.
Mr W and Miss S paid £93.62 for the policy, which included the £10 administration fee, and 
discount on the policy of £8.00. The policy covered Mr W and Miss S from 3 March 2020, 
until 2 March 2021, when cover would end. And it included cover for the one medical 
condition Mr W and Miss S declared.
On 29 June 2020, because of the coronavirus pandemic, and its impact on travel, Mr W and 
Miss S contacted Great Lakes to cancel their insurance policy and request a refund of the 
full premium paid.
Great Lakes said it could cancel the policy for Mr W and Miss S  and offer them a pro-rata 
refund. But this would be in the form of a credit voucher worth £54, rather than in monetary 
form. 
Mr W and Miss S were told they could then use this voucher to buy a new annual multi- trip 
insurance policy. The new policy would cover them for a period of 15 months, for the price of 
12 months, based on the market rates at the time of purchase.
Mr W and Miss S didnt want to accept the voucher offered. And so, they raised a complaint 
about how Great Lakes had handled their request for a cash refund of the premium. 
Great Lakes looked into Mr W and Miss S concerns and said it wouldnt be providing them 
with a cash refund for their policy. It explained that Mr W and Miss S had benefitted from 
cover under the policy, from when it was purchased on 3 March 2020, until it was cancelled 
on 29 June 2020. And, it highlighted that the terms and conditions of Mr W and Miss S 
policy said that no refund would be provided, if the 14 day cooling-off period had elapsed 
when the policy was cancelled.
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer Mr W and Miss S a credit voucher towards;
A new annual multi trip policy. The policy would be a 15-month policy, for the price of 
a 12 month one, at the current market rates.
A deferred annual policy. Mr W and Miss S could purchase this 12-month policy, at 
the current market rates. And could then chose to start the cover any time within 12 
months of purchasing the policy.
A UK only annual multi trip policy, with, subject to terms and conditions, the potential 
to upgrade the destination on the policy at a later date.
Mr W and Miss S didnt feel this was fair. They said they hadnt received any benefit under 
the policy, and so had paid for cover they hadnt received. And, Mr W and Miss S explained 
that other travel insurers had provided a cash refund, rather than a pro-rata voucher. 
Because Mr W and Miss S remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 3 March 2020 and the 
policy covered various risks during from that point, until the policy was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr W and Miss S with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium from the date Mr W and Miss S first requested cancellation 
of the policy on 29 June 2020, to the end date of the policy on 2 March 2021. 
The investigator also clarified that the above offers would be valid indefinitely, but that this 
could change at any point. And, it was confirmed that once one of the above options were 
selected, the new policy would need to be bought immediately.
 
Mr W and Miss S didnt agree. They still felt they should receive a cash refund, as opposed 
to a voucher. And they noted they had paid a full years premium without gaining any cover. 
Mr W and Miss S said they already had insurance for another holiday in 2022  and had lost 
trust in Great Lakes. They also highlighted that other insurers were offering pro-rata cash 
refunds. 
Because Mr W and Miss S didnt agree their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr W and 
Miss S.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. Whilst I can appreciate why Mr W and Miss 
S wanted to cancel their insurance policy, I dont think their reasons for cancelling the policy 
reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this 
because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr W and Miss S have said they didnt receive any cover under the policy. But I dont agree. 
They were insured from 3 March 2020, when they took out their travel insurance policy, until 
they cancelled it, on 29 June 2020. And this cover was for any number of trips they took, up 
to 50 days in duration. At this point, whether Mr W and Miss S went on any trips or not, 
Great Lakes were covering the risk of a claim occurring. And the premiums charged to them, 
reflected this. So, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide a 
refund for this period of cover.
Mr W and Miss S cancelled their policy on 29 June 2020.  Because of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Mr W and Miss S were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any claim 
under their insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk under 
the policy from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the policy 
from that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and unprecedented, 
I do think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr W and Miss S with a 
pro-rata refund, from 29 June 2020, to the policy end date of 2 March 2021. I do appreciate understand Mr W and Miss S feel that the refund should be paid to them in 
cash, rather than in a voucher. And they have noted that other insurers have provided a 
cash refund  thats a commercial decision those insurers are entitled to take. But that 
doesnt mean the provision of a voucher is an unfair or unreasonable offer for Great Lakes to 
make. 
Im satisfied a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund here. I agree with the 
investigator that the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr W and Miss S arent 
unreasonably restrictive as theyve been offered different options. And whilst Mr W and Miss 
S have said theyve got alternative cover for a holiday in 2022, Im satisfied they would be 
able to use it for other trips, whether in the UK or abroad, given the terms and conditions of 
the voucher  including the ability to defer it by 12 months.
Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is fair and I dont think Great Lakes has 
treated Mr W and Miss S differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes calculated the voucher amount 
from the date Mr W and Miss S first called about cancelling the policy  29 June 2020, to the 
date the policy was due to end, 2 March 2021. This meant there would be 247 days of the 
policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £54 of the premium 
paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 247 days after the 
policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr W and Miss S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman