DRN-3663060
The complaint
Mr H complains about the poor service he received from Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited (HSDL) in connection with his ISA account. Hes also unhappy with the way it 
has handled his complaints about what happened. To put things right, Mr H wants 
HSDL to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr H complained about HSDL having attempted to phone him on two occasions in 
November 2021 after he had told HSDL in July 2021 he wanted to be contacted by post 
only. 
Mr H also complained that he didnt receive any of the following after requesting all of these:
terms and conditions for his stocks and shares ISA account
trade confirmation documents for purchases in his ISA 
his instructions held by HSDL relating to his ISA. 
And Mr H was unhappy with the way HSDL had responded to his complaints about these 
issues.
On 4 November 2021, HSDL sent a final response letter to Mr H. HSDL said it was sorry 
that Mr H had cause to complain about its service but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In 
brief summary it said: 
it couldnt locate any request for the ISA terms and conditions to be sent  but now 
included those with its response
it wasnt able to identify a request from him for trade confirmation documents in 
relation to purchases initiated and undertaken in relation to his existing Stocks and 
Shares ISA, but was more than happy to provide the documentation he required if 
Mr H could confirm exactly which contract notes he required
HSDL confirmed that it didnt hold any active instructions to trade on his behalf. 
On 17 November 2021, HSDL sent a further final response letter. It apologised for having 
mistakenly referred in a letter to having had a telephone call with Mr H on 29 October 2021. 
There had been no such phone call. HSDL ought to have said it had received a letter from 
Mr H that day. HSDL acknowledged that its service had fallen short of expectations and 
sincerely apologised. HSDL gave an assurance that Mr Hs comments had been noted and 
said feedback would be provided to the staff member concerned. 
Mr H didnt think HSDL had fully investigated his complaints so he brought his 
complaints to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt find that 
the impact of receiving missed calls was enough to warrant compensation under our 
guidelines and she felt HSDL had responded reasonably to Mr Hs requests for the 
paperwork and notes he had asked for. 
Mr H didnt agree. He told us that he had wasted time and resources, including having to 
refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He had suffered stress, annoyance 
and upset as a result and disruption to his personal and financial affairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator for 
the following reasons and I dont require HSDL to take any action. Ill explain why.
The phone calls
HSDL said that in the course of dealing with another complaint matter in July 2021, Mr H 
had made HSDL aware that he didnt want to speak further on the phone. 
 
Its not in dispute that HSDL attempted twice to phone Mr H on 4 November 2021. 
I can see that Mr H found this very vexing  and looking at things from his point of view, it 
was the latest in a series of concerns and frustrations that had occurred during his dealings 
with HSDL. So I can understand his strength of feeling about this.  
But I must be impartial and look at things from both sides. 
HSDL has said that it deals with complaints on a case-by-case basis. So, unless 
communication preferences are made clear with each complaint, HSDL may look to discuss 
the issue at hand. It said it doesnt offer a personalised service. I understand this to mean 
that it has a standard approach which often means using the phone as the first and main 
point of contact. That seems reasonable to me, as this is often the quickest and most direct 
way to get things resolved so its a generally of benefit to customers. 
HSDL also said it doesnt have any way to mark individual accounts to show that the 
customer isnt to be called on the phone. Im mindful also that HSDL tried to contact Mr H 
specifically in order to discuss his information requests and help sort out his queries and 
concerns  so the contact was well-intentioned. 
My role is to decide if HSDL acted fairly and reasonably. Its not part of my remit to comment 
on HSDLs internal processes. I cant fairly say the complaint handler who tried to call Mr H 
shouldve had reason to think HSDL ought not phone Mr H in response to his complaint, if 
theres no way for HSDL to record Mr Hs communication preferences on individual customer 
records, when this is its standard approach to complaint handling. Mr H hadnt included this 
information in his complaint letter dated 28 October 2021.  
I hope this explanation helps Mr H feel able to accept that it appears HSDL didnt 
deliberately disregard his communication instructions.
Alternatively, even if I were to say that, having been made aware of Mr Hs wish to receive 
communication only by post then HSDL should not have phoned him, it doesnt follow that 
financial compensation is due.
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach to redress. Briefly, I would need to decide what the impact on Mr H had been as a 
result of HSDL making an error by phoning him rather than writing a letter.I've taken into account what Mr H has told us about the way hes been left feeling as a result 
of what happened and the impact on him of having to deal with this complaint. But whilst 
I can understand why he was frustrated by HSDLs attempts to reach him by phone, he 
didnt answer either of the calls and HSDL didnt leave any voicemail messages. So I think 
it's fair to say that the impact of HSDL phoning him against his wishes was limited. Mr H 
hasnt shown me that he suffered any actual financial loss as a result. And since Mr H was 
able to avoid having to engage in any discussion on the phone, which is what he wanted, 
I dont feel I can fairly say that what happened warrants any payment of compensation. 
The documents and information requests
HSDL said it didnt receive Mr Hs letter requesting HSDL to send him terms and conditions, 
trade confirmation documents for purchases within his ISA and copies of the instructions 
from Mr H that HSDL held on record for him relating to his ISA.
Ive reviewed all the available information provided to me. Like our investigator, I cant see 
anything to show that HSDL had unfairly or unreasonably overlooked these requests prior to 
Mr H formally complaining on 28 October 2021.
HSDL then sent him the terms and conditions within a week (on 4 November 2021), which 
I think was a reasonable timescale. It also attempted to address Mr Hs other requests  it 
asked him to clarify which trades he wanted confirmation for and explained it needed this 
information to action his request. HSDL confirmed it held no active instructions relating to his 
ISA.
Overall, I find no evidence that HSDL delayed unreasonably in dealing with Mr Hs requests 
for the above paperwork and information from its notes or that it acted unfairly towards him 
in any other way concerning these matters. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that HSDL didnt investigate these complaints 
thoroughly. I think it was sometimes hard for HSDL to keep on top of Mr Hs various 
complaints as he expressed concern about a range of (sometimes overlapping) issues 
and he continued to send letters  some of which crossed in the post. Possibly HSDLs 
final responses to his complaint may have been briefer than Mr H was hoping for, but 
I think HSDL did answer the main points hed raised concerning the complaints I have 
outlined above. 
I am aware that Mr H has other outstanding complaints against HSDL I dont propose to 
deal with those here as they are the subject of separate investigations. I have concentrated 
on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman