DRN-3090581
The complaint
Miss J and Mr S have complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt 
with a claim under their home insurance policy.
All references to Fairmead include contractors acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
Miss J and Mr S found water leaking through a ceiling. A plumber found a leak from a pipe 
for their shower, which was within the bathroom wall. Miss J and Mr S made an insurance 
claim for the damage. Fairmead accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement to repair 
the damage.
Miss J and Mr S complained to Fairmead. They said the cash settlement wasnt enough for 
them to carry out the work. They also said there had been delays and issues with speaking 
to Fairmead about settling the claim. When Fairmead replied it said the amount it had 
offered to settle the claim, £2,992.82, was in line with its contractors costs. It accepted that 
there had been issues with the claim, including when the claim was first registered, when it 
asked Miss J and Mr S to obtain quotes and with the overall communication around the 
claim. It offered £100 compensation.
When Miss J and Mr S complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. 
She said, in the circumstances, Fairmead should pay to settle the claim at the cost to Miss J 
and Mr S and to replace the bathroom suite. It should also contribute 50% towards the 
undamaged bathroom tiles and pay a £10 disturbance allowance per adult per day and 
increase the compensation to £500.
As Fairmead didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Miss J and Mr S made a claim for damage as the result of a water leak. Fairmead offered a 
cash settlement for the damage. However, Miss J and Mr S said the cash settlement was too 
low. So, they were asked to get some quotes for the work. Fairmead said the quotes were 
too high so said it would settle the claim at the amount its contractor had quoted. At this 
point, Fairmead also seems to have offered the option of it carrying out the work. Miss J and 
Mr S agreed to Fairmead carrying out the work, but said they were told there was a 12-week 
waiting period before works could start. Miss J and Mr S reluctantly agreed to accept a cash 
settlement.
I asked Fairmead about the potential delay in works starting. Both Fairmead and a contractor 
couldnt say one way or the other what had been said about timescales for the work to start. 
Ive compared Fairmeads and Miss J and Mr Ss explanations of what happened throughout 
the claim. These accounts are similar, although sometimes differ in levels of detail. So, Ive 
no reason to doubt the accuracy of what Miss J and Mr S said about the wait time and I 
havent seen anything from Fairmead that suggests to me they werent told there would be a 
long wait time. So, I think its more likely than not that Miss J and Mr S were told there would 
be a 12-week delay to start the work. On that basis, Im not persuaded that Fairmead 
offering to do the work was a realistic option. Miss J and Mr S only had one bathroom in their 
home and by agreeing to Fairmead carrying out the work, they were also agreeing to living 
with continued disruption to their lives for about three months before the work could even 
start. I dont think that was fair or reasonable and I can understand that Miss J and Mr S 
therefore reluctantly accepted a cash settlement.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
explains the rules for claims handling. ICOBS 8.1.1 (4) requires an insurer to settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Miss J and Mr S did agree to Fairmeads 
contractor carrying out the work but I dont think a three month delay to that work starting 
could reasonably be considered to be prompt. So, on that basis, I think the only settlement 
Miss J and Mr S were realistically offered was a cash settlement. 
Where an insurer only offers a cash settlement, the amount needs to reflect the cost to the 
policyholder of repairing the damage. In this instance, Fairmead offered Miss J and Mr S the 
amount it would cost it to have the work carried out, but I dont think that was fair or restored 
them to the position they were in before they made the claim. As a result, I think Fairmead 
needs to pay the cost to Miss J and Mr S for repairing the damage.
There was also disagreement about what should be covered as part of the claim. So, Ive 
also looked at this. The damage was in the shower cubicle and to the tiles, rather than to the 
bathroom as a whole. When Miss J and Mr S provided Fairmead with quotes for the work, 
these included replacing the full bathroom suite. 
Reading the policy documents, this didnt provide cover for matching items that formed part 
of a suite. Looking at the photos, Im also not persuaded that the shower cubicle was part of 
a matching set with the other items. So, I dont think Fairmead had reason to consider a 
contribution towards the other items because of any loss of match. 
For the bathroom tiles, when Fairmead replied to Miss J and Mr Ss complaint it said:
 our claims team  advised that we would include a 50% contribution for the undamaged 
matching bathroom tiles.
Unfortunately this was incorrect as [the contractor] had already included full replacement for 
the tiling in their scope of works.
Following our investigator issuing her findings, Fairmead confirmed again that the amount it 
offered was to pay for all the bathroom tiles to be replaced. Fairmeads records also showed 
that the surveyor had concluded all the tiles needed to be replaced. So, on that basis, I think 
Fairmead needs to pay for replacing all the bathroom tiles at the cost to Miss J and Mr S for 
doing so.
However, Im aware that when the bathroom work was carried out, Miss J and Mr S said the 
bathroom suite couldnt then be refitted. So, they wanted Fairmead to pay for other items 
such as a new shower unit, tray and controls, bath and basin. Fairmead has said it should 
have been possible to remove each of the items and then refit them. I would agree that I 
would generally expect this to be the case. But I have to decide what I think is reasonable in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
Miss J and Mr S have described how some of the original items were fitted and some of the 
issues with removing them. Looking at the shower first, Miss J and Mr S have said the 
shower tray couldnt be refitted because it had been concreted in place and so there was no way of removing it without damaging it. Miss J and Mr S havent been able to provide further 
evidence to show the damage to the shower tray, so I need to make a decision based on the 
evidence. Miss J and Mr S have said the shower tray was secured using concrete. Im also 
aware that some shower trays are installed using concrete or mortar. So I think its credible 
that the shower tray was secured in that way. Depending on how well it was secured, the 
tray could have been damaged when it was removed and meant it couldnt be refitted. Based 
on the limited evidence available to me, I currently intend to say that Fairmead should pay 
for a new shower tray. Given that, I also dont think it would have been realistic to refit the 
previous shower enclosure, so I also intend to say that Fairmead should pay for a new 
shower enclosure. 
Ive also thought about the shower controls and shower head. Ive seen photos of the 
shower head mixed in with debris in the shower tray. I havent seen anything that suggested 
to me that the shower controls or shower head werent working because of the leak itself. I 
think if the shower controls and shower head werent reusable this was more likely because 
of them being left in the debris, rather than them being damaged as a result of the water leak 
itself. So, I dont currently intend to say that Fairmead should pay to replace the shower 
controls or shower head.
Ive also looked at the bath. This had tiles around it, including at each end and on the bath 
panel. Miss J and Mr S said:
The bath was tiled in but not to the underside of the bath edge, but to the outer lippings 
which meant the bath was fully enclosed with a timber frame which was boarded with 18mm 
ply and then tiled on top of. There is no way of removing this without causing damage
Ive also seen a photo of the bath when the tiles had been removed. This seemed to show 
some markings at one end, where the tiles met the edge of the bath. Its my understanding 
that Miss J and Mr S were having the whole bathroom refitted as part of the work anyway. 
So, they didnt decide to change the bath as a direct result of any damage that happened 
while the works were taking place. This meant the bath was always going to be removed and 
disposed of, so I think it was less likely that the person doing the work would have taken 
specific care not to damage the bath. I havent seen anything that persuades me that 
damage was inevitable. So, Im not currently persuaded that it wasnt possible to remove the 
bath without damaging it and then refitting it. As a result, I dont currently intend to say 
Fairmead should pay to replace the bath. The quote also included costs to replace items 
such as the basin and radiator, which are listed in the builders quote, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest these items couldnt have been removed and then refitted.
So, I currently intend to say that Fairmead should pay for each of the items listed in its own 
scope of works, but at the amount it cost Miss J and Mr S to have the work carried out, with 
the addition of the cost to replace the shower tray and shower enclosure. 
As well as the cost of the items, there was also the cost of the labour. For the quote that 
Miss J and Mr S accepted, the labour cost £4,860, including VAT. Another quote listed the 
labour as £3,000 plus VAT, so £3,600. Miss J and Mr S said they went with the higher quote 
as the other builder was booked up and the delays they experienced during the claim meant 
they needed to get the repairs carried out as soon as possible. In the circumstances, I think 
the fairest way to resolve this is for Fairmead to pay the average of the two quotes for the 
labour. So, £4,230, inclusive of VAT. Fairmead must also pay interest on the difference 
between the amount it has already paid and the new settlement amount from the date on 
which Miss J and Mr S paid the invoice for the work, as they lost use of the money from that 
date.Ive also thought about whether any of the labour costs should be deducted. But I dont 
currently think they should, given the vast majority of the work, such as removing the bath 
and fitting it, would have had to happen whether it was the same bath being refitted or a new 
one being installed. 
Ive thought about whether Fairmead should pay a disturbance allowance. Although, Miss J 
and Mr Ss shower was damaged, I havent seen anything that suggests to me that they 
were left without a working bathroom following the leak itself. However, when the works were 
carried out to repair the damage, they didnt have access to their only bathroom. So, I think 
Fairmead should have offered a disturbance allowance as part of the cash settlement. 
Im aware that Miss J and Mr S were unable to have the work carried out all in one go 
because they couldnt afford to pay for it all. However, as I dont think Fairmead was 
responsible for paying all of the costs, I dont think it would be fair for me to say it was 
entirely responsible for that or to base the disturbance allowance on the actual time taken. 
Im not an expert on installing bathrooms, but looking at the work involved, I think it would be 
fair to allow 12 days for the work, taking into account what was involved and allowing two 
weeks for the work split by a weekend. There were two adults living at the property and 
Fairmead should pay £10 per adult per day, which is £240.
Ive also thought about compensation. Fairmead accepted there were delays during the 
claim and issues with asking for the quotes. It paid £100 compensation. I think Fairmead 
should increase this to £400 compensation. This is because although it offered to carry out 
the work, it seemed to do this without a realistic prospect of being able to do so for some 
considerable time, which I think put Miss J and Mr S in a difficult position. As a result of the 
way Fairmead then settled the claim, based on how much it would have cost it to carry out 
the work, Miss J and Mr S said they then had to borrow money from family in order to start 
the work. I think this will have increased Miss J and Mr Ss distress about the claim and that 
£400 more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 October 2021. Both parties replied before that date and accepted the findings in my 
provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, as I havent seen any reason to depart from that decision.
  
Putting things right
Fairmead must pay for the items as listed in its scope of works but at the cost to Miss J and 
Mr S, plus the costs of the new shower tray and shower enclosure and pay £4,230 inclusive 
of VAT for the labour costs. It must pay interest on the amount it now pays to fully settle the 
claim. Fairmead must also pay a disturbance allowance and compensation, as described in 
my decision.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay for the items as listed in Fairmead Insurance Limiteds scope of works, but at the 
cost to Miss J and Mr S for it, with the addition of the cost of the new shower tray and 
shower enclosure.
Pay for the labour at a cost of £4,230 inclusive of VAT.
Pay 8% simple interest on the difference between the cash settlement already paid and 
the outstanding settlement amount from the date on which Miss J and Mr S registered 
the claim until the payment is made.
Pay £240 as a disturbance allowance.
Pay a total of £400 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman