DRN-2749952
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt waive or reduce 
the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid to redeem their mortgage. They say they 
didnt want to repay the mortgage, but due to their highly unusual circumstances  which 
theyve likened to a force majeure  they had no other choice.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment 
on, or otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the 2020 mortgage offer in a way that 
should have been readily understandable to Mr and Mrs H; certainly, the information 
about the ERC was set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im 
persuaded Mr and Mrs H knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd 
have to pay if they repaid the mortgage before 1 May 2025.
Mr and Mrs H told us they were moving overseas and had no option but to sell their 
house and redeem the mortgage. Theyve referred to their circumstances as being 
highly unusual and said their circumstances exemplify force majeure. Ive a great 
deal of sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs H found themselves in, but their 
situation wasnt as unusual as they think. Many customers have to sell their homes 
(albeit for other equally valid reasons) and are unable to buy another property using a 
mortgage with Nationwide (again for other equally valid reasons). It would be highly 
unfair for Nationwide to treat Mr and Mrs H any differently from how it would treat any 
other customer that has to sell their home and cant get a replacement mortgage with 
Nationwide.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for its mortgage customers 
(both new and existing) on the wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and 
its generally fixed in advance. But the lender expects to receive a return to outweigh 
those costs in the form of interest on the mortgages it makes using the money its 
borrowed. If a mortgage ends early, it doesnt get that interest, and so doesnt make 
back the costs in raising the funds to offer that preferential rate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled to charge Mr and Mrs H the ERC 
as set out in their mortgage contract when they repaid their mortgage early. It is unfortunate 
that Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances changed so soon after they entered into this five-year 
fixed rate mortgage. But having considered everything I dont find the underlying issue  that 
Mr and Mrs H had to sell their property and couldnt get a replacement mortgage with 
Nationwide  to be exceptional such that Nationwide needed to treat them differently from its 
other customers.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman