DRN-2352697
The complaint
Miss M complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt fully settled a claim 
for medical expenses under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to deal with medical bills on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Miss M was insured under a travel insurance policy, provided by URV. 
Unfortunately, Miss M became unwell while in the US. In November 2019, Miss M made a 
claim under her policy with URV for the cost of her medical bills. 
When the bills hadnt been settled by mid-February 2020, Miss M complained to URV. URV 
said there had been a slight delay in paying an invoice, but this had now been paid. URV 
said a further invoice for $103.00 had since been received and it was in the process of 
arranging for this to be paid.  
In May 2020, Miss M received a letter from a representative of the healthcare provider whod 
treated her chasing payment of an outstanding balance of $3902.98 and she complained to 
URV again. URV said it had paid $1199.39 to the healthcare provider in February 2020 but it 
disputed the remaining balance of $3902.98. URV apologised for incorrect information which 
had previously been given by one of its staff to Miss M about whether it would be making a 
further payment towards the medical bills. 
Unhappy, Miss M brought her complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said URV had since offered to pay 
Miss M £300 compensation through our service, but she thought URV should also pay the 
outstanding medical bill which Miss M was being contacted about by the healthcare 
providers representative. 
URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said it was paying for a law firm to protect 
Miss Ms interests and was attempting to negotiate with the healthcare providers 
representative, but the representative was unwilling to reduce costs to anywhere near an 
appropriate amount. URV said it would increase its compensation offer to £500 but Miss M 
said this didnt change her position, as she was worried about the consequences of the 
unpaid debt.  
As a resolution acceptable to both parties couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly;
a firm must manage conflicts of interests fairly, both between itself and its customers 
and between a customer and another client. 
Under the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook, an insurer must:
handle claims promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, and provide 
appropriate information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim; and
settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
The FCA has also issued guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for 
the Fair Treatment of Customers) which says firms should consider the impact of their 
actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being 
provided. 
Ive had regard to these rules and guidance when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms complaint. Ive also taken into account what I 
think was good industry practice at the time of Miss Ms claim. Based on my experience of 
dealing with cases involving travel insurance claims for medical expenses incurred abroad, I 
think this was for providers of travel insurance policies to actively engage with healthcare 
providers to negotiate a mutually agreed compromise on the settlement of bills. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ms contract with URV say URV will pay for:
customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency 
treatment.
The policy doesnt set out a definition of what customary and reasonable fees or charges 
are. 
Miss Ms policy also says URV can:
take over and deal with, in your name, the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy
In doing this, I think URV should have regard to Miss Ms interests as well as its own, and it 
should base its decisions on the circumstances of Miss Ms particular case rather than on 
any broader concerns about what URV considers to be abusive pricing within the US 
healthcare industry. 
URV has accepted responsibility for Miss Ms medical bills under the terms and conditions of 
the policy she holds with it. The questions for me to decide are whether I think URV has met 
its obligation to Miss M to pay for customary and reasonable fees or charges relating to her 
medical treatment, and whether I think URV has dealt with Miss Ms claim in a fair and 
reasonable way taking into account her individual circumstances.URV received three invoices for Miss Ms medical treatment. These were for the following 
amounts:
1) $103  which URV appears to have paid in full;
2) $1668  URV paid $199.77;
3) $5102.37  URV paid $1199.39.
Miss M is being chased for payment of $3902.98, which is the shortfall on the amount paid 
by URV on the third invoice Ive listed. The other payments made dont seem to be in 
dispute, so this decision relates to the invoice reference number 2002350303 for $5102.37 
only. 
URV says its payment of $1199.39 in proposed settlement of this invoice is what it considers 
reasonable for the charges billed for by the healthcare provider. URV says the amount it paid 
was based on payment rates for medical treatment which are provided to the US Congress 
on an annual basis by the Medicare Payment Advisory Committee, plus an additional 
percentage. URV says this additional percentage goes over and above the shortfall in 
medical treatment costs identified by the American Hospital Association as arising from the 
application of the US Congressional guidelines. URV has provided evidence that the 
payment it made in proposed settlement of the invoice for $5102.37 was calculated in the 
way it has explained.  
However, I havent seen any evidence which persuades me that the US Congressional 
guidelines set out a valid and/or recognised benchmark for the fair payment of medical 
treatment costs outside of the Medicare system. I also havent seen any evidence that the 
amounts charged by the healthcare provider for Miss Ms treatment were unjustified, grossly 
excessive or disproportionate to what Miss M might have been charged by another hospital 
in the same area. 
Even if I were to accept that the information which URV has provided about the US 
Congressional guidelines supports its decision to pay $1199.39 in proposed settlement of 
the third invoice set out above, I dont think URV has handled Miss Ms claim in line with 
regulatory rules or with good industry practice. 
I dont think URV handled Miss Ms claim promptly when the claim was first presented to it. 
Based on the information Ive seen no payment was made towards the invoice in dispute 
until early March 2020. And when URV decided to pay only part of the amount invoiced, Im 
not satisfied it fairly managed the conflict between its own commercial interests in minimising 
the cost of the medical bills and Miss Ms interests in having her liability to the healthcare 
provider fixed and settled by URV. 
Ive seen an email from URV to Miss M dated 7 January 2020 which enclosed a letter about 
cost containment practices as well as a cost containment guide. The letter refers to URV 
adjusting the settlement paid for medical treatment costs which, in its view, are charged at 
an excessive amount, to ensure that only reasonable costs are paid. While this approach 
may be in URVs own commercial interests, Im not satisfied URV fairly balanced this with 
Miss Ms own interests.  
URV paid less than a quarter of the invoice in dispute. An email from URV to Miss M in June 
2020 said URV would settle any debt established to be due to the healthcare provider but I 
havent seen any evidence that URV took any active steps to establish what the amount of 
that debt due was. I also havent seen any evidence that URV attempted to negotiate or 
reach a compromise with the healthcare provider about the amount of the medical bills, as Id have expected it to. Instead, URV took a unilateral decision to pay only part of the invoice 
in dispute on a take it or leave it basis. 
In response to our investigators opinion, URV said it was in the process of contacting the 
healthcare providers representative to negotiate a price for the shortfall in dispute but I 
havent been provided with evidence of any such negotiations and I note Miss M says she 
has received correspondence about the outstanding debt on more than one occasion since 
then. 
I accept that URV attempted to provide some level of reassurance to Miss M about her 
liability for the outstanding amount and it was prepared to enter into correspondence with the 
healthcare providers representative on her behalf. However, this doesnt change my 
decision that I dont think URV has dealt with Miss Ms claim in a fair or reasonable way. 
When making my decision, Ive taken into account the total amount of the invoice in dispute. 
This isnt particularly large. So, the disputed sum  and any potential loss to URV if it could 
otherwise have negotiated a debt reduction to an amount below that of the original invoice 
is modest. In addition, Ive considered the impact of the situation on Miss M. She has been 
repeatedly contacted by the healthcare providers representative about the outstanding debt 
and is concerned about the potential impact of the debt on her credit rating and/or on any 
future trips she may wish to make to the US. 
Under the FCAs Dispute Resolution Rules, I have the power to direct a business to take 
such steps as I consider just and appropriate, regardless of whether or not a court could 
order these steps to be taken. 
While the outstanding amount of Miss Ms medical bills might not have been determined as 
due and owing by a court, I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to pay the costs of 
the invoice in dispute as billed by the healthcare provider to bring this matter to a conclusion 
for Miss M. 
URV may have been able to negotiate a mutually acceptable reduction in the amounts 
charged if it had engaged in more effective communications with the healthcare provider at 
an earlier point  or to have had the amount of Miss Ms liability ascertained by arbitration, 
expert evaluation or litigation  if it had handled the matter more proactively. But I dont think 
its unfair to now require URV to pay the invoice in dispute in full, considering the amount 
which remains outstanding and the length of time that has passed since the invoice was first 
issued. 
I think URV should also pay Miss M compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
has experienced as a result of its actions in this case. There was an initial delay by URV in 
dealing with the claim and Miss M was later led to believe that URV would be paying a 
further amount towards the invoice in dispute, when this wasnt URVs intention. Ive also 
taken into account the inevitable worry and stress which Miss M will have experienced as a 
result of being contacted by the healthcare providers representative about the outstanding 
amount. 
Overall, I think a total award of £300 compensation would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
URV needs to put things right as follows:within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Miss M accepts our final 
decision, URV must pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider for the 
invoice in dispute, together with any interest due and/or any collection fees which 
Miss M may be liable for;
pay a total of £300 compensation to Miss M for the distress and inconvenience she 
has experienced.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Ms complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman