DRN-3970343
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited paid him 
for the loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was damaged in an accident and AA deemed it to be beyond economical repair. 
AA offered Mr H £6,257 in settlement of his claim. But Mr H said he couldnt replace his car 
for this amount, and he was out of pocket. He thought AA should increase his settlement to 
the value of the car stated on his policy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AA hadnt 
carried out its valuation of the market value of Mr Hs car in keeping with our approach. He 
found that the average valuation for the car provided by the four trade guides we use was 
£6,713. And so he thought AA should increase its settlement to this amount and pay Mr H 
the difference with interest.
Mr H agreed. But AA replied that it thought its approach provided a fair and reasonable 
valuation for Mr Hs car. As AA didnt agree, the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car, and I can see that 
its now some time since his car accident. Mr H thought AA should pay him the value stated 
on his policy documents. But his policy wasnt an agreed value policy. I can see that his 
policy provides for his cars market value in the case of total loss. This is stated on his policy 
schedule next to the valuation of his car. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from four 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
AA found valuations for Mr Hs car in two of the trade guides we use, and it offered Mr H the 
average of these. But this isnt in keeping with our long-standing approach. And I think it 
should reasonably have looked for valuations in all four of the guides we use to provide a fair 
valuation for Mr Hs car. 
Our Investigator thought that AAs settlement offer was too low. So Ive reviewed how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the four trade guides we use for cars of 
the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr Hs car at the date of 
its loss. He found four valuations which were evenly spread. So, in keeping with our 
approach, he took an average of these. The average was £6,713, which wasnt in the range 
of AAs offer. 
So I agree that AAs offer wasnt fair and reasonable as it wasnt made in keeping with our 
approach and this produced an unfair result for Mr H. I think AA should increase its 
settlement for the loss of Mr Hs car by £456 to £6,713. And, as Mr H has been without his 
money for some time, I think it should reasonably add interest to this difference. 
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H £456 more in settlement 
of his claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
of the initial payment to the date of settlement.
If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman