DRN-3251984
The complaint
Miss Z is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society deemed that she didnt qualify for an 
incentive which she feels that she did qualify for.
What happened
Miss Z became aware of an incentive being run by Nationwide whereby they were offering 
either £100 or £125 for current account switches. Miss Z contacted Nationwide about this 
and felt that it was confirmed to her by Nationwide that she would be eligible for the 
incentive. However, Miss Z was later told by Nationwide that she wasnt eligible for the 
incentive and as such wouldnt receive the incentive money. Miss Z wasnt happy about this, 
so she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Miss Zs complaint. They noted that the incentive in question was for 
current accounts being switched into Nationwide from other current account providers. 
Nationwide also noted that Miss Z hadnt been eligible for the incentive because she hadnt 
switched her current account into Nationwide from another provider, but already held her 
current account with Nationwide. 
Miss Z wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that because 
Miss Z hadnt switched her current account into Nationwide from another current account 
provider that she hadnt been eligible for the incentive. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss Z remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Current account switching incentives are sometimes offered by current account providers 
such as Nationwide and are designed to bring new business to current account providers by 
enticing consumers who hold current accounts with other providers to switch their current 
account to the provider offering the incentive. 
In this instance, Miss Z was already an existing current account holder with Nationwide, and 
it seems evident from the information that Ive received that Miss Z believed that she could 
switch her existing Nationwide current account to a new Nationwide current account in order 
to benefit from the incentive and receive the money that the incentive offered.
Given that Nationwides incentive promised £100 for new customers and £125 for existing 
customers, I can appreciate why Miss Z may have thought that such a switch was possible,  
But it must be noted that this £125 incentive offer for existing customers was dependent on 
existing Nationwide customers switching a new account to Nationwide  i.e. an account held 
by them with another current account provider  and wasnt available to existing customers 
in Miss Zs position who already held their current account with Nationwide and who were 
seeking to switch that existing Nationwide account to a new Nationwide current account.
The terms of Nationwides incentive in this regard dont seem unreasonable to me, and it 
must be remembered that incentives such as this are generally offered to attract new 
business  i.e. new accounts  to the current account provider offering the incentive. But 
Miss Z wasnt bringing a new account to Nationwide, and so it doesnt seem unfair to me that 
she would be considered ineligible to benefit from the incentive.
Indeed, it must be noted that the closing of an existing Nationwide account and the opening 
of a new Nationwide account wouldnt generally be referred to as a switch  which is a term 
usually reserved for when the closing account is held with one current account provider and 
the new account is opened with a different provider.
Miss Z has provided this service with screenshots of an online chat that she had with a 
Nationwide representative which she feels demonstrates that Nationwide confirmed that she 
was eligible for the incentive if she switched her existing Nationwide account to a new 
Nationwide account. 
I can appreciate Miss Zs position here, but it seems clear to me having reviewed these 
screenshots that the Nationwide representative with whom Miss Z was communicating was 
under the impression that Miss Z would be switching her account into Nationwide from 
another current account provider, and wasnt aware that Miss Z was looking to switch from 
an existing Nationwide account to a new Nationwide account. 
As such, while I can appreciate why Miss Z may have believed that she could benefit from 
the incentive here, Im satisfied that this belief was based on a misunderstanding of the 
terms of the incentive, and that unfortunately this misunderstanding didnt become apparent 
to Nationwide when they first discussed this incentive with Miss Z. 
I do note that the terms of the incentive appear to have been explained to Miss Z during a 
later telephone call that she had with Nationwide on 17 September 2021, at which time it 
became apparent to the Nationwide advisor that Miss Z spoke with that Miss Z was under 
the impression that she could benefit from the incentive by closing her existing Nationwide 
account and opening a new one.
Ultimately, while I can appreciate Miss Zs misunderstanding, it seems clear and reasonable 
to me that Nationwide were seeking to attract new business by way of offering this incentive, 
and because Miss Z wasnt bringing any new business to Nationwide  given that she 
already held her current account with them  Im satisfied that it was fair of Nationwide to 
deem that Miss Z didnt qualify for the incentive in this instance.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss Z here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss Z was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman