DRN-3901340
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as R, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC havent offered 
sufficient compensation for the inconvenience caused by the banks loss of two cheques that 
R deposited into its account. 
In bringing this complaint R is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr L 
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly: 
On 4 April 2022, during a visit to one of Barclays branches, Mr L deposited two $US 
cheques totalling $4,207.56 into Rs USD account. By June 2022, the proceeds were 
still not credited to Rs account. So, Mr L complained to the bank about the delay. 
In their response on 4 July 2022 Barclays told R that they had lost the cheques. The 
bank suggested that as precaution R should contact its customer to request, they 
place a stop on the cheques and send the payments again electronically. 
On 22 July 2022 R did so and received the payment on 1 September 2022. 
R said it spent time and effort resolving the issue and the time it took to receive the 
payment caused it inconvenience. R believes that ultimately Barclays were to blame 
for the events and should pay £1,205 as compensation - broken down as follows: 
oManagerial time: £700
oSupport staff time: £200
oInterest on sum: £105
oCompensation for the inconvenience caused: £200
oTotal: £1,205
Barclays acknowledged they were at fault for losing the cheques and they 
acknowledged too that there was delay in R eventually receiving the replacement 
funds. Barclays said they recommended that when making the payment again R 
should tell its client to do so electronically because at the time the bank had 
temporarily stopped accepting foreign currency cheques. But the bank didnt think it 
should be held solely responsible, if at all, for the delay that followed. According to 
Barclays the delay returning the funds electronically was outside their control and 
perhaps more the responsibility of Rs clients.
Barclays, said also that having regard to balance in Rs other accounts, they didnt 
think R was having to rely on the delayed funds. So, they believed the overall impact 
of the delay on R was minimal. The bank offered R £100 as compensation for its 
inconvenience. 
R didnt think the offer was fair and as the complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to 
our service to consider.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays offer of £100 was fair for the inconvenience R 
suffered from having to make different arrangements to receive the funds from its clients and 
the time taken to correspond with Barclays and its clients to resolve matters. That said, our 
investigator also concluded that Barclays needed to do more to put things right.
Given the banks eight-week timeframe, R would have expected the cleared funds around 4 
June. But it didnt receive them until 1 September. The investigator thought Barclays should 
pay interest for the period R went without the funds  in other words, from June to 
September.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation. But R didnt. 
R didnt think £100 was reasonable having regard to the extra work it said was generated by 
the banks error and the associated inconvenience it experienced. 
On the question of inconvenience, it believes that an award falling within our awards band of 
£300-£750 might be appropriate. In particular, because, its aimed at circumstances where 
the impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or 
significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort over weeks or months 
to sort out. R believes this mirrors its position and therefore, it has asked for a review of its 
case by an ombudsman   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Barclays made an error in April 2022 when they lost the two cheques R deposited in one of 
their branches. And as well as paying R compensation for the inconvenience this caused, 
which Ill come back to later, Barclays agreed to pay interest at 8% simple on the cheque 
proceeds from the date the cheques would have cleared but for the banks error to the date 
R eventually received the funds in September 2022. 
Im satisfied this fairly settles the claim for interest made by R. On top of that, I bear in mind 
also that the change in the method of payment by Rs customer in September 2022 from 
cheques as originally intended to electronic payments resulted in a modest saving to R. In 
other words, whereas R would have been charged £16 per cheque, the charge for each 
electronic payment was materially less at £6.
In light of Barclays agreement to settle the lost interest element of Rs case, the outstanding 
issue for me to consider is really whether the banks offer of £100 is fair for the 
inconvenience it accepts R suffered because of its error. In particular, bearing in mind R 
thinks this should be £200. On top of that, Ive also thought about whether the bank should 
go further and also pay compensation for the time taken by Rs management and support 
staff to recover the payment in September 2022. 
We wouldnt generally award compensation by reference to any rate the management and/or 
support staff of a complainant charges for their time, as R would like to happen in this case. 
Instead, we consider what an appropriate level of compensation would be having regard to the overall impact an error had on the complainant. So, Ive taken that approach in my 
consideration of Rs case. 
Barclays have argued that R had funds in other accounts that it could have relied on and 
therefore, the impact of the delay in receiving its funds was less significant than otherwise it 
might have been. That is perhaps true. But, in any case it is not my understanding it is Rs 
case that not having cleared funds for use in the period they were absent from its account 
also contributed to its inconvenience. 
Leaving that to one side, Im satisfied nonetheless, that Barclays error caused some 
avoidable inconvenience to R. First, in early July 2022 I note there were exchanges of e-
mails between R and Barclays as R tried to find out what had happened to the two cheques. 
And later, there were exchanges of emails between R and its customer when R told them 
about the misplaced cheques and, as Barclays recommended it should do, it also let its 
customer know they needed to cancel the cheques and make the payment electronically. 
Also, when the payment didnt arrive in a timely manner, R had to follow things up to ensure 
its customer was still intent on sending the payment as had been promised. 
Putting things right
 But after taking everything into account Im satisfied that the £100 offered by Barclays is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. I say that also because although it 
was the banks error that led to these events, the inconvenience associated with the delay 
receiving the funds was in large part caused by Rs customer sending the replacement funds 
to R 
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I recommend that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC pay R:
8% simple interest per annum on $US 4,207.56 from 4 June 2022 to 1 September 
2022. 
£100 compensation for inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman