DRN-2225914
The complaint
Mr T and Miss E complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA dealt with their claim 
against a travel insurance policy after Miss E became ill whilst on a trip abroad. 
What happened
Miss E has travel insurance as a benefit of a payment card. 
On 11 November 2019, Mr T, Miss E and their infant went on a trip with an intended return 
date of 21 November 2019. Miss E became ill with dengue fever just before they were due to 
return home. Miss E received medical treatment abroad. The treating doctor told Miss E that 
she shouldnt travel for seven days, so they couldnt fly on their intended departure date.    
Mr T, Miss E and their child stayed with family members until Miss E was declared fit to 
travel. 
Mr T and Miss E wanted the family to travel home together in business class. Miss E was 
breastfeeding their child. The doctor treating Miss E said that, whilst she was fit to fly, she 
shouldnt be in a sitting position for more than five to six hours.  
IPAs initial position was that, when someone has had dengue fever and is certified fit to fly, 
business class isnt necessary. It tried to contact the treating doctor for more information and 
clarification but, as it couldnt do so, it authorised business class for Miss E as an exception. 
IPA didnt agree to authorise a business class flight for Mr T. It said that as it wasnt 
medically necessary for Miss E to travel in business class, Mr T and Miss E could travel 
together in economy or Mr T could pay to upgrade his flight to business class. 
Miss E flew home in business class and Mr T says that he upgraded his flight to premium 
economy, so he could be as close as possible to Miss E. Mr T says that the flight home was 
very difficult as their child constantly wanted Miss E. He was asked to leave business class, 
so Miss E needed to repeatedly return their child to Mr T, which didnt aid her recovery. Mr T 
and Miss E want compensation for the emotional stress IPA caused them. 
In response to the complaint, IPA offered Mr T and Miss E compensation of £150 in relation 
to the service they had received but maintained its position in relation to the flights. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that the compensation of 
£150 IPA had already offered was fair. The investigator said that there was nothing to 
suggest that Miss E needed someone with her on the flight for medical reasons, so she 
didnt think that IPA had acted unfairly in refusing to authorise business class for Mr T. 
The investigator said that IPA should have contacted Mr T and Miss E more and that it made 
an error in telling Mr T that the family could travel together in business class. The 
investigator also thought that IPA didnt handle one of Mr Ts calls well. 
Mr T and Miss E didnt agree with the investigator. They say that they were not treated fairly 
and asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE ABROAD
We will arrange transport home if this is considered medically necessary 
MEDICALLY NECESSARY 
Reasonable and essential medical service and supplies, ordered by a medical practitioner 
exercising prudent clinical judgement, needed to diagnose or treat an illness, injury, medical 
condition, disease or its symptoms, and that meet generally accepted standards of medical 
practice.
SECTION A  EMERGENCY MEDICAL EXPENSES
[]
WHAT IS COVERED
Up to the amount shown in the Benefit Table for costs incurred outside your country of 
residence for:
[]
d. With our prior authorisation, additional travelling costs to repatriate you to your home 
when recommended by our Chief Medical Officer, including the cost of a medical escort if 
necessary. Repatriation expenses will be in the identical class of travel utilised on the 
outward journey unless we agree otherwise. 
e. With our prior authorisation, and if deemed medically necessary by our Chief Medical 
Officer:
- all necessary and reasonable accommodation (room only) and travel expenses incurred if it 
is medically necessary for you to stay beyond your scheduled return date, and including 
travel costs, back to your country of residence if you cannot use your original ticket.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont think that IPA treated 
Mr T and Miss E unfairly. I say that because:
The policy provides that in the circumstances that arose here, IPA will authorise 
repatriation and medical escort costs, if medically necessary.  
The doctor who treated Miss E said that whilst she was fit to fly, she shouldnt be in a 
sitting position for more than five to six hours. IPA had some queries about that and 
tried to contact that doctor but was unable to do so. IPA said that it wouldnt usually 
repatriate a patient whod had dengue fever in business class and didnt think that it 
was medically necessary for Miss E to travel business class. As it couldnt clarify 
matters with the doctor who treated Miss E, IPA agreed to arrange a business class 
flight for Miss E on an exception basis. I think that was fair. 
My role isnt to substitute the medical judgement of any of the medical professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive 
been provided with to decide whether I think IPA handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably. I think it acted fairly in offering Miss E a business class flight.   I dont think that IPA was required to offer Mr T a business class flight. There was no 
medical evidence that it was medically necessary for Miss E to be accompanied by 
Mr T. 
In the particular circumstances here, when IPA only offered Miss E a business class 
flight on an exception basis, I dont think it was unfair to suggest that if Miss E and  
Mr Ts prime concern was to be together on the flight, they could fly in economy 
together.  
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr T and IPAs doctor. That call became 
heated, but I think that IPA dealt with the matter courteously and professionally. 
IPA made an error in telling Mr T that the family could travel together in business 
class. It corrected that error quite quickly and apologised. IPA offered compensation 
of £150 in relation to service issues, which I think is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr T and Miss Es complaint because I think 
that the compensation Inter Partner Assistance SA has already offered is fair. I now invite 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr T and Miss E the compensation of £150 that its 
already offered.                                                                                                           
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman