DRN-3677618
The complaint
Miss M complains that the loans she had from Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading
as Moneyboat) were unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss M had three loans from Moneyboat between April 2021 and June 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 19 Apr 2021 £200 102d £69.56 30 Jul 2021 28 May 2021
2 29 May 2021 £1,500 181d £463.96 26 Nov 2021 19 Jun 2021
3 23 Jun 2021 £1,500 191d £478.91 31 Dec 2021 2 Feb 2022
Miss M says she doesnt feel Moneyboat carried out enough checks as her second and 
third loans were significantly higher than the first and she was re-borrowing almost 
immediately. She says that if Moneyboat had checked her bank statements it would have 
seen that she had a gambling addiction and multiple other short-term loans. Miss M adds 
that she has been massively affected both financially and mentally by the lending.
Moneyboat says it checked Miss Ms credit file which helped to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to sustainably make the repayments. It says it also asked Miss M to provide figures 
for her income and expenditure and they showed the repayments to be affordable, even 
after adjustments were made based on its other checks. Moneyboat says Miss M also 
repaid loans early and that it was never made aware of any financial difficulties, including 
gambling.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that
Moneyboat carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available
information to indicate further checks were required, or that the repayments were
unsustainable.
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that such high borrowing so quickly after previous 
loan repayments should have prompted Moneyboat to carry out more extensive checks.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss M and to Moneyboat on 2 August 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings below:
I was satisfied Moneyboats checks went far enough for loan 1 and that there was 
nothing in the available information that should have indicated to Moneyboat that the 
repayments were unaffordable;
I was not satisfied Moneyboats checks went far enough for loan 2 because:
oMiss M now needed to commit almost 30% of her income to the repayments 
for six months and Moneyboat needed to consider whether that was 
sustainable for her;
oThe credit check showed Miss M had opened 10 new accounts in the last six 
months  six of these were other short-term loans;
I considered Moneyboat should have ensured it asked sufficient questions to satisfy 
itself that Miss M was not becoming reliant on short-term lending. Had it done so it 
would have found that:
oOf the six short-term loans showing on the credit check, two were still 
outstanding according to the credit file;
oProportionate checks would have shown that Miss M had also taken out a 
further four short-term loans in May 2021, before loan 2;
I found, therefore, that if Moneyboat had carried out proportionate checks, it would 
have considered it was irresponsible to have approved further lending;
Miss Ms credit file showed a worsening picture by loan 3  her overall debt had more 
than doubled and she continued to take out multiple short-term loans;
Proportionate checks would have shown that at least eight short-term loans were still 
outstanding at the time of loan 3 and the repayments now exceeded the disposable 
income calculated by Moneyboat;
I was satisfied, therefore, that loan 3 was unaffordable and there were clear 
indications that Miss M was struggling financially.
My provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Ms complaint about loans 2 and 3 and
Moneyboat should put things right.
Miss M responded to accept the provisional decision.
Moneyboat did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss M accepted my provisional decision and neither party provided any additional 
information, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Evergreen Finance London Limited 
(trading as Moneyboat) should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount.oIf this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
Remove any negative information about loans 2 and 3 from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman