DRN-3657535
The complaint
Ms T complains that Portal Financial Services LLP gave her unsuitable advice to transfer her 
personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In 2013 Ms T spoke to Portal about her pension. Portal completed a fact-find and attitude to 
risk questionnaire and then issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendations.
The information Portal gathered included that Ms T was a 56 year old care assistant with an 
income of around £18,000 per year. She had no spare income after paying her outgoings. 
Her pension fund value was around £17,000, with a transfer value of around £19,500. She 
had no other savings, and no debts.
Portal classed Ms T as a Moderately Adventurous investor. The documents noted some 
commentary and questions about capacity for loss but the answers werent all completed. 
The suitability letter recorded Ms Ts objectives as to take some tax-free cash for a family 
party, emergency fund and general use, without needing to borrow to achieve this.
Portal considered using the pension to raise capital on the basis there was no other way to 
do so. It listed various pension options including a stakeholder pension, annuities and 
drawdown options. It recommended that Ms T move her pension to a SIPP, saying this 
would allow her to meet her objectives and she would be able to take up to 25% of her 
pension as a tax free cash lump sum to meet her needs. The report said she had chosen to 
take £4,909.
The reason given for recommending a pension transfer was the possibility that the benefits 
available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the benefits that 
would have been available through your existing provider.
The letter also set out the funds to invest in. The majority (60%) was to be invested in the 
following:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC
Marbella Resort and Spa PLC
Real Estate Investments USA Plc
Strategic Residential Developments Plc.
Of the rest, 30% would be invested in a range of equities and funds and 10% held in cash. 
Portal said due diligence had been conducted on each investment and some investments 
were illiquid (meaning they couldnt be bought or sold easily) but were appropriate for Ms Ts 
timescale, as she didnt intend to take further benefits until age 65. 
Some time later Ms T complained, with the help of a representative, that the advice was 
unsuitable for a number of reasons including that Portal had failed to carry out an adequate 
assessment of her experience and knowledge; she had no knowledge of investments, wasnt 
able to make the best financial choices for her retirement and didnt have the capital to cover 
any losses. She said Portal hadnt complied with the rules and guidance set by the regulator.
Portal didnt provide a response to the complaint. 
When Ms T referred her complaint to this service, Portal questioned whether it had been 
referred within the relevant time limits. Our investigator explained why she thought it had 
been and Portal did not challenge this or provider further comments. So she went on to 
consider the merits of the complaint.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Amongst other things, she said: 
Portal hadnt considered all the options properly;
the costs of the SIPP were likely to be higher, so the SIPP would have to perform 
better to balance out the costs and Portal hadnt demonstrated that Ms T would be 
better off;
Ms T couldnt reasonably be considered a Moderately Adventurous investor since 
she had no financial knowledge and wasnt an experienced investor, and her 
capacity for loss had not been considered properly;
the funds were not suitable for someone in her position. 
The investigator recommended that Portal carry out a calculation to see if Ms T had suffered 
a loss as a result of moving her pension and said if she had, Portal should compensate her 
for that loss, together with compensation for the distress caused to Ms T.
Ms T has accepted the investigators view but Portal hasnt. So I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned above, Portal initially questioned whether the complaint had been made in 
time. The investigator set out why she considered the complaint was referred within the 
relevant time limits and said if Portal disagreed it should let her know and provide supporting 
evidence in response. Portal didnt reply or provide any further evidence, but did 
acknowledge that we were investigating, and Im satisfied we can consider the merits of the 
complaint.
The FCAs Principles set out that a firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence; and pay due regard to the customers interests and treat them fairly. The relevant 
rules and guidance say that when assessing suitability, the firm must, amongst other things:
take reasonable steps to ensure a recommendation is suitable; and
obtain the information needed about the clients knowledge and experience, their 
financial situation and their investment objectives.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (the regulator at the time) published a report about 
pension switching, which still applies. It highlighted four key areas where consumers had lost 
out:
charges - the consumer had been switched to a more expensive pension or a 
stakeholder pension without good reason;
existing benefits  they had lost benefits in the switch without good reason;
risk  they had switched to a pension that didnt match their recorded attitude to risk 
and personal circumstances;ongoing fund management  they had switched to a pension with a need for ongoing 
investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ive taken the above rules and guidance into account when assessing how Portal dealt with 
Ms Ts pension switch.
Portal recommended the switch on the basis it would provide Ms T with an emergency fund 
and to pay towards a family party; and it was possible the benefits at retirement would 
exceed the benefits that would have been available through her existing provider.
Alternative options were noted in the suitability letter such as taking out a loan. Based on her 
income and budget Ms T had no disposable income or savings to fall back on. She has said 
if she wasnt advised to take the tax-free cash she wouldnt have used the funds. But I 
havent seen evidence of a discussion about this or about how much of the tax-free cash she 
intended to use towards the party, or how to build up some savings instead.
Turning to the benefits Ms T was giving up from her pension, I cant see that Portal 
examined this properly. The report said a terminal bonus applied, which indicates her 
pension was likely invested in a With-Profit fund. These funds are considered fairly low risk 
investments when compared to others but could be at risk to a market value adjustment. The 
adviser didnt mention this or say what bonuses or guarantees might apply. 
The report says the adviser had considered a wide range of pension providers but Portal 
hasnt provided evidence of the research to show why the adviser recommended the 
particular provider that it chose or that it was better value than others. And there wasnt any 
detail about what options her existing provider could offer.
One of the reasons for switching was to achieve higher returns. But looking at the charges, 
the SIPP and advisers charges were significantly higher than the existing personal pension. 
So the SIPP would have to work that much harder to balance out these costs. 
Given the illiquid nature of some of the funds recommended, Ms T would have to rely on the 
cash element of her plan to pay the charges as her budget didnt allow her to pay these 
separately. Only 10% of the funds were held in cash so its not clear how the charges would 
be paid or whether Ms T would have to use her liquid funds to cover these.
Ms Ts only option to be able to take the benefits at that time was to arrange a pension that 
allowed her to drawdown funds. Although the report shows generic factors for consideration, 
it didnt provide enough detail on how this related to Ms T. I dont consider it provided 
meaningful reasons why she would be better off switching. And I dont consider Portal 
explored alternatives or examined her position as fully as it should have.
Portal described Ms Ts attitude to risk as moderately adventurous, described as
Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be fairly
experienced.
Based in the information Portal collected, this description doesnt seem to apply to Ms T. 
She had no financial knowledge and wasnt an experienced investor. 
Ms T answered various questions about her views on risk. Based on those answers, she 
was considered a cautious person, felt comfortable investing in the stock-market but not
property. She took time to decide things, preferred safer investment but not bank deposits.
She had little investment experience but could take higher risk and was concerned aboutvolatility.
Looking at the questionnaires Ms T completed, her answers are contradictory and its not at 
all clear that she fully understood the questions or that they were explained to her. Its 
difficult to see how someone in Ms Ts circumstances could be considered moderately 
adventurous. 
She was a 56 year old care assistant with an income of around £18,000 per year. Her 
pension had a transfer value of around £19,500 and was her only pension provision apart 
from the state retirement pension. It was far from clear that she could easily replace any loss 
in her pension funds. She didnt own a property or other assets, so the security of her 
pension was important. Whilst she had some capacity for loss, I think it was fairly low. She 
couldnt afford to be exposed to high risk or unproven investments, with the risk they might 
default.
Even if Ms T did have a moderately adventurous attitude to risk, Portal still had to discuss 
her understanding and whether this was appropriate for her, as well as considering her 
capacity for loss. I cant see that the adviser explored this fully. The report lists questions 
and comments but not her specific answers. 
The adviser said, Upon review of your answers to these questions, I believe you have a 
suitable level of capacity for loss for the recommendations we have made for you. But she 
had no disposable income or savings to provide a buffer. Since the remaining funds would 
have given Ms T some financial security for her future, it seems to me that she could not 
afford to take too much risk with them. She had around nine years until her stated retirement 
age so I dont consider she would have taken no risk at all. 
Taking into account her knowledge and experience, I think she would have taken a more 
cautious approach.
Portal provided a risk warning but its not clear whether these risks were explained at the 
time or Ms T was simply given the form to sign, I dont think she would necessarily have 
questioned the advice. She was guided by the adviser and relied on the advice that the 
switch was suitable.
Portal invested the majority of the pension in secured property bonds with terms of between
five and seven years. The report said they could be considered relatively illiquid but the 
returns would make them suitable. They were collective investments, where investors pool 
their money to be invested in the specified way. They should have been treated as more 
speculative investments, only considered for a small part of the pension, but Portal 
recommended that 60% be invested in this way. 
The report describes various property funds but this seems to be generic text. There isnt a 
clear explanation of why these particular funds were selected. While the bonds were 
expected to mature within Ms Ts time frame its doubtful whether investing in illiquid assets 
was suitable. 
If Ms Ts circumstances changed, she wouldnt be able to take her benefits if she needed to; 
she would have to wait some years before she could access all her money and as Ive said, 
she would have no other savings to fall back on  apart for the modest tax-free cash which 
shed already taken (and some of which she intended to use).
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think the investments were suitable for Ms T. 
She was switched to a more expensive pension and I dont think there were convincing 
reasons to justify the switch; the risk involved was too great. Her representative has said the current value of the SIPP means Ms T has suffered a loss. If this advice has led to a loss for 
Ms T, she should be compensated for that.
I also agree with our investigator that Ms T should be compensated for the distress caused 
to her. She would have been upset to find the SIPP wasnt suitable and may have led to a 
loss in value of the pension she is relying on for her retirement.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Ms T should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Ms T would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Ms T's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Ms T fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Ms T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Ms T's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Ms T's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount directly to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Ms T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms T would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Ms T £300 for award for the stress caused to her.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms T how much has been taken off. Portal should give Ms T a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms T asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Ms T provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal from the Income 
drawdown personal pension should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.The Income drawdown personal pension only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for 
the Income drawdown personal pension to be closed and further fees that are charged to 
be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something that Ms T can 
discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Ms T an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms T wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Ms T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Ms T into that position. It does not mean 
that Ms T would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Ms T could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Ms T in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman