DRN-3444217
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt treat them fairly 
when they ported their mortgage. They say they were racially profiled, frustrated and 
delayed. Halifax didnt tell them it would waive the early repayment charge (ERC) until after 
completion, meaning they had to find the funds for it. And they complain about the way they 
were spoken to during calls and how their complaint was dealt with. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a mortgage with Halifax. They had a fixed interest product with an ERC 
which was payable if they repaid the mortgage before October 2025. They could avoid 
having to pay the ERC if they ported the mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs A made an application in 2021 to port their mortgage and take out additional 
borrowing. Halifax issued a mortgage offer in mid-May 2021, conditional on Mr and Mrs A 
repaying some of their debts. The mortgage completed at the end of June 2021. Mr and 
Mrs A complain that:
They were racially profiled
Halifax caused delays
Halifax made unreasonable requests for them to repay unsecured debt
Halifax spoke to them in an inappropriate way on calls
Halifax didnt tell them they didnt need to pay the ERC, causing delays while they found 
the funds. They were left with no money  they couldnt afford to pay a removal firm and 
had to move furniture using their own car
Halifax took a direct debit for the previous mortgage, and they were told they had to wait 
15 days for a refund. Mr A says Halifax didnt cancel the direct debit because it doubted 
they would meet the conditions in the mortgage offer
Halifax didnt investigate their complaint properly and paid £100 into their account 
without their consent
Mr and Mrs A say the minimum compensation should be 10% of the ERC and Halifax should 
undertake not to add ERCs to ported mortgages. They say they feel mentally drained by the 
way Halifax dealt with their porting application. 
Our investigator said Halifax was entitled to ask for information as part of the application 
process. It had to check that the new mortgage was affordable. Halifax said the loan Mr and 
Mrs A wanted wasnt affordable due to their unsecured debts. Our investigator said he hadnt 
seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs A had been racially profiled, and having listened to 
recordings of the calls he didnt think Halifax spoke to Mr and Mrs A inappropriately. 
Our investigator said while Mr and Mrs As conveyancer misunderstood, he thought the 
redemption statement was clear that the ERC neednt be paid if Mr and Mrs A were porting 
their interest rate product to a new mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. Mr A said their conveyancer had tried to check with Halifax if the 
ERC had to be paid and received a generic answer, which was unacceptable. He said the 
investigator hadnt taken into account that he told Halifax they didnt have enough funds to 
repay their unsecured debts and pay the ERC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Did Halifax make it clear that the ERC neednt be paid?
It seems Mr and Mrs As conveyancer told them they had to include the ERC in the 
redemption funds. This put Mr and Mrs A in a difficult position, having to find the funds so 
that their sale and purchase could complete. I dont think though that Halifax was 
responsible for this.
The redemption statement sets out the amounts payable to redeem the mortgage on 30 
June 2021. It set out the outstanding mortgage balance and the ERC separately. It says the 
ERC can be deducted if the product is ported to a new mortgage taken out at the same time. 
It set out details of the product, such as the interest rate, end date and product number. 
The product details  the interest rate, end date and product number  set out in the 
redemption statement match those in the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs A in May 2021. 
A copy would have been sent to the conveyancer. I think it was reasonable for Halifax to 
expect the conveyancer to understand that in these circumstances ERC could be deducted.
The conveyancer asked Halifax to confirm the ERC could be deducted. Mr A says the 
conveyancer received a generic response. I dont think this changes matters. I think the 
redemption statement was sufficiently clear about the circumstances in which the ERC 
neednt be paid. 
Mr A called Halifax on 25 June 2021. He said he had a problem with the ERC being on the 
redemption statement as his solicitor didnt understand that the ERC didnt need to be paid. 
Halifax confirmed this was a full porting case and the solicitor didnt need to pay the ERC. 
Halifax said it had emailed the solicitor to this effect, and suggested Mr A ask his solicitors to 
call.
Mr A called Halifax on 1 July 2021. Halifax confirmed he shouldnt have been charged the 
ERC and said it would refund the ERC to the solicitor. Mr A asked if he could have the 
money direct to avoid a further bank charge for the transfer from the solicitor. Halifax said 
this was possible if it had confirmation from the solicitor. 
It was unfortunate that Mr and Mrs As solicitor paid the ERC with the redemption money. 
This left them shorter of funds than they should have been, which must have been difficult 
when they had the costs of moving to cover. I dont think Halifax was responsible for this. 
Halifax said it had provided clear information to the conveyancer, but offered £100 to Mr and Mrs A as theyd been caused inconvenience. It refunded the ERC on a prioritised basis. I 
dont think Halifax needs to take any further steps.
Did Halifax treat Mr and Mrs A fairly during the porting application process?
First, I should set out what happens with porting. Its not the mortgage (which is the charge 
on the security property) or the loan thats transferred or ported. The mortgage loan is repaid 
and the lenders charge is released. A new loan is taken out which is secured by a new 
charge on the new property. It is the product that is transferred (or ported) to the new 
mortgage. This allows customers to retain the product terms (such as the interest rate) and 
avoid the cost of the ERC.
I should also say that rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out stringent 
affordability checks before agreeing to offer or vary a mortgage contract. 
Here, Mr and Mrs A applied for a new mortgage to buy a property. This was for more (almost 
double) the amount of their existing mortgage loan. Rules on mortgage regulation meant 
Halifax had to carry out affordability checks. Halifax is, like all lenders, entitled to make a 
decision about its lending criteria. 
Ive listened to recordings of Mr and Mrs As calls with Halifax, and I dont think Halifax was 
unfair in asking them for information related to their application. Mr A had expected Halifax to 
base its affordability assessment on his expected future income. Halifax used Mr As past 
income, evidenced by his tax calculations, which was lower. Halifax treated part of Mr As 
income as from self-employment and its underwriters asked for more information about this. 
Mr and Mrs As income came from more than one source, which meant they had to provide 
additional information and evidence. Halifax went through Mr and Mrs As income in detail, 
and it sounds like it wasnt always straightforward for Mr and Mrs A to provide the 
information Halifax asked for. From what Mr and Mrs A have said, they didnt expect this  
they expected their track record of maintaining payments to make the process easier. While I 
can understand this, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to ask for income information and 
suitable evidence. It needed this to carry out an affordability assessment, as is required by 
rules on mortgage regulation.
Halifax told Mr and Mrs A the mortgage they wanted wasnt affordable. Mr A asked what 
would happen if they repaid some of their debts. Halifax re-assessed affordability on the 
basis the debts were repaid. As the mortgage was only affordable if the debts were repaid, I 
think it was reasonable for Halifax to make this a condition of the mortgage offer. 
While Mr and Mrs A first spoke to Halifax about porting in March 2021 they hadnt found a 
property at that point. The application process started in April 2021. All of the income 
information required was provided by early May 2021. A valuation was carried out on 
11 May, and a mortgage offer was issued on 18 May 2021. I dont think Halifax caused 
unreasonable delays with the application. Other concerns raised by Mr and Mrs A
Halifax had sent a direct debit request in late June 2021 for Mr and Mrs As monthly 
payment. It says it was too late to cancel this once the redemption funds were received. The 
payment was received at about the same time as the mortgage was redeemed. Mr A says 
Halifax didnt cancel the direct debit because it was so sure that they wouldnt be able to 
meet the conditions set out in the mortgage offer. I think its more likely that Halifax followed 
its usual process in sending a direct debit request and didnt cancel it for the reason it gave  
that it was too late to do so once the redemption money was received. 
When Mr A spoke to Halifax on 1 July 2021 it said it would refund the direct debit payment. It 
explained the process for this, and said Mr A could ask his bank to reclaim the direct debit if 
he wanted the money returned sooner. Mr A said he didnt want the money back quicker, he 
just wanted to check this would happen. Halifax provided evidence it refunded the direct 
debit. I dont think Halifax made an error or acted unfairly in taking or returning the direct 
debit payment.
Mr and Mrs A say they were racially profiled by Halifax, and we asked what made them think 
this had happened. Mr A says Halifax doubted their ability to meet the conditions in the 
mortgage offer. He said Halifaxs staff used an elevated tone questioning their ability to meet 
the conditions. Mr A said Halifax didnt think it was important to make it clear that they didnt 
need to pay the ERC.
Having listened to recordings of Mr and Mrs As calls with Halifax, I dont think it spoke to 
them inappropriately. I dont think Halifax caused delays with Mr and Mrs As application or 
added unfair conditions to the mortgage offer. I think Halifax was clear that they didnt need 
to pay the ERC. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs A were asked for information 
or evidence that Halifax wouldnt have requested from any other customer in a similar 
position. As such, I cant agree they were treated unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman