DRN-2974982
The complaint
Mr W complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited unfairly declined a claim on his home 
insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr W said hed been dealing with an occasional leak in his shower area over a long period of 
time. Hed carried out repairs whenever itd happened. And hed only just become aware of 
more extensive damage during redecoration. Until that point the additional damage hadnt 
been visible. Mr W felt hed taken reasonable steps to prevent further damage. He wasnt 
aware of more extensive damage behind a tiled wall surface and in the ceiling void. And he 
feels UIA treated him unfairly in declining his claim. 
UIA said Mr W had notified it of a long-term water leak at his home. Itd spoken to Mr W to 
get a better understanding of whatd happened. And it understood Mr W had been aware of 
the leak for about two years. Mr W had carried out repairs to the shower trap but the leak 
had started again about a year ago. And Mr W had been collecting water in a bucket.
UIA carried out an inspection and it found failed seals to both the shower tray and cubicle. 
Rot was noted in the floor joists. So UIA declined the claim as itd been ongoing for a long 
period of time. Gradual damage wasnt covered by the home insurance policy. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with UIAs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She considered whether UIA had acted fairly in declining Mr Ws 
claim. So she looked at the report and photos and felt they showed the floor joists had rotted 
away over time. This meant the issue stemmed from gradual damage. And that wasnt 
covered by Mr Ws policy.
Our investigator couldnt say Mr W had been unaware of the problem. Hed taken occasional 
steps to correct the issue. And she felt Mr W couldve contacted UIA sooner to try and 
resolve the ongoing issue. So she didnt think UIA had acted unfairly in applying the gradual 
damage exclusion and declining the claim. And she couldnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt think it was reasonable for him to be aware of damage or decay 
behind closed-in surfaces. And he didnt think his repairs wouldve caused any further 
damage or made it difficult for the insurer to determine what damage might be covered. 
Mr W didnt want to make an insurance claim just because of occasional splats of water in 
the kitchen below. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr W has experienced. Hes been aware of a problem with 
a leak from his shower area for some time. 
Mr W says he tried to fix it rather than bother his insurer for what seemed a minor problem. 
And hes only just become aware of more extensive damage after he started to redecorate.
When deciding if I think UIAs decision to decline Mr Ws claim is fair I have to start by 
deciding if an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the cause of the 
damage. And it would have to be listed as an insured peril in the home insurance policy 
document. But if the cause of the damage is noted as an exception, Im sorry to say a claim 
cant be made.
Mr Ws home insurance policy includes cover for a number of sudden and unforeseen 
events including an escape of water. But certain exclusions apply to the cover, including 
damage that occurs gradually over a period of time.
Mr W has acknowledged the leak had been taking place occasionally over a period of about 
two years. So strictly speaking I cant say UIA acted incorrectly in applying the gradual 
damage exclusion clause when it declined Mr Ws claim. He informed his insurer hed known 
about the leak for a period of time and had carried out repairs to try and fix the problem. And 
the inspection carried out by the specialist confirmed the floor joists had been rotting for 
some time. 
But Ive considered whether Mr W shouldve been aware of the damage thatd occurred, and 
whether he took reasonable action as soon as he became aware. If Mr W wasnt aware of 
the damage, he couldnt have done anything about it. And it would be unfair for him to lose 
out because of the exclusion.
When Mr W spoke to UIA he confirmed hed known thered been a problem for a couple of 
years. Hed replaced the seal on the shower tray, but the leak had started again. And he 
didnt think the splatters of water on his kitchen units in the room below were sufficiently 
worrying to contact his insurer about. Instead he collected the drips in a bucket when 
needed. 
Mr W tried to deal with the problem himself. He didnt want to bother his insurer when he 
thought he could carry out repairs and stop the leak. But Mr W had been dealing with water 
leaking into his kitchen for months or even years following prolonged shower use  even if it 
was just a moderate drip. 
While he may not have been aware of further damage building up behind the tiles or in the 
floor joists, I do think Mr W couldve contacted UIA at an earlier point to at least discuss the 
problem.  I appreciate Mr W felt hed reacted with appropriate repairs each time an escape 
of water occurred. But that shows he was aware there was an ongoing issue causing 
damage in the room below. And if hed reported it to UIA sooner, his insurer couldve 
arranged for an inspection that might have prevented greater damage building up over a 
period of time. 
I can see Mr W objected to UIAs decision to decline the claim. So the insurer appointed an 
expert to carry out an inspection and Ive looked at the report and photos taken of the 
damaged area.
When an insurer instructs someone to carry out an inspection Id expect them to have the 
relevant knowledge and experience to assess the claim. And I think UIA was entitled to rely 
on its experts opinion to decline Mr Ws claim. Ive not seen anything to say it was 
unreasonable to do so.
 I know Mr W felt he was taking steps to prevent further damage. And he feels he shouldnt 
be penalised for damage he was unaware of. But based on everything Ive seen I think Mr W 
was aware there was an ongoing problem and he couldve contacted UIA at an earlier date. 
The home insurance policy provides cover for damage caused by certain one-off perils. But 
the policy doesnt provide cover in other circumstances and it excludes damage that 
happens gradually. In the circumstances I think it was reasonable for UIA to say that the 
damage had been caused gradually rather than suddenly. And I think Mr W was reasonably 
aware there was a problem as the leak had re-occurred on a number of occasions over a 
two year period.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But I consider it was fair for UIA to 
decline Mr Ws claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman