DRN-2973415
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not respond fully to a request he made for 
information it held about him.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision recently explaining that I was inclined to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
Mr L had a mortgage with Lloyds that was taken out around 1998. He took a further advance 
around 2002. Mr L repaid the borrowing to Lloyds in full in 2005.
In 2019 Mr L made a complaint to Lloyds about it having mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI) alongside the mortgage and further advance. As part of the complaint he 
made a data subject access request (DSAR) to Lloyds for all of the information it held in 
relation to him.
Mr L brought his complaint about PPI having been mis-sold to our service. This was dealt 
with under a separate complaint with a final decision made by another ombudsman on the 
merits of the matter. I wont be revisiting any of the issues covered under that complaint, 
specifically whether or not the PPI policy was mis-sold, here. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Ls DSAR and provided the information it says it held for Mr L. Mr L 
then raised concerns with Lloyds that some information within the file it sent to him had been 
redacted. He also said he felt there was information missing  particularly relating to the PPI 
policy.
Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had provided Mr L with all of the relevant 
information. And it said anything redacted had been removed for a legitimate reason allowed 
by the relevant information rights regulations  most likely as it was not Mr Ls personal 
information.
Unhappy with this response Mr L asked our service to look into whether Lloyds had made an 
error when responding to his request for information. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He explained that it wasnt the role of our 
service to look at whether Lloyds had breached data protection regulations  that would be a 
matter for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). But looking at things on a fair and 
reasonable basis he thought Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong as it appeared to have 
provided the information it was required to and acted reasonably by redacting some 
information.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion  noting he was unhappy that we wouldnt be 
reviewing whether Lloyds had breached relevant data protection regulations. So, he asked 
for his case to be reviewed again. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
I think it is worth first reiterating the role of our service. We are an impartial dispute resolution 
service, free to use to consumers and an alternative to the courts. We arent a regulator and 
it isnt our role to fine or punish a business. While we have regard for relevant laws or 
regulations, our role is to look at individual disputes and decide, on a fair and reasonable 
basis, whether there has been an error by the business complained about and, if so, what 
the fair way to put things right is.
Mr L made a data subject access request (DSAR) to Lloyds. Broadly speaking Mr L has the 
right to ask for the personal data, and supplementary information, a business holds about 
him. And that is what he asked for when making a DSAR.
Lloyds responded, as I wouldve expected it to, and provided information it said it held. 
Mr Ls concerns are that this information was incomplete, and some details have been 
redacted.
Lloyds has said that where it redacted information this was because it is not personal data 
relating to Mr L or there was another legitimate reason to do so. It also said that where whole 
pages were redacted this can be because the pages are actually blank  and this is how its 
system operates. I think the explanation for why some information was redacted provided by 
Lloyds is reasonable. Again, Mr L has a right to his data but if information does not relate to 
him, I dont think it is unreasonable if Lloyds removes that. Mr L has said that he was the 
only party to the mortgage so doesnt understand why data not belonging to him might be 
included in the documentation. But the data could belong to members of staff that have 
processed his mortgage application for example. So overall, I dont think I can reasonably 
say Lloyds has acted unfairly by redacting information where it thinks it has legitimate 
grounds to do so.
I do though think Lloyds made an error when responding to the DSAR.
Lloyds sent us a copy of the information it shared with Mr L in response to his DSAR. This 
didnt include certain documents in relation to his PPI policy, which Lloyds had provided our 
service in relation to his separate complaint about the sale of that policy. These documents 
contained personal information belonging to Mr L. So, it appears Lloyds did not provide all of 
the information it held in relation to Mr L in its response.
I put this to Lloyds, and it has now acknowledged that an error was made and its response 
was incomplete. It has said this was due to human error, with the request not having been 
referred to the relevant team for the information relating to his insurance policies to also be 
included. I think this explanation is reasonable.
As Lloyds accepts an error was made, all that is left for me to decide is what a fair way to put 
that right is.
Lloyds has said it apologises for the error, has begun processing another DSAR on behalf of 
Mr L and will send him the documents it previously omitted shortly.
I think this goes some way to putting matters right. Im conscious though that Mr L has been 
trying to explain that the information he originally received was incomplete for some time. I 
think this complaint could largely have been avoided if there had been better internal 
communication by Lloyds to make sure that all of the relevant departments had shared 
information in full. And I dont doubt it was frustrating and upsetting for Mr L to be incorrectly 
told Lloyds response was complete. With that in mind, I think, in addition to arranging to 
send Mr L the missing information, itd be fair for Lloyds to pay Mr L £150 in compensation, 
to address the upset caused by its error.
Responses to my provisional decisionI gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds said it accepted my provisional decision. It said it had already begun putting together 
the information to send to Mr L and agreed to pay the suggested £150.
Mr L said, while he was thankful I had indicated I intended to uphold the complaint, he didnt 
agree with some of my findings. He said he did not accept that there had been a human 
error by Lloyds. He said he felt Lloyds had purposely withheld information and given him 
incorrect information. He said Lloyds had told him that information had been redacted as it 
didnt belong to him on more than one occasion  and this happening multiple times was part 
of the reason he didnt accept there had been a human error.
He said as part of his PPI complaint Lloyds had said it needed more information from him. 
But he had been unable to dispute its findings because it hadnt provided him all of the 
information he asked for. And he noted that the PPI complaint deadline had since passed.
Lastly, he said he did not accept my suggestion that Lloyds pay him £150. He said this had 
caused him months of stress and anxiety, at a time when he was already seeking medical 
assistance for similar issues, and he would not accept less than £1,500 for the upset 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think I need to clarify that Lloyds has not said human error was behind some of the 
information in the documents it did provide to Mr L being redacted. It has said that these 
documents were redacted correctly and for a valid reason, as allowed under the relevant 
data protection regulations.
As I explained in my provisional findings, I thought Lloyds explanation as to why some 
information was redacted was reasonable. And I havent seen anything that has led me to 
think otherwise. So, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably by redacting some of the 
documents it did send to Mr L.
Where Lloyds did make an error and where it did say this was due to human error is that 
some documents were not sent to Mr L, after he made his DSAR request. Lloyds has 
indicated that the departments that would deal with, and have access to information relating 
to, mortgages and insurance (such as PPI) are separate. And so, where a DSAR was made, 
theyd both need to respond. And it was human error that meant the insurance department 
was not asked to do so. I think this explanation is reasonable given what highlighted these 
issues to Mr L, and was proven by our service, related to PPI. Mr L says he doesnt accept 
this and thinks the information was intentionally withheld. But nothing Ive seen leads me to 
conclude this, and Im satisfied with Lloyds explanation as to why this error was made.
Mr L has mentioned Lloyds responses to his PPI complaint and the deadline for complaints 
now having passed. As I explained in my provisional findings, our service considered his PPI 
complaint separately. And an ombudsman issued a final decision in respect of that 
complaint. I will not be revisiting any of those issues here.
Turning to what Mr L has said about the distress this caused him, as I said in my provisional 
findings, I dont doubt he found this matter was very frustrating. And Im sorry to hear about 
the issues hes mentioned. But while I dont doubt this was frustrating, Im also conscious that the information he requested was in relation to accounts that had been closed for a 
number of years. And it wasnt needed to deal with a live issue with any accounts, but rather 
to support a complaint he wished to make about PPI. So, taking everything into account, 
while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, Im not inclined to depart from my 
provisional findings, and I remain of the opinion that Lloyds paying him £150 to address the 
upset caused is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ls complaint.
To put things right I direct Lloyds Bank PLC pay Mr L £150 in addition to processing a further 
data subject access request on his behalf.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman