DRN-4415359
The complaint
Mr T complains that Butler Toll Ltd (BT) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his existing 
pension arrangements, including a Money Purchase Occupational Pension Scheme (MP 
OPS) with a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) underpin in 2003. He believes the advice 
has caused him a loss. 
Mr T is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
What happened
I understand that Mr T was looking to see what his options were in 2003. So he met with a 
BT adviser to discuss his retirement planning needs in 2003. And signed BTs Terms of 
Business letter on 12 May 2003.
Mr T met BT on 16 June 2003. BTs meeting notes recorded that the meeting was arranged 
to discuss current pension arrangements. And that Mr T was considering purchasing a 
commercial property. And that hed like to transfer his existing arrangements into a personal 
pension (PP) with a provider Ill refer to as provider S so that if he did find a suitable property 
hed be able to purchase this quickly. The notes also recorded that Mr T was unhappy with 
the current investment performance of his personal pension with a provider Ill refer to as 
provider A, and with his MP OPS. 
BT took an action to write to Mr Ts pension providers to obtain values and policy 
information. The notes also recorded that it didnt discuss any other elements of Mr Ts 
finances. 
At the time of the advice, Mr T had the following pension schemes:
a personal pension (PP) with provider A with a value of £72,750.84.
A protected rights (PR) pension with provider A. This had a value of £15,040. 
A Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (FSAVC) with provider A. 
This had a transfer value of £15,006.39 after provider A had made deductions from 
the fund value in respect of charges. 
Benefits in an MP OPS. Mr T had left the employer which provided the MP OPS in 
February 2020. It had a transfer value of £63,507.99. This included Post-97 PR of 
£2,759.42 and a GMP underpin of £9,840. 
Mr T was aged 50 at the time of the advice. He was married and employed. 
On 25 June 2003, BT wrote to Mr Ts existing providers to ask it for information on his 
pensions. It noted that his PR with provider A werent to be transferred, but that charges 
were to be compared.
Provider A wrote to BT on 2 July 2003 to tell it that the transfer value for Mr Ts FSAVC was 
£13,702.62. The current value was £15,525.52. But the difference reflected the charge 
provider A would take from the fund to recoup some of its costs, given the plan wouldnt run 
to its original maturity date. Provider A also sent BT general plan details and information on 
charges. 
On 3 July 2003, Mr Ts MP OPS administrator wrote to BT about Mr Ts MP OPS transfer 
request. It provided the unit holding of the existing arrangement. This showed that Mr T was 
invested in the Mixed fund. It didnt note that there was a GMP underpin on Mr Ts pension 
as a result of that scheme having previously contracted out on a GMP basis.
BT said that it met with Mr T on 5 August 2003 to discuss his existing pensions. It said its 7 
August 2003 file note recorded that Mr T was happy to proceed with the transfer to the PP 
with provider S. And that hed signed the discharge forms. 
On 11 August 2003, provider S wrote to BT with a projection of Mr Ts benefits at age 60, 
assuming he transferred £142,612 that day. It also noted that BT would receive commission 
equating to 3.75% of the transfer. 
BT issued a suitability report dated 12 August 2003. It noted that Mr T had the following 
objectives, which formed the basis of its rationale for the recommendation:
He was considering purchasing a commercial property.
He wasnt happy with the investment performance of his schemes.
The report said that in order to achieve his objectives, Mr T would need to transfer his 
benefits into a SIPP. It also noted that the funds in the PP with provider A could be 
transferred to provider S with no penalty. And that as the PR pension with provider A 
couldnt be transferred to a SIPP, BT would compare the charging structures of provider A 
and provider S to see if it was in Mr Ts best interest to transfer.
The report noted the benefits in the MP OPS, including death benefits and the maximum tax-
free cash (TFC) Mr T could take. It said that the maximum TFC at Mr Ts date of leaving his 
MP OPS was £16,159.06. And that this would increase in line with inflation each year until 
he took benefits. It compared this to the reduced amount that Mr T would be able to take as 
TFC if he transferred to a PP. But the report also stated that if Mr T transferred his MP OPS, 
hed have the freedom to choose where to invest his money, including commercial property. 
It said that his current investment choice was more restricted. 
The report also stated that if Mr T transferred his MP OPS, hed also have to transfer his 
FSAVC held with provider A, as it was connected. It said that provider A would apply a 
penalty to the FSAVC transfer value as Mr T would be transferring it before his selected 
retirement age. 
But the report concluded that despite the reduction in TFC and the penalty on transfer of the 
FSAVC, there would be greater potential to increase Mr Ts pension fund if he transferred his 
MP OPS and the FSAVC to provider S and then onto a SIPP. 
Mr T accepted the recommendation and decided to transfer the benefits with his MP OPS, 
his FSAVC, and this PP with provider A to provider S.
On 19 August 2003, provider S wrote to BT with a projection of Mr Ts PR fund at age 65, 
assuming he transferred £15,040 that day. It also noted that BT would receive commission 
equating to 3.75% of the transfer. Provider S sent BT further information about Mr Ts personal pension on 26 August 2003. 
And on 27 August 2003, it wrote to BT again to state that Mr Ts transfer would be invested 
in the following funds: 40% Property, 30% Sterling, 30% Equity.
Provider S noted that a transfer of £72,750.84 had been applied on 22 August 2003.
On 15 September 2003, BT wrote to Mr T to tell him that provider S had received his PP 
transfer from provider A. And that the £72,750.84 had been invested 40% in Property 
(£29,185.20), 30% in UK Equity (£21,928.37) and 30% in Sterling (£21,853.60).
On 19 September 2003, the administrator for Mr Ts MP OPS wrote to BT with a transfer 
quotation. Like the 3 July 2003 statement, this also failed to show the GMP underpin which 
applied to Mr Ts pension.
On 7 October 2003, BT wrote to provider S about the MP OPS transfer. It enclosed relevant 
completed forms for the transfer. And on 7 November 2003, provider S wrote to BT to tell it 
that the MP OPS administrator was waiting for the money to be disinvested, but was 
expecting that the following week. 
On 10 November 2003, provider S received a cheque in respect of Mr Ts FSAVC for 
£15,006.39.
On 18 November 2003, BT wrote to Mr T to update him on the transfer of his MP OPS, 
which it said should be sent that week. It said that in line with the 12 August 2003 report, it 
would invest those funds in a PP with provider S. 
BT also noted it had discussed changing Mr Ts PP to a SIPP so that he could invest in 
Corporate funds. It said that itd received commission on the transfer to the PP with provider 
S. But that it was prepared to arrange the transfer to a SIPP without commission. Instead, it 
would charge an annual 0.5% fund-based fee for reviewing Mr Ts SIPP on a regular basis. It 
also noted that Mr T was still interested in purchasing a commercial property with some or all 
of his pension fund. 
On 2 December 2003, after receiving Mr Ts completed discharge forms, the administrator 
for Mr Ts MP OPS wrote to BT to tell it that it had failed to show the GMP underpin on its 
previous quotation. It apologised. And said that as the MP OPS had previously been 
contracted out on a GMP basis, the current value if Mr Ts GMP underpin was £9,840. This 
value had been included in the pre-97 part of the transfer value itd quoted. It also said that 
Mr Ts GMP at his date of leaving the scheme was £641.16 each year, all of which was in 
respect of Post-88 GMP. And that the GMP would revalue at the fixed rate of 6.25% for each 
complete tax year between the date of leaving and State Pension Age.
BT said that because of the failure of the MP OPS administrator to previously provide details 
of the underpin, it now required a letter from Mr T to confirm that he still wanted to proceed 
with the transfer. And that Mr T had confirmed to the MP OPS administrator on 9 December 
2003 that he wanted to proceed with the transfer to a PP with provider S. Later that month 
provider S received a cheque for £63,507.99.  
On 5 January 2004, BT wrote to Mr T with the policy documentation for his recent transfer to 
the PP with provider S. It asked him to check the documents. These noted that the payment 
was to be invested in the Sterling fund, with a selected pension age of 60. 
On 20 January 2004, BT met with Mr T. BTs meeting note recorded that the meeting had 
been arranged to discuss transferring Mr Ts funds to a SIPP with provider S. And so that he 
could discuss and agree his investment choices. The note said that the following investments were agreed:
20% Corporate property, 20% Corporate UK Fixed Interest, 15% Corporate managed, 15% 
Corporate stock exchange, 10% Corporate UK equity, 10% Fidelity special situation, 10% 
Newton managed.
The note also confirmed that the set up was to be done on a nil commission basis. But that a 
0.5% fund-based charge would be made after that to cover annual reviews. 
On 20 January 2004, BT confirmed Mr Ts investment choices to the SIPP provider. It 
included an application form that Mr T had signed on 25 November 2003.
On 28 January 2004, provider S wrote to BT to confirm itd received the request to transfer 
Mr Ts PP n to a SIPP. It said that £142,205.93 had been paid into the SIPP bank account.
On 23 April 2004, BT met with Mr T. Its meeting note recorded that itd discussed with Mr T 
whether it was still appropriate to look at the commercial property market. And said that BT 
had agreed with Mr T that given the relaxations on residential property going into pension 
funds the following year, he should remain invested as he was.
Mr T said he saw an online advert about potential pensions mis-selling in July 2022. And that 
this prompted him to discuss his situation with his CMC. He said that he hadnt been aware 
that he could raise a complaint about the 2003 advice until hed had this discussion, as hed 
been unaware of the guarantees within his MP OPS until then.
Mr T complained to BT  through his CMC - about the advice on 20 December 2022. He felt 
itd been negligent and unsuitable for the following reasons:
- The advice shouldve only been provided after BT fully understood his circumstances 
and needs, and after all of the risks involved had been fully explained to Mr T. But he 
felt that the documents he received in relation to his pension were full of financial 
jargon which BT had failed to explain to him, and which he hadnt fully understood.
- He felt that BT hadnt assessed his financial situation in full, in particular his risk 
profile, capacity for loss and financial situation.
- He felt that thered been no follow-ups.
- As Mr T had been 50 at the time of the transfers, it may have been possible for him 
to access his MP OPS, the tax-free cash (TFC) and retain his GMP. But BT didnt 
appear to have considered his previous scheme. Mr T felt he hadnt been provided 
with sufficient information to make an informed decision.
- He felt that BT had failed to sufficiently highlight the guarantees held within his former 
MP OPS. 
- He felt that BT had failed to make clear to him that in transferring, his new investment 
would need to make additional growth to compensate for the fees charged for the 
transfer.
- And that BT had failed to act in his best interests. As a result, he felt hed lost out. 
Mr T wanted BT to put him back to the position he wouldve been in but for the negligent 
advice.BT issued its final response to the complaint on 15 February 2023. It felt the advice had 
been suitable. And said that following completion of the transfers in 2003, it remained in 
regular contact with Mr T. It also said that the advice was explained to Mr T during meetings 
and in its August 2003 suitability report.
Mr T was unhappy with BTs response. So he brought his complaint to this service, through 
his CMC, on 15 February 2023. It said BT had said that Mr Ts main objective in 2003 was to 
transfer his pensions to a pension which could enable his commercial property purchase. 
But Mr T had told it that hed wanted better returns from his pension. And that BT hadnt 
provided him with any other alternatives other than transferring his pensions. 
The CMC said that BT hadnt done enough to explain the benefits held within Mr Ts MP 
OPS, or how the transfer might impact his retirement income. It also felt that Mr T had 
enough funds in his personal pensions that he wouldnt have had to transfer his MP OPS 
benefits, which had led to losing the GMPs within it. It also said that there was no evidence 
that Mr T had signed a declaration at the time of the advice that hed understood the risks 
involved.
The CMC said that BT didnt look at alternatives to meet Mr Ts objectives. And that if it had, 
he would've explored these rather than transferring away from his MP OPS, given the vital 
guarantees it held. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that BT shouldnt have 
recommended that Mr T switched his MP OPS and FSAVC, as it wasnt in his best interests. 
While she didnt think the personal pension switch in itself was unsuitable, she felt that BT 
hadnt acted fairly as it hadnt considered or recommended any investments at the time of 
advice. Therefore she proposed redress which would establish whether Mr T had suffered a 
loss as a result of the advice. And if it had, to put him back to the position he wouldve 
otherwise most likely have been in but for the unsuitable advice.
BT didnt agree with our investigator. It said that Mr Ts main reason for transferring his 
existing pensions was so he could place the funds in a Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) 
that could be used for the purpose of purchasing a commercial property, possibly with other 
investors. It said Mr T had been looking to operate a business from the property. Therefore it 
didnt agree that the reason for the transfer of the existing pensions was simply to achieve a 
greater return. It said that none of Mr Ts existing arrangements couldve been used in a 
commercial property purchase through a SIPP. 
BT also said that both property purchases and pension transfers could be long and 
protracted processes. So Mr T had wanted to have a plan in place that he could use as soon 
as hed found a property. It also said the decision to proceed with the pension transfers 
wasnt taken lightly by either it or Mr T.
BT said that Mr T hadnt been able to find a suitable property. And that enabled it to engage 
with Mr T on an ongoing basis to provide investment advice on a regular basis. It said Mr T 
was also able to take advantage of the drawdown facility in his pension. And said that his 
final withdrawal had been used to fund a buy-to-let property purchase.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I first considered whether Mr T had brought his complaint in time. Mr T said he first became 
aware he might have a cause for complaint about the 2003 advice in July 2022. He 
complained to BT in December 2022.
As Ive seen no evidence that Mr T was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware that 
he might have cause for complaint before July 2022, Im satisfied that Mr T has complained 
in time. And that his complaint about the 2003 advice is one that I can consider the merits of.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the advice BT gave 
Mr T to transfer his MP OPS and FSAVC wasnt in his best interests. And that although the 
advice to transfer the personal pension wasnt in itself unsuitable, BT shouldve 
recommended investments at the time of the advice. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
I first considered the transfer of Mr Ts PP from provider A to provider S. 
As the advice took place in 2003, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider good 
industry practice in 2003. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the 
Conduct of Business (COB) rules. In particular COB 5.3.5R meant that BT had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that its advice was suitable for Mr T. 
The transfer of Mr Ts PP with provider A
BT said that provider A had been closed to new business at the time of the advice. And that 
the existing contracts were subject to higher charges. It felt this was eroding the accrued 
fund value of Mr Ts PP. So it felt that the lower charging structure applicable to the PP with 
provider S would be better for Mr T.
In order to assess whether the advice to transfer Mr Ts PP with provider A to a PP with 
provider S was suitable, Ive considered the relative charges. I also note that BT would 
charge a 3.75% commission for arranging the transfer. But as Mr T was aged 50 at the time 
of the advice, with a selected retirement age of 60, he had a ten-year investment period over 
which to make up for the commission that would be charged. 
The PP with provider S had an annual management charge (AMC) of 1%, although this 
would be discounted to 0.8% for fund values over £50,000. 
The PP with provider A had the following charges:
A bid/offer spread which meant that Mr Ts contributions were worth about 5% less 
immediately after they were paid into the plan.
AMC of 0.75% a year.
An indexed policy charge of £4.74 each month.
If Mr T followed BTs recommendation, he would also be paying it 0.5% of his fund value 
each year as a fee for ongoing reviews. Despite that, Im satisfied that the combined charges 
under the PP with provider S  even when the commission was taken into account - were 
significantly lower than the fees that applied to his PP with provider A. And Mr T would also 
receive ongoing reviews of his investments. 
From what Ive seen, the advice BT gave Mr T to switch his PP with provider A to the PP 
with provider S wasnt unsuitable. I say this because the charging structure was better, he 
would receive ongoing reviews, and Im satisfied that he had enough time left to invest his funds to more than make up for the commission paid. There would also be no penalties or 
lost guarantees on such a transfer. 
Although Im satisfied the recommendation to transfer his PP with provider A was suitable for 
Mr T, I also need to decide whether BT gave him suitable investment recommendations. 
BTs August 2003 suitability report doesnt recommend any investments. And I havent been 
provided with a fact find from the time of the advice.
BT told this service that it couldnt locate the fact find that it wouldve completed at the time 
of the advice. It said that after a series of face-to-face meetings with Mr T around the time of 
the advice, it had discussed different asset classes available and their related risk profiles. 
And that through these discussions, it had deemed Mr T to be a non-average retail investor 
 an entrepreneur - who wanted to purchase a commercial property utilising a SIPP.
BT also said that it had discussed with Mr T the choice of funds available both for his PP 
with provider S and his SIPP. It said the email of 15 September 2003 showed an asset split. 
And the file note dated 20 January 2004 showed a further asset split. BT also said that the 
file note dated 23 April 2004 showed that the performance of the SIPP was discussed. 
BT also provided the following documentary evidence which it felt demonstrated that itd 
regularly considered Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR):
- a Knowledge and Experience Assessment form dated 27 January 2010 which 
indicated that Mr T was an individual who purchased direct equities without using 
professional investment advice and on an execution only basis.
- a fact find dated 1 February 2010. At this time, Mr Ts ATR had been assessed as 
Adventurous.
- Further emails from Mr T over the years which it felt showed that he had an interest 
in self-investment and had the ability to manage his own portfolio.
BT also said that from 2007 to 2011, Mr Ts PP was invested in an adventurous investment 
model. And that from 2011 to 2023, a moderate investment model. And that it constantly 
addressed his investments with him.
Mr T said his ATR at the time of the advice was medium. Im persuaded that this was 
reasonable given he was invested in the mixed fund within his MP OPS. And because BT 
sent him a report in 2006 which stated that it: established that your attitude to risk could 
realistically be described as balanced.
Overall, while Ive noted that BT has provided evidence that Mr Ts ATR changed over time, 
Im satisfied that its reasonable to conclude that at the time of the advice Mr T was a 
balanced, medium risk investor. 
The suitability report stated the following about fund choice:
Choosing suitable investments is essentially a matter of balancing risk with reward. In 
general terms, the higher the potential for returns, the higher the downside risk. It is 
therefore important that you choose investments with which you feel comfortable. 
We agreed to discuss your investment strategy once all monies have been received.
I can see that after the initial advice, BT discussed investments with Mr T. It also had to choose investments on the application form for the PP with provider S on 27 August 2003. 
But Ive not seen any evidence of BT providing any investment recommendations at the time 
of the advice. Nor have I seen evidence of any consideration of his future investment 
strategy, other than a vague plan that he might buy a commercial property. 
At the time of the advice, BT was required to ensure the suitability of its advice for Mr T. It 
had to know relevant facts about Mr T so that it could ensure that any recommended 
investments were and remained suitable for him.
Ive not seen enough evidence that BT understood how Mr T wanted to invest at the time of 
the advice. I appreciate that it felt he wanted to invest in a commercial property, but his plans 
for doing so were in their early stages, and his pension funds had to be invested immediately 
after the transfer. Ive also seen no evidence that BT conducted any analysis of what sort of 
return Mr T might achieve from any investment he might make. 
I agree with our investigator that although BT intended that Mr T would eventually transfer to 
a SIPP so that he could invest in a commercial property, this wasnt his immediate plan. And 
in any event, BT initially recommended that Mr T transferred his PP with provider A to the PP 
with provider S. I consider that BT shouldve investigated where Mr T would invest his funds 
and whether these were suitable for his circumstances. As this wasnt done at the time of 
advice, Im not satisfied that BT acted in Mr Ts best interests. And I further agree with our 
investigator that, although the transfer itself wasnt unsuitable, BT shouldve carried out 
analysis to assess where Mr T would invest his funds once the transfer had taken place.
Ill cover the redress I consider is necessary later on in my decision.
I next considered the recommendation to transfer Mr Ts MP OPS and his FSAVC to 
provider S. 
Mr Ts MP OPS and his FSAVC
In addition to the transfer of Mr Ts PP with provider A, BT also recommended that he 
transfer his MP OPS and his FSAVC.
As I noted earlier, Mr Ts benefits in the MP OPS included both a GMP underpin and PR. He 
was invested in a mixed fund, which I consider suitable for a medium ATR investor. Mr T 
also had a FSAVC connected to his MP OPS. 
The charges for Mr Ts FSAVC were:
A bid/offer spread which meant that Mr Ts contributions were worth about 5% less 
immediately after they were paid into the plan.
A capital unit charge of 3.5% of their value when purchased
An AMC of 0.75% a year.
An indexed policy charge of £4.74 each month.
As noted above, provider A would also impose a penalty equivalent to the charges that it 
wouldve taken in future on transfer.
It seems that the only cost in Mr Ts MP OPS was a bid/offer spread. For the mixed fund he 
was invested in, this was approximately 5% at the outset. There doesnt appear to have 
been any ongoing charge.Based on what I consider was Mr Ts ATR at the time of the advice, which I covered earlier 
in this decision, Ive looked at the funds available in Mr Ts MP OPS. I can see that there 
were a variety of funds which he couldve used to match his current and future investment 
needs. As our investigator noted, there were 20 funds listed on his benefit statement notes. 
So, if Mr T had been unhappy with the performance of his MP OPS and had decided to 
change his investments, he couldve completed a fund switch within that scheme to match 
his ATR.
I can see that the recommendation to switch Mr Ts MP OPS to the PP, and then to a SIPP, 
led to a more expensive pension. For the PP with provider S, there was an AMC of 1%, 
which was reduced to 0.8% for balances over £50,000, as well as the ongoing charge Mr T 
would pay BT for an ongoing service. The combined charge under the PP with provider S 
would therefore be higher than the existing charge on Mr Ts MP OPS scheme. And then the 
3.75% commission paid to BT on the transfer would also need to be considered. 
I acknowledge that BT said that at the time of the advice, Mr T was an entrepreneur looking 
to establish a business. And that at that time, thered been a lot of discussion in the press 
about commercial property purchase being possible through a SIPP. It said that although Mr 
T didnt have a specific property in mind, hed wanted to establish a PP that could be used 
for a commercial property purchase when hed found one. And as itd confirmed that Mr Ts 
current arrangements couldnt facilitate such a purchase, hed needed to set up a different 
pension plan to meet this need. 
I appreciate that BT also felt that if Mr T transferred to a PP with provider S, and then on to a 
SIPP, hed have more freedom to choose where to invest his money. And I also note that BT 
waived any further commission on the eventual SIPP transfer.
BT also said, as I noted earlier, that provider As closure to new business had led to higher 
charges. So this meant that although there was a transfer penalty for the FSAVC, this was 
mitigated by the lower charging structure available with provider S. 
But Im not satisfied that this justifies the transfer of Mr Ts MP OPS or his FSAVC. I say this 
because the new arrangement BT felt Mr T needed to be set up, couldve been set up simply 
with a transfer from his PP with provider A. Then, if Mr T had found a suitable commercial 
property, it wouldve been relatively easy to arrange the MP OPS and FSAVC transfer if that 
was the best way for Mr T to complete the purchase at that time. 
Im also not persuaded that the potential benefits of the recommendation justified the 
charges in the new arrangement, the commission BT charged, the potentially lower TFC, the 
penalty charged against the FSAVC or the loss of the GMP benefit in the MP OPS. As our 
investigator said, it was unlikely that the investment performance in the new arrangement 
would be so much better than that in the old arrangements that it would more than 
compensate Mr T for all of the additional costs and lost benefits. 
I also note that BT made its recommendation to transfer without having discussed any other 
elements of Mr Ts finances with him. So it didnt even consider any other options Mr T might 
have to potentially achieve the commercial property purchase he might want to make.  
Before I consider the redress, Id also like to acknowledge a further point BT has made. It 
said that the advice it set out in its August 2003 suitability report was prepared on the basis 
of the information provided by provider A and by the administrator of the MP OPS. But that 
the administrator of the MP OPS had written to it on 3 December 2003 to explain itd made 
an error when it hadnt previously provided the GMP underpin in its quotations.
I can see that the administrator of the MP OPS did fail to issue transfer quotations showing the GMP underpin on at least two occasions. But it explained its mistake and provided the 
correct information before Mr T had transferred his MP OPS to his PP with provider S. And 
although Mr T had to confirm he still wanted to go ahead with the transfer, Ive seen no 
evidence that BT explained what this new information meant. Or that it suggested to Mr T 
that it reconsider its advice in light of the new information. So the failure of the administrator 
to provide full and correct information at the start of the advice period doesnt change my 
mind about BTs responsibility to Mr T in this complaint. 
Im satisfied that BT shouldnt have advised Mr T to transfer his MP OPS and FSAVC. It 
clearly wasnt in his best interests at that time. I consider that if the adviser had advised Mr T 
to stay in the MP OPS, he wouldve done so. BT should therefore carry out a loss calculation 
to establish whether there has been a loss as a result of the unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr T as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Transfer from PP with provider A to PP with provider S
Although I believe Mr T wouldve transferred his PP with provider A to provider S, I think he 
wouldve invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what he wouldve done, but Im 
satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
What must Butler Toll Ltd do?
To compensate Mr T fairly Butler Toll L
Compare the performance of his funds within his PP with provider S that derive from 
his transfer from his PP with provider A with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Butler Toll Ltd should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Butler Toll Ltd should pay into Mr T's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Butler Toll Ltd shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Butler Toll Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr T would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Butler Toll Ltd deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Butler Toll Ltd should give Mr T 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
and liquidFTSE 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentMy final 
decision8% simple 
per year 
from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving Mr 
T's 
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all 
those payments are totalled and then deducted at the end to determine the fair value instead 
of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr T's circumstances and risk attitude.
MP OPS and FSAVC transfer
I think Mr T wouldve remained with his MP OPS and FSAVC provider, however I cant be 
certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy wouldve been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr T's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Butler Toll Ltd do?
To compensate Mr T fairly Butler Toll Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with the notional value if itd 
remained with the previous providers (for the MP OPS and FSAVC). If the actual 
value is greater than the combined notional value of these, no compensation is 
payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
Butler Toll Ltd should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Butler Toll Ltd must pay into Mr T's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Butler Toll Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr T 
wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Butler Toll Ltd deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. Butler Toll Ltd should give Mr T 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists Notional 
value from Date of My final 8% simple 
per year and liquid previous 
providers investment decision from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving Mr 
T's 
acceptance
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr T's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Butler Toll Ltd must request that the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
those payments are totalled and deducted at the end to determine the notional value instead 
of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Butler Toll Ltd will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr T's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Butler Toll Ltd must pay the amount calculated as 
set out above.
Butler Toll Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman