DRN-2860210
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R represent the estate of the late Mrs J. Mr R and Mrs R complain that the 
advice she received from Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam) was unsuitable and 
investment returns were poor.
What happened
In November 2009, Mrs J received advice from a firm that I will call Company A. Mrs R 
invested a sum of £90,881.70. In August 2103, Mrs J withdrew £12,983 from the portfolio. 
The value of the portfolio in July 2019 was £94,281.83.
Mr R and Mrs R complained to Sanlam on behalf of Mrs Js estate on 20 July 2019. They 
were concerned about the gains that the investment had returned.
Sanlam investigated the complaint and replied on 24 September 2019. Sanlam said that 
Company A had ceased trading in July 2013, and they had assumed responsibility for the 
portfolios previously administered by Company A.
Sanlam said that they took on the portfolios without any liabilities for the advice provided by 
Company A.
Sanlam said that they didnt think that they had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with Sanlams decision, Mr R and Mrs R referred the complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator said that he couldnt 
investigate the advice originally provided by Company A as they were no longer trading.
The investigator didnt think that Sanlam had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint. Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr R and Mrs R have asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and Mrs R but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and I wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr R and Mrs R feel strongly 
about the complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
The complaint is about the suitability of the advice that the late Mrs J received and the 
actions of Sanlam after they acquired the business from Company A. I will deal with each of 
these in turn.
Suitability of advice from Company A
Company A ceased trading in July 2013 and Sanlam have said that although they acquired 
the business, they did not assume any liability for the advice provided by Company A.
As Company A is no longer trading and the complaint has been brought against Sanlam, I 
am unable to look at the initial advice that was provided to the late Mrs J in 2009.
I understand the frustration that Mr R and Mrs R will feel that the initial advice will not be 
investigated but the service can only look at complaints brought against a business that is 
still trading. I note that the investigator has provided Mr R and Mrs R with details of the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and has made a referral on their behalf.
Sanlam have also said that when they acquired Company A, they did not take on the 
liabilities of Company A which means that the original advice provided by Company A is not 
their responsibility.
Again, I sympathise with Mr R and Mrs R that Sanlam will not take any responsibility for the 
advice provided by Company A, but I need to respect the commercial agreement when they 
acquired the business.
Actions of Sanlam following acquisition of Company A
Although I cant look at the initial advice that was provided by Company A, I will look at what 
Sanlam did when they acquired responsibility of the portfolio.
From reading the documentation available to me, I think Company A provided the late Mrs J 
with a one-off recommendation that resulted in Mrs J investing into a Capital and Income 
Bond. This looks to have been an advised sale.
When Sanlam took over responsibility from Company A, this would appear to be for the 
administration of the Bond. I cant see that there was any discretionary or advisory 
relationship, and this means that they did not have responsibility for the ongoing suitability of 
advice. This would probably explain why they didnt assume any liability for the advice 
originally provided by Company A.
When a business takes over another firm, I would expect them to contact the customers of 
that firm. I asked Sanlam what contact they had with Mrs J and they said:
Our records indicate that review invitations were sent to client. Unfortunately, we did not 
receive any response from client. So, it was cancelled and rearranged a couple of times.
I can see from the file that Sanlam sent a letter to Mrs J on 26 July 2018 offering the 
opportunity of a review of her plans along with any other financial planning requirements she 
may have. Her valuation summary was also sent at this time. 
Although there is only one letter on the file showing contact with Mrs J, Sanlam say that 
invitations were sent to Mrs J. Im unable to comment further but accept that on the balance 
of probability, other invitations were likely sent to Mrs J.
I also asked Sanlam what other checks and balances were carried out on Mrs Js portfolio. 
Sanlam replied saying:
They had discussed moving the investment in-house but due to the surrender penalties 
at the time, it was not transacted. 
They said that by the time the penalties had expired, Mrs J was quite a few years older 
and not in as good health and moving the fund would have incurred a costThey decided that the portfolio would not have recovered from this and it was decided by 
the client to leave it invested where it was 
Although Sanlam have not provided any documentation to support these statements, they 
did look at the suitability of the investment and what the best outcome would be for Mrs J. I 
have no reason to doubt the statements provided by Sanlam.
In their submission to the service, Mr R and Mrs R have asked questions about why the fund 
was losing money and not growing in line with inflation. They have also asked what Sanlam 
did to explain what other options were available to Mrs J.
As I have previously said, Im unable to look at the initial advice that was provided to Mrs J. 
As Mrs J did not respond to invitations for a financial review, Sanlam were unable to discuss 
what other options may have been available but there is evidence to suggest that some 
discussions were held with Mrs R deciding to leave it invested where it was.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R 
and the estate of Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman