DRN-3663668
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss R opened a credit card account with Barclays in December 2016. Her account limit was
set at £13,400.
Miss R says she couldnt keep up with the payments. Miss R says she was completely 
reliant on benefits. She says that she doesnt think Barclays did proper checks and if it had it 
would have known the credit was unaffordable for her.
Barclays said it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss R and it didnt see
anything which might make it think she couldnt afford the credit.
Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Miss R disagreed, so the
complaint was passed to me to make a decision. In my provisional decision of 19 July 2022 I 
came to a different conclusion and upheld Miss Rs complaint. 
Barclays accepted my decision and agreed to pay the compensation I considered was fair. 
Miss R disagreed with the redress offered, so rather than resolve this matter informally I 
have made a final decision which is explained below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Rs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. I think that there
were clear indications that the lending would be unaffordable for Miss R at the point she took
out the credit card.
Barclays need to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate check to make sure Miss R
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Miss Rs income and expenditure.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclays should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss R. These factors might include:
Miss Rs income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayments to
a given credit amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Miss R had been indebted,
reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Barclays says that there were no signs that Miss R might have had difficulty meeting her
repayments on the checks it did. It says Miss R declared a self-employed income of 
£25,000. Barclays says it validated this information by sending it to a credit reference agency 
which compared it to previous credit applications made by Miss R and other information 
about the turnover in her current account. This provided validation of a net monthly income 
of £1,680.60. Barclays says it then used modelling to understand what her expenditure might 
have been and a further credit reference agency check. It says there was no adverse 
information and that it took her other lending commitments into account, too.
Barclays says that it assessed Miss Rs monthly disposable income as about £560, which
meant it was content that she had enough money left over each month to meet her
repayments.
Our adjudicator thought that because Miss R only needed to pay 2.25% each month that the
repayments would have been manageable.
I disagreed. Miss Rs initial credit limit was high at £13,400. In Miss Rs case it amounted to 
nearly six months gross income, or eight months net income. If Miss R had used all the 
credit and used her entire assessed disposable income each month to pay it off it would 
have taken two years to do so. If Miss R had used her entire credit limit and paid it off at the 
minimum repayment rate it would have taken her nearly 20 years to do so at an interest rate 
of 0%. At the rate shown on her credit card statements it would have taken nearer 40 years 
to pay off.
In addition, Barclays explained that Miss R used her new credit card to transfer outstanding
debt of over £7,000 from two other credit cards. Barclays says this would have left her debt
free elsewhere. While it may have cost her less in interest on the Barclays card it left her
with the ability to borrow again from those lenders with whom she had cleared her balance.
There is no evidence to suggest that her other two credit cards were cancelled. So in
addition to the £13,400 they agreed to lend to Miss R she also had at least £7,000 of credit
available elsewhere.
I think the lending to Miss R was not sustainable for her and while it seems Barclays made
proportionate checks of Miss Rs circumstances at the time it did not use the information it 
held to make a fair lending decision. So, I think Miss R lost out as a result of what Barclays
did wrong.
Putting things right
I dont think Barclays should have lent to Miss R at all, so I dont think its fair for it to charge 
any interest or charges on any balance. However, Miss R has had the benefit of the money
she spent on the account so I think she should pay this back.
Miss R disagrees with this approach because she says she wouldnt have been able to 
spend the money if it hadnt been lent to her in the first place. Miss R says that even with interest and charges removed she will not be able to afford to pay back the amount she 
owes.
I am sympathetic to Miss Rs position, but I cannot ignore the fact that Miss R has had the 
benefit of the goods and services she bought using the credit card  and may continue to do 
so depending on the purchases. The redress I have directed reflects what I think is a fair 
outcome for both parties. Barclays have accepted the proposed compensation and will 
engage with Miss R about a repayment plan for any outstanding debt. If Miss R is not 
content with that repayment plan she can make a separate complaint about that. Miss R also 
has the option to reject my decision and pursue court action instead.
Therefore, Barclays should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges.
If the rework results in a credit balance this should be refunded to Miss R along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement. Barclays should also remove all adverse information recorded in
relation to the account from Miss Rs credit file.
If, after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance on the card Barclays should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss R for the remaining amount. Once
Miss R has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after
she opened the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss R a
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, to 
pay compensation as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman