DRN-1146775
 
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way esure Insurance Limited has settled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S accepts she clipped a third partys vehicle and damaged its wing mirror. She is 
unhappy with the way esure has settled the third partys claim as she considers its 
fraudulent as it includes claiming for a paint scratch she didnt cause. Mrs S says she only 
wants to be held responsible for the damage she actually caused. She is unhappy esure 
settled the third partys claim in full and for all the damage the third party claimed for. 
Esure said in its final response that Mrs S has confirmed the incident took place and it has 
no concerns with the damage claimed or the claim being settled. It has also paid Mrs S £100 
for not contacting her when the complaint was first raised.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said Mrs S said the 
accident took place and its a legitimate claim by the third party. Esure appointed an 
engineer and the images of the damage to the third partys car appear consistent with what 
allegedly happened. Esure was entitled under the terms of the policy to defend or settle any 
claim. It hasnt acted in error by settling the claim as it has done. He will not be asking esure 
to do anything more.
Mrs S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has strong views about what damage was caused in the accident. But its not our role 
to decide exactly what happened. That is something only a court can consider. We can only 
look into whether esure has conducted a reasonable investigation into a claim, when making 
its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy esure is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit and 
doesnt need Mrs S approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. 
On balance I think esure has investigated matters reasonably. It considered the vehicles 
damage, what each party said and obtained an expert view from an engineer. And it decided 
to settle the other partys claim in full.
Mrs S may disagree with esures interpretation of the evidence and decision to settle the 
claim. But I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised its discretion 
unfairly or unreasonably when deciding to settle the claim as its done. The amount that esure has paid to the third party also will not affect how this claim is 
recorded on Mrs S record. 
I understand Mrs S frustration. But taking everything into account I dont think esure has 
done anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do anything 
more or differently. Overall I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome 
in this case.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman