The complaint
Mr D has complained about One Quote Direct Insurance Services Limited. He isnt happy 
with the online journey when he bought his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D took out car insurance online through One Quote, but when he went to pay for the 
policy the cost went up. Mr D said this was because of technical difficulties.
One Quote said that they didnt have any technical difficulties when Mr D applied. It 
explained that the premium can go up as an insurer can change their prices. And it outlined 
that all the risk information provided by Mr D wasnt always identical. So it thought that this 
explained why Mr Ds premium had increased while he applied online. As Mr D remained 
unhappy and thought that he should pay less for his policy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He was of the 
view that there wasnt any evidence that there were technical difficulties or that One Quote 
had done anything wrong. And pointed out that Mr D didnt have to go ahead with the policy 
if he wasnt happy with the final price quoted.
As Mr D didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration as he thought he would get his insurance for less. And 
the price went up while he was trying to get his car insurance for £261. But I agree with the 
investigator that Mr D was free to take his business elsewhere if he didnt agree with the 
price quoted, and he clearly knew the total amount due when he finalised payment.
Indeed, Mr D couldve taken his business elsewhere in the cooling-off period if he wasnt 
happy with the final price. And I note that One Quote reduced the cost of the policy to £318 
after he had taken the policy out which feels fair.
So, although I can understand Mr Ds frustration here, as he feels hes been left paying a 
higher price for a policy due to technical issues on a website. And he says he was told the 
price increased due to the number of quotes he obtained. But any slight change in detail can 
affect price and not all the information provided by Mr D was the same for each quote. I 
know Mr D feels that the online process is set up to entice people in with low quotes, but I 
DRN-1494621havent seen any evidence of this or any evidence of technical issues at the time. Although I 
accept that people often have difficulties and problems when applying online for various 
products and it is possible that this happened to Mr D here.
However, based on the information available, and the that fact that Mr D couldve chosen to 
take his business elsewhere if he wasnt happy (at the time of application or during the 
cooling off period), Im not asking One Quote to refund any of Mr Ds premium.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman