DRN-3937821
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision not to pay his claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional thoughts, so rather than
repeat everything in detail here, Ill summarise the key events.
Mr F sadly lost his wife and mother of his children in May 2018 to cancer. He'd been her 
carer for 18 months prior to that and this understandably had taken a toll on Mr F's 
physical and mental wellbeing. So much so, that in January 2019, some nine months 
after his wife's passing, he visited his GP for support. His diet was addressed, alongside 
his grief reaction. Mr F began a course of anti-depressants, Sertraline, and was referred 
for counselling. He described feeling exhausted, low mood, but supported by his family. 
Mr F had to assume a sole parental role for his twin girls, who, at the time were aged 
three.
For the year that followed, Mr F continued to struggle with his symptoms, but this was 
simply recorded on his medical record as bereavement reaction, despite changing his 
anti- depressant medication and his continuing symptoms worsening. His treatment path 
with
anti-depressants was as follows;
January 2019 - Sertraline
March 2019 - Citalopram
March 2020 - after period of stability, surviving not thriving, medication stopped
May 2020 - mood dropped again and so Citalopram restarted as had previously 
been of benefit.
August 2020 - no improvement on mood and Mr F feeling exhausted, 
changed to Escitalopram.
October 2020 - Mr F began Mirtazapine as he was having difficulty sleeping 
and mood wasn't elevating.
January 2021 - GP referred to MH team but they were unable to offer 
appointment at that time. Mr F was on high dose of Mirtazapine and this still 
wasn't lifting his mood
April 2021 - Mr F's mood continued to deteriorate and so increased to highest 
dose of Mirtazapine and referred to occupational heath. Recommendation for 
specialist support made. Mr F was struggling to look after his children at this 
point because of the trauma he'd experienced compounded with his MH 
condition. Money worries were also a factor.
May 2021 - mood suffered again and Mr F was very concerned about 
financial problems. Was having to rely on family.
December 2021 - psychiatrist prescribed Venlafaxine to be taken alongside the
Mirtazapine to try and stabilise Mr F's mood.
July 2022 - this was switched to Vortioxetine owing to blood pressure issues.
Unum declined Mr Fs claim because it said he wasnt suffering with a medical condition, 
rather, that he was experiencing a bereavement reaction. It said this because Mr Fs 
treating GP recorded this on his medical records.
Our investigator agreed with Unum for the same reasons. Whilst I understood why both 
our investigator and Unum reached those conclusions, I disagreed, explaining I thought 
there was enough medical evidence to support the presence of a significant mental health 
condition, because it was consistent with the medical history Id carefully considered. And 
so, I asked Unum to reconsider Mr Fs claim in line with the remaining terms as I was 
satisfied Mr F suffered with depression, anxiety and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) from 
January 2019.
Unum responded to my provisional findings and agreed with my recommendation. It said 
itll reassess Mr Fs claim from January 2019, however, the policy must remain in place 
and the policy holder supports Unum looking at the claim. And so, its now for me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having d e reasons explained in my provisional findings.
Having carefully thought about the particular circumstances surrounding Mr Fs claim, I'm 
more persuaded that Mr F has been suffering with a mental health condition since January 
2019. I say that not only because of the extensive medical history which I think supports 
this, but also, having considered this alongside the testimonies of those responsible for his 
care. 
I accept Mr F's medical record says he was suffering with bereavement reaction, but I'm 
less persuaded that the case given he'd managed to cope for some nine months after 
losing his wife before being prescribed medication. This is further supported by Mr F's GP 
who said it reasonable to suggest that Mr F had been experiencing bereavement reaction 
during those nine months and this was clearly a progression of that into a mental health 
condition. I find that persuasive because the symptoms of grief are notably similar to those 
of depression - which is a medical condition.
Mr F's GP explained that his depression was complex and difficult to diagnose and I think 
the medical history is consistent with that description. I think it's clear that Mr F's had a lot 
to deal with and has tried to combat his symptoms of exhaustion, low mood, worry and 
sadness with therapies and medication. Unfortunately for Mr F, I don't think he's always 
received the best level of care, particularly as he's not been able to access psychotherapy 
care.
But given this was all happening at a time where the COVID-19 pandemic was in full swing, I 
recognise access to support through therapy was severely compromised and so I don't think 
Unum should use that as an excuse to not look beyond the label of bereavement reaction. I 
think, given the description of Mr F's symptoms in his own testimony, as well as his GP's 
retrospective comments, the occupational health specialist and the psychiatrist, I'm 
persuaded there's a medical condition here which would qualify for further consideration by 
Unum. It's not in dispute that Mr F suffered complications processing his bereavement, but 
I'm satisfied this progressed into a medical condition because of his depression and overall 
poor mental health, fatigue and exhaustion from January 2019.As Unum agreed with my outcome, Mr F must now decide whether to accept my final
decision so that Unum can begin its reassessment of his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that Unum Limited must now reconsider Mr Fs claim from January 2019
in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman