DRN-3135930
The complaint
 Mr B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) applied overdraft 
charges to his account which contributed to his financial difficulties and made it impossible 
for him to repay his overdraft.
What happened
 Mr B first contacted Halifax about the charges being applied to his account in 2015, when 
he told it he was experiencing financial difficulties and needed some help. Halifax agreed to
place a control on his account so that he wouldnt be charged for 6 months, to give him time
to seek some advice about dealing with his financial situation. Charges began to be applied 
again once the control expired. In 2020 Mr B then complained to Halifax about the charges
that had been applied, he said that they had contributed to his financial difficulties over the
years and were making his overdraft more difficult to repay. Halifax didnt uphold the
complaint. And as Mr B was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Halifax ought
to have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty by June 2017 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Halifax
disagreed, it felt that it had done enough to help in 2015 and that there had been no signs of
financial difficulty on Mr Bs account as he was not using it for his day to day income and
expenditure. Because Halifax didnt agree with the adjudicators findings the case was
passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 29 September 2021. I set out why I felt that 
Halifax should refund fees and charges from June 2016. Halifax agreed to pay Mr B the 
redress as set out in my decision. Mr B had no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Halifax acted
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed
Mr Bs overdraft in June 2016.
Halifax did suspend fees for six months when Mr B told it of his financial difficulties in
February 2015, and advised him to contact a debt management charity, Mr B was also given
the option of his account being referred to Halifaxs collections team but declined this as he
was concerned about the impact on his credit file. I think that this was an appropriate
temporary measure and so Im satisfied that Halifax did act fairly and reasonably when Mr B
initially got in contact to say he was struggling.
But Ive also considered the conduct of Mr Bs account after this temporary measure expired.
Ive done this because even though Mr B might have refused longer-term assistance, I dont
think it would have been fair and reasonable for Halifax not to have imposed a longer-term
solution on Mr Bs overdraft had his account conduct indicated continued financial difficulty.
In this case, the fee-free period on Mr Bs account came to an end in August 2015, and I
think a cursory look at Mr Bs statements when Halifax next renewed his overdraft limit in
June 2016 would have shown that Mr B had made no progress in reducing his overdraft limit
in the time since hed first contacted Halifax about his difficulties. By this time Mr B was
hardcore borrowing  he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period
of time (at least two years)  and was paying in just enough to cover the monthly charges on
his account. Halifaxs own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure or as a long-term loan. So I think that
Mr Bs overdraft usage should have prompted Halifax to have realised that he wasnt using
his overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms.
I acknowledge that Mr B did go on to temporarily clear his overdraft a few years later, but I
dont think that has any bearing on the fact that Halifax should have taken steps to deal with
the clear issues in how Mr Bs account was being managed in 2015. Especially as Mr B
would have paid significant amounts of interest, fees and charges for the privilege of being
allowed to defer dealing with his problem debt. I also note what Halifax has said about Mr B
not using this account as his main bank account, and that because of this it would be difficult
for Halifax to identify if he was in financial difficulty. But Halifax was on notice that Mr B had
previously been struggling financially, and there had been no improvement at all in the way
his account had been operating since that identified period of financial difficulty. So I cant
see how it was fair and reasonable for Halifax to simply assume that there was nothing to be
concerned about when it renewed the overdraft facility in 2016 when the evidence that was
available at the time suggested that things had not got any better for Mr B.
As Halifax didnt react to Mr Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. Mr B ended up paying additional interest,
fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended up exacerbating difficulties he already had
in trying to clear it. So I think that Halifax didnt treat Mr B fairly and that he lost out because
of what Halifax did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Halifax has said they do not fully agree with my findings but are willing to accept my decision 
nonetheless, and as Mr B has not added anything further, I also have nothing to add to what 
I have already said.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
-Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it after the renewal in June 2016 are removed.
AND
-If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have been 
made Halifax should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective 
action on the overdraft in June 2016.
OR
-If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all 
adjustments have been made, then Halifax should remove any adverse information from 
Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and Halifax should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman