DRN-1476701
 
The complaint
Miss S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was added to 
Miss Ss account when she applied for a Barclaycard during a meeting at the bank.
Miss S mainly says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge and she didnt 
know she had this insurance in place. She also told us that she had other ways she couldve 
paid her Barclaycard monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
I think Barclays made Miss S aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. She 
made it clear on the application form she signed that she wanted to include the PPI option. 
There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI and theres a tick in the Yes box to show she 
wanted to have the cover. Miss S could've ticked the No box instead if she hadnt wanted 
PPI. And Miss S has signed and dated the completed application form to take out her 
Barclaycard with PPI. So I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me fairly to say that 
Miss S wasnt made aware that she was taking out the PPI. Its understandable that she 
mightve forgotten some details from so long ago. But I think Miss S would've seen that it 
was up to her to say whether or not she wanted PPI  and it was added to her account when 
she indicated that she wanted to take it out with her Barclaycard.  
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss S. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
It looks like the PPI was suitable for Miss S based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
when she applied for her Barclaycard. Heres why I say this.
Miss S was eligible for the cover. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it 
doesnt look as if those applied to Miss S when she took out her Barclaycard. The policy wouldve protected Miss Ss Barclaycard repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event that Miss S lost her job unexpectedly. 
And it wouldve also covered Miss S if she wasnt able to go to work because of accident or 
sickness. 
Ive taken into account that Miss Ss employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick pay. But 
the policy couldve paid out for longer - up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So 
the PPI provided better protection than she couldve relied on getting through her employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss S with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled.   
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Miss S if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
I cant be sure that Miss S wouldve been able to sell her car for enough money to pay her 
credit card bill. PPI provided a dependable alternative means of covering her credit card 
monthly repayments. 
Its possible some information Barclays gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know what was discussed or how much information Miss S wouldve 
known about the policy cost and benefits  its possible Barclays didnt explain this as well as 
it shouldve done. But Miss S chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  and it 
seems to have been affordable for her. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss S, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman