DRN-2910210
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way that Lloyds Bank PLC handled his request for support with his 
credit card account as a result of his financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr B called Lloyds on 11 December 2020 to discuss his credit card account with them. He 
told them he was experiencing financial difficulties and was seeking their support. 
Mr B explained hed spoken to a debt advice charity. Theyd suggested he write to Lloyds 
about his credit card account and include a budget planner hed prepared with them. Mr B 
wanted an address to send Lloyds this information. He said the charity had advised him to 
request a payment freeze and ask Lloyds to consider stopping any interest and charges.
Mr B said that during the call, Lloyds insisted that he complete their own budget planner with 
them. He said they refused to use the one he completed. This took 90 minutes and he found 
it very stressful. 
Having completed the budget, Mr B said that Lloyds wanted to close his account with them. 
He said he was very shocked as he only wanted to send them the letter and budget planner 
as suggested by the debt advice charity. Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds response. He told 
them that he was not in arrears, having made all his payments up to that point.
Mr B said that Lloyds then changed their mind and agreed to a payment suspension plan for 
three months covering the period 1 January 2021 until 1 April 2021. Lloyds said they would 
confirm this in writing. 
Mr B received a letter from Lloyds dated 11 December 2020. It said that theyd put a plan in 
place for your credit card. But the letter also said that the plan would end on 11 March 2021. 
He didnt think that this was what had been agreed. 
So, Mr B wrote a letter of complaint to Lloyds about his experience. He also had concerns 
about another matter. He thought that Lloyds should write off the balance that he owed them 
because of their actions.
Lloyds replied to Mr B by letter dated 8 January 2021. They agreed that their letter relating to 
the plan on his credit card account had wrongly detailed the plan expiry as 11 March 2020. 
They said that this shouldve said 1 April 2020. They agreed to pay £50 for the upset and 
trouble caused. Lloyds also said that other matters complained about would be investigated 
separately by their banking team.
Mr B wasnt happy with Lloyds reply, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. He thought that the amount 
offered by Lloyds was reasonable.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, he asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to clarify that in reviewing Mr Bs complaint, I have focussed upon the aspects relating 
specifically to his credit card account, and Mr Bs request to Lloyds to provide support while 
he experienced financial difficulties. Any other matters are the subject of a separate 
complaint. 
Prior to calling Lloyds on 11 December 2020, I believe that Mr B had previously been in 
contact with them in relation to the amount he owed on his credit card account. Ive seen 
letters from Lloyds dated 28 October 2020 and 28 November 2020 which confirm, on each 
occasion, that Lloyds had put a 30 day hold on Mr Bs credit card.
Ive also listened to a recording of the call between Mr B and Lloyds on 11 December 2020. 
Mr B explained that hed spoken to a debt advice charity, this having previously been 
suggested by Lloyds. I believe that Mr B did the right thing to seek help and support from an 
independent advisor in the circumstances here.
Mr B explained his financial circumstances to Lloyds and told them hed completed a budget 
planner with the help of the debt advice charity. He said hed been advised to write to them 
asking for a payment suspension. Rather than provide Mr B with a postal or email address to 
write to, Lloyds suggested completing their budget planner over the phone. Mr B didnt 
object, although he has since said that this frustrated him as hed already done this with the 
debt advice charity. 
I can completely understand Mr Bs frustration. Particularly as this can be a lengthy process. 
But, having listened to the call, my overriding impression was that Lloyds were trying to 
provide immediate support to Mr B at the time  particularly given his financial situation at 
that point. I think its also relevant to say that the debt advice charity and Lloyds may both 
look at a budget planner from slightly different perspectives. For example, Lloyds wanted to 
include any contractual payments due in respect of any other debts that Mr B might have. 
The debt charity hadnt included this. Lloyds did explain this to Mr B during the call.
Mr B also suggested that he felt bullied during the call. Having listened, I think that Lloyds 
were trying to be supportive and to understand Mr Bs circumstances, both financially and 
personally. I believe they tried to demonstrate understanding and empathy. So unfortunately, 
while Mr B may feel this way, I havent heard anything to suggest that Lloyds acted as Mr B 
suggests.
Mr B said that Lloyds then wanted to close his account. During the conversation, Lloyds 
asked Mr B about how he felt his financial circumstances might change over the next three 
months. Mr B said that he couldnt see any change, although he was applying for jobs. 
Lloyds explained that given that Mr B didnt expect his situation to improve, their only option 
would be to close his account and pass the management on to their debt recovery 
department. This isnt unusual in these circumstances. While a bank should try to be 
supportive during periods of financial difficulty, they would normally only provide support for 
a limited period until Mr Bs circumstances improved. But Mr B had suggested that he 
couldnt see his circumstances improving soon.
Although Mr B had no intention of using his credit card again, he was reluctant for the 
account to be closed. So, Lloyds suggested that they record that his circumstances might 
improve, should he secure work. That way, they could agree a plan with him. I believe that 
despite what Mr B had told them, Lloyds were trying to be as helpful and flexible as possible 
here. Lloyds agreed a payment suspension and said theyd stop all charges and interest for three 
months. They told Mr B that this plan would end on 1 April 2021. They suggested he should 
contact them near to that time to provide an update. 
Ive seen the letter that Lloyds sent to Mr B following their telephone conversation. It says 
that the plan will expire in 11 March 2021. This doesnt agree with what was said in the call. 
Lloyds have agreed they got this wrong. Theyve apologised to Mr B and offered £50 to 
reflect any upset and trouble caused. I believe this is fair in these circumstances. Ultimately, 
Mr B wasnt impacted financially, and Lloyds corrected their records to reflect what hed 
been told during the call on 11 December 2020.
So, from the evidence Ive seen and heard, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds have acted 
unfairly here. I believe that they were trying to be supportive to Mr B. The mistake regarding 
the plan dates is an unfortunate one. But I believe Lloyds have addressed this fairly. I do 
realise that Mr B will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Lloyds to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman