DRN-3729465
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he received in 1999 to take out a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan. The advice was provided by Medical 
Sickness Society Financial Consultants, which is now known as Wesleyan Assurance 
Society.
Mr B is being represented in his complaint by a third party. 
What happened
Mr B met with an adviser from Wesleyan in 1999. There is no paperwork available from the 
time of the sale but its known that Mr B was almost 30 years old, employed and was a 
member of the NHS Pension Scheme having joined when his employment started in 1992. 
Following the meeting, Mr B set up two FSVAC plans. One with a regular monthly 
contribution and another plan with a single contribution. Both plans had a retirement age of 
55. These policies were made paid up and were subsequently transferred away from 
Wesleyan in 2012.
Mr B met with Wesleyan again in 2009. The fact find and suitability letter completed at this 
time recorded that in 2008 Mr B had purchased 33 months added years in the NHS Pension 
Scheme. The adviser also recommended that Mr B purchase additional pension in the NHS 
Scheme and that he commenced additional contributions to his personal pension.
The adviser also noted that two of Mr Bs existing plans had a retirement age of 55 so he 
recommended that these be changed to 60 to fall in line with Mr Bs anticipated retirement 
age.   
In 2020, Mr B complained to Wesleyan about the sale of his FSAVC plans. Wesleyan 
reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said that as the sales paperwork 
from the time of the sale wasnt available it couldnt be sure Mr B was made aware of the in-
house options he had for topping up his pension provision. But Wesleyan said it was 
satisfied that Mr B had been made aware of these in 2009. So it thought the complaint had 
been made too late under the rules that apply. 
Mr B didnt agree with Wesleyan so he asked our service to look into matters.
Another ombudsman here decided that the complaint was one we could consider because 
he thought the complaint had been made in time. So one of our investigators went on to 
review the merits of the complaint. 
As there was no paperwork from the time of sale, the investigator couldnt be satisfied that 
Wesleyan made Mr B aware of alternatives provided by his occupational scheme. So she 
went on to consider whether this would have made a difference. The investigator concluded 
that it would have made a difference; she thought Mr B would most likely have joined the in-
house additional voluntary contribution (AVC) arrangement. 
Mr Bs representative didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary it said that 
Wesleyans lack of sales paperwork is a red flag for a serious compliance breach and the 
fact that it attempted to time-bar the complaint adds further weight to the compliance records 
not being as they should be. 
The initial level of premium was more than enough to have adequately funded added years 
and had Mr B been told about the guaranteed and no risk nature of this option, theres no 
doubt that this would have been his choice, as opposed to the higher charging, riskier option 
of the FSAVC. 
The paperwork for the subsequent review again makes no mention of an in-house AVC. So 
his representative thinks Wesleyan fundamentally failed in its duty of care. Although the 
retirement age was initially set at 55, Mr B has said that if hed been told about added years 
from outset, the retirement age would not have been a factor in his choices; this is further 
evidenced by the fact that the retirement age was later increased to age 60. And he says 
that he would have prioritised funding the contributions to the level needed to obtain the 
maximum of very lucrative benefits that could have been harvested.
The complaint was passed to me to decide and having reviewed it I agreed with the 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld. But I thought, if hed been given adequate 
information during the sale, Mr B would most likely have opted to purchase added years in 
the NHS Pension Scheme.
 
I informed both parties that I was minded to uphold the complaint on this basis. Neither party 
had anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint, Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Due to the lack of sales paperwork available from 1999, its not possible to know what was 
discussed when Mr B met with the adviser from Wesleyan. So I dont know what, if anything, 
he was told about the in-house options he had for topping up his pension. 
I know Mr Bs representative thinks the lack of documentation is a red flag and likely 
indicates a compliance breach. I dont think that is necessarily the case. The sale of the 
FSAVCs took place more than 20 years ago and the plans were transferred to another 
provider in 2012. And there was also a merger between Medical Sickness and Wesleyan. Its 
not uncommon in situations such as this for the initial sales papers not to be available. 
In terms of how this now impacts Mr Bs case, it means that I have to assume the sale 
wasnt compliant and that Mr B wasnt provided with sufficient information to make an 
informed decision. So Ive considered whether Mr B would have done anything differently, if 
hed been fully informed of all his options.  
Having thought carefully about this, Im upholding the complaint. I think on balance its more 
likely than not that Mr B would have bought added years. Ill explain why. A lot of the information isnt available that we usually take into consideration when trying to 
determine what someone would have done if the sale had been compliant. So Im basing my 
decision on what we do know. 
The adviser was tied to Wesleyan which meant that they wouldnt necessarily have been 
expected to offer an opinion on whether Mr B should buy added years. The adviser was 
required to provide Mr B with information on his options and then it was really for Mr B to 
have gone away to make his own enquiries and then his own decision. 
At the time of the sale, Mr B was almost 30 years old, employed and was a member of the 
NHS Pension Scheme having joined when his employment started in 1992. 
It appears that following a meeting with a Wesleyan adviser, Mr B set up two FSAVC plans, 
one with a regular monthly contribution and another plan with a single contribution. At least 
one of these plans had a retirement age of 55. These policies were made paid up and were 
subsequently transferred away from Wesleyan in 2012.
Mr B says he contributed £270 per month to the regular premium plan. In order to verify this, 
our investigator requested the contribution history for the plan but Wesleyan failed to provide 
this. I dont know Mr Bs salary in 1999 when he took the plans out. However, the fact find 
completed in 2009 recorded his superannuable income at that time as £58,281.
I think its very likely that he was earning less than this at the time of the sales in 1999. But 
even based on the 2009 salary, added years would have been more than affordable to him, 
based on the £270 monthly contribution Mr B says he made to his plans.
In 2008 Mr B did in fact start a contract to buy 33 months added years. Given the date he 
joined his employers pension scheme and his scheme retirement age of 60, I think its most 
likely this that was the maximum he was able to buy to take him up to full service.
One factor that can sometimes suggest added years may not have been the preferred 
choice, is when a consumer wishes to retire early. It does appear that Mr Bs plans initially 
had a retirement age of 55. But when he met with Wesleyan again in 2009, the paperwork 
from this time suggests that the retirement age on his existing plans was incorrect. So the 
adviser arranged for this to be updated to coincide with his 60th birthday. 
In the absence of any other evidence, this suggests to me that Mr B didnt have a fixed plan 
to retire early. Given this, and the fact that added years were clearly affordable and Mr Bs 
field of employment  recorded in 2009 as dentist - some of the usual arguments as to why 
an AVC or FSAVC plan might have been suitable dont seem to be relevant. Mr Bs job 
meant that it was likely he would remain with the same employer for most, if not all, of his 
career. 
And given the lack of sales paperwork, I dont know what Mr Bs attitude to risk was. He says 
he wouldnt have wanted to take to a risk with his retirement provisions. And as Ive said 
above, its evident that added years were more than affordable and he did go on to buy them 
several years later. So based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that not that Mr B 
would have bought added years in 1999 instead of taking the FSAVCs if hed been given 
information about them. 
Mr B hasnt lost out on the opportunity to buy added years and if he remains a member of his 
employers scheme until retirement, he will most likely receive the maximum pension. 
However, its likely these added years would have cost slightly more in 2008 than if hed 
started the contract in 1999. So I think Wesleyan needs to run a calculation to determine 
how much extra Mr B has paid as a result of deferring the purchase of added years. Putting things right
Wesleyan should run a calculation to determine how much extra Mr B will pay for the 33 
months added years as a result of deferring the purchase of these from 1999 until 2008. 
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Wesleyan Assurance Society 
to calculate redress as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman