DRN-3948433
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined a payment she made 
online.
What happened
In early August 2022 Miss N made a few payments online with the same retailer. All but one 
payment went through, a reoccurring payment for £6.60 she had set up. When she called 
NatWest she was told it was an error at the retailers end but the retailer told her the issue 
was because NatWest had declined it.
As she was unable to complete the transaction, Miss N has said she had to go into town, 
arrange childcare for her children, to purchase the item and it cost her more than if shed 
purchased it online. She complained to NatWest about this and that she had spent 
considerable time trying to get through to them.
In their final response NatWest explained there are known ongoing issues with the retailer, 
and they are in contact with them directly about it. They also apologised for the time Miss N 
had spent on the phone and offered £30 for the inconvenience it caused.
Miss N referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think NatWest needed to 
take any further action as she was satisfied the error was a known issue with the retailer. 
She also felt £30 fairly compensated Miss N for the distress and inconvenience.
As Miss N remained unhappy its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ns strength of feeling in relation to this complaint. Whilst I have 
considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on all of it. Ive 
only addressed the issues I consider to be the key points of the complaint. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service. 
NatWest have provided information which supports a known issue with the retailer which 
appears to be related to certain transactions where the card details are stored. I can see the 
transaction in question was as a result of that known issue and am satisfied NatWest didnt 
block the payment.
I understand Miss N was inconvenienced in having to go and purchase the item elsewhere 
but as the error wasnt something NatWest had control over, I cant fairly ask them to 
compensate for this.
Miss N has also raised concerns with the service NatWest provided. I can see in their final 
response they offered £30 for the inconvenience caused when Miss N waited on the phone 
line for a prolonged period of time. Ive considered this along with Miss Ns testimony about 
how she had been treated on telephone calls with NatWests advisers as the telephone call 
recording wasnt available.
It isnt usual practice for businesses to continue to discuss a complaint after a final response 
has been given, as they have provided referral rights to this service. So it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to refer her here. Miss N didnt have to continue to discuss her 
concerns with NatWest as she was aware of the next steps as this had been explained to 
her. 
Whilst I can understand why Miss N was upset by comments made, I think it likely they were 
trying to reassure her that it was a known issue and highlight why they felt £30 was fair. I 
appreciate she spent considerable time on the calls, but other communication options 
couldve been explored to reduce the impact on Miss N. 
I havent seen any specific financial loss related to the lengthy call. And it wasnt 
unreasonable for NatWest to suggest Miss N accepts the compensation as this wouldnt 
affect her ability to refer her complaint to this service. So I think the £30 NatWest offered 
along with the apology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Overall, NatWest werent responsible for the blocked payment, and I think the £30 offered 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience they caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Miss N £30.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman