DRN-3568628
The complaint
Ms M complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on her 
home emergency policy. 
Any reference to British Gas in my decision includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms M and British Gas. I wont repeat 
in detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Ms M had a British Gas HomeCare four policy. This policy provided cover for boiler, 
controls and central heating cover - including an annual service, plus repair to plumbing, 
drains and home electrics. 
In October 2021 Ms M had a leak at her property. She contacted British Gas who sent an 
engineer to investigate. The engineer found that the leak was ultimately caused by a shower 
pump and this wasnt covered by her policy. The engineer offered to isolate the pump to stop 
the leak. Ms M declined this offer and a number of further call outs took place. 
Ms M was unhappy that British Gas didnt fix the problem and further damage to her property 
she says happened as a result. She raised a complaint about this, but British Gas didnt 
uphold the complaint and Ms M referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld and as Ms M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
In her complaint referral to our Service, Ms M made a number of points about the general 
service provided by British Gas. Ive not seen evidence that Ms M raised all of these points 
with British Gas and noted that the final response letter doesnt refer to all of these points. 
But for completeness, and because they fall under the broad category of the service 
provided when dealing with the claim - Ive addressed them in this decision. 
My main consideration when reaching my decision is whether British Gas have fairly 
considered the claim  in line with the policy terms. As outlined above, Ill also be 
considering how British Gas have treated Ms M overall.
The declined claim
British Gas explained to Ms M in their final response letter that the issues with the leak  
werent covered by this policy as the cause of the leak was a shower pump. The relevant 
term relied upon is listed under the policy exclusions:
Showers and their parts, shower pumps..
Any parts that are designed to boost your mains water pressure
Therefore, British Gas fairly declined to cover the claim. It follows that any damage that 
occurred as a result of the leak wasnt covered under the policy. 
Even if the policy were to cover the shower pump, there was an additional policy exclusion 
for faults existing arising out of installation. The evidence suggests that a separate visit took 
place by the pumps manufacturer, who advised that it had been incorrectly fitted and there 
was also an undersized cold water tank. 
In their final response letter, British Gas explained that as the remedial work required wasnt 
covered under this policy it would be chargeable - but Ms M wasnt obliged to use British 
Gas engineers to carry out the work. From the engineers notes, an offer was made to 
isolate the pump to prevent further damage to Ms Ms property but it seems Ms M declined 
this. That was her own choice to make, but I still consider it a positive offer by British Gas.
Ive noted that although Ms M has made reference to an issue of accidental damage for a 
damaged tap, I cant see that any visit has taken place regarding this issue or British Gas 
have considered this as part of her claim. I say this because a call note from 1 December 
2021 stated:
eng did not show up broken tap not working, and due the on going issues she has 
not got of blockage in the bathroom sink does no want any more engs out not happy 
with the service
Ms M should speak to British Gas if this issue is still outstanding  before our Service can 
consider it.
I find that British Gas have fairly declined to cover the claim - in line with the policy terms. 
The service provided
Ms M was also unhappy with the service provided by British Gas and wants compensation 
for an invasion of her privacy. Her complaint points include that engineers on behalf of 
British Gas took photos related to the claim without her permission and looked inside her 
property when there was no answer on 26 November 2021. Her testimony is:
On one occasion they have admitted that a engineer has peaked inside my home 
and seen movement I am totally threatened with this behaviour of intrusiveness from 
a stranger which I have taken very offensively and invading my privacy without 
consent. On the other hand is no surprise as the engineer have taken photos of my 
property without consent or a signature to confirm my authorisation to do so.
The notes from the engineer state:
26 November 2021 Attended property to no one answering door or phone. I saw 
movement about inside door but no one came to it.There is no reference to an engineer walking around the property looking or peeking in - as 
has been alleged. As our investigator has already pointed out, this could simply have been 
the engineer describing observing shadows or light distortion from outside the property whilst 
waiting for an answer to the door. 
Secondly, whilst Ive not seen any photos taken, its common practice that an engineer may 
take photo evidence of any call out for future reference  or simply to report back to British 
Gas that theyve been to visit. This is particularly important where disputes arise about a 
claim not being covered.
Ive seen no strong supporting evidence that British Gas - in the course of their engineers 
visits, have delivered a service that could be fairly described as poor or that invaded Ms Ms 
privacy. 
Summary 
On balance, Im satisfied that British Gas fairly delivered an appropriate level of service 
when dealing with this claim. Multiple site visits were arranged. Some took place and other 
visits couldnt go ahead as there was no answer at the Ms Ms property. Additionally, Ms M 
told British Gas she didnt want any more visits to her property. I cant hold British Gas 
responsible for that. Overall, Im satisfied that British Gas tried to help Ms M - within the 
constraints of the policy terms. 
I acknowledge that my decision will disappoint Ms M, but it brings to an end what our Service 
in trying to informally resolve her dispute with British Gas - can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman