DRN-4072561
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy. When I mention Aviva I also mean its suppliers and repairers.
What happened
Mr B had a motor insurance policy with Aviva.
In June 2022 Mr Bs car was hit by a third party and he made a claim. 
He had purchased a policy which meant he could only make a claim online which he did on 
4 July. In the online process, Aviva assessed the car as being beyond economical repair. 
In the meantime, Mr B had the car taken to a repairer, who Ill refer to as T, which assessed 
the repairs at £7,278.66 and reported this to Aviva in mid-July.
Aviva then recovered the car from T to one of its assessors to verify whether it would be 
written-off.
Mr B asked Aviva for an update on 28 July and during a webchat session he was told his car 
was written-off and the settlement figure would be £20,250. He provided his bank details to 
receive payment. Aviva says it didnt confirm this figure and it had explained to Mr B that an 
engineer needed to confirm the details.
Because hed been given a figure of £20,250, Mr B then agreed to buy a replacement car.
About nine days after the webchat, Mr B chased Aviva as he hadnt received payment. Aviva 
told Mr B his car could be repaired. Mr B was unhappy and wanted his car repaired by T. 
Aviva damaged the car getting it to T and it arranged to repair this damage.
There was a series of delays getting the repairs authorised which lasted about seven weeks 
more. 
Aviva said it upheld Mr Bs complaint about the seven-week delay and it telling him his car 
would be written-off. It also contacted him in error about providing him with a hire car. It said 
it would pay Mr B £500 compensation for its errors.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked that Aviva pay him the balance between the settlement 
figure he says it agreed with him and the value of the repaired car which he wants to sell.
He brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and upheld it. She 
thought Avivas offer of £500 was fair but she thought it should take Mr Bs car back and pay 
him the agreed settlement figure of £20,250, plus interest at 8%.
Aviva didnt agree. It said it hadnt confirmed the settlement figure to Mr B and had said it 
would need to be agreed by an engineer. It said Mr B had had his car repaired and the view 
meant he would also receive the value of a total loss payment. It said Mr B chose to buy the 
replacement car and he didnt tell Aviva that he didnt want repairs to happen. 
Avivas policy didnt allow for both of those payments to be made so it said the view wasnt 
fair. It asked that Mr Bs complaint is reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Ive read the evidence thats been provided to this service and I can see that Mr B hasnt 
been kept updated by Aviva throughout his claim. It seems to me that hes had to chase 
Aviva for progress regularly and I can see from his letters that hes very disappointed and 
frustrated by his claims experience.
At the end of this claims process hes been left with two similar vehicles and says he will 
need to sell the repaired one which he thinks would be worth around £17,000 against Avivas 
(disputed) offer of £20,250.
But Aviva also say its paid out for the repairs to his car, which is what its policy says it will 
do. It doesnt think its fair for it to make a payment for the total loss as well.
Ive considered various aspects of his claim separately and will list them here for ease of 
reading:
Settlement figure
Ive read through the webchat conversation between Aviva and Mr B. Mr B says Aviva told 
him that he was offered £20,250 but Aviva has said its webchat operator says the figure 
needs to be checked by an engineer.
Webchat is an interaction based on short textual messages. Because the messages are 
short, its important that all the parties involved in them take great care about exactly what is 
said. Ive removed parts of this webchat to shorten the conversation:
In Mr Bs case, hes previously been told his car will be written off. So he asks Aviva:
I would like to know whether my car is written off or not?
Aviva replies:
Upon checking your file I see your vehicle is deemed as write off. I see your vehicle is valued 
and settlement value of your vehicle is £20,250.00.
Mr B accepts:
That appears okay. when will I receive the settlement value?
Aviva then mentions the engineer:
I would request wait, once we will receive the detail report from an engineer then our team 
will raise payment for you within 1 working day and amount will be credited in your account 
within 3-5 working day. 
Mr B provides bank details and asks:
Can you please give me a more accurate timescale so I will be able to purchase another 
car?Aviva reply:
I will contact [the assessor] and ask them to contact you within 1 working day, once we 
receive the detail report our team will raise payment accordingly.
Aviva later say:
Once [the assessor] will contact you offer you the settlement value and once agreed by you 
our team will raise payment for you within 1 working day and the settlement value will be 
credited in your account within 3-5 working day.
Aviva has said in its response to our investigators view that its clear Mr B had to wait for the 
settlement to be agreed by an engineer. It says its claims handler explained that to Mr B.
But I dont agree that its clear or was explained to Mr B. Aviva do mention that an engineer 
would be involved, but it seems to me that very early on in the conversation Avivas claims 
handler writes that the write-off is agreed, and so is the valuation, and the payment will 
follow. 
The phrasing used seems to include the engineer as a mere formality rather than the person 
who should be providing the settlement figure to Mr B.
And by taking his bank details, I also think its reasonable that Mr B thinks everything is 
accepted and hes going to be receiving payment.
Repairing the car
About nine days after Mr B was told his car was written-off, he contacted Aviva by webchat 
and asks about settlement of his claim.
In this webchat, it told him that the car was repairable. Mr B told Aviva he had ordered a 
replacement car. Its clear that Mr B is unhappy and he says he will arrange for T to collect 
the car and carry out repairs. He says in the webchat hes lost all confidence with Aviva.
Aviva then didnt authorise T to carry out the repairs for about seven weeks, during which Mr 
B didnt have a car to use. 
Because he was so disappointed by Avivas claims service, he bought a replacement car. Mr 
B has explained he needed a car to go on an important holiday.  
Ive thought carefully about this. I think I should consider whether Avivas actions meant that 
Mr B had to buy a replacement car whilst his car was being repaired. 
There are various factors I need to consider here, such as that Mr B would probably have 
been entitled to a courtesy car for the duration of his repairs if hed used Avivas approved 
repairer rather than T. But given Mr Bs experience of Avivas claims process so far, I dont 
think its unreasonable of Mr B to have used his own choice of repairer.
Mr B has said he was left without transport from June to September because of Avivas 
claims delays and poor handling of his complaint. Given that Aviva told him his car had been 
written-off, I dont think its unreasonable of him to look buy a replacement. 
But then he was told his car would be repaired and he continued to buy one while Aviva 
continued to delay his claim. I do think he could have done to understand what was going to 
happen once his car was repaired, but by this point in the claim I can understand that he felt the relationship had deteriorated to a point at which he needed to make a decisive move to 
keep himself mobile so he could attend some pre-arranged holidays. 
I note from later correspondence that Mr B considers that the car might be worth less 
because of the extent of the repairs thatd been done to it.
In a different situation Id consider asking Aviva to pay for the value of a hire car during Mr 
Bs claim as I think its clear that Avivas mismanagement of his claim has caused him 
significant inconvenience. But I also dont think its reasonable to ask Aviva to pay for the full 
price of a replacement car when it has already settled Mr Bs claim at around £7,000. 
Summary
Ive looked at Avivas policy wording. The policy is clear that it will pay for either the repairs 
or the total loss value arising from one incident. 
So I need to think about whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Aviva to, 
effectively, buy-back Mr Bs first car and indemnify him for his losses on it, even though I 
appreciate Aviva could then continue to sell the repaired car and recover much of its costs. 
This is in addition to Aviva paying for the repairs to the car.
I also need to consider that Avivas poor handling of this claim and the opportunities its had 
to put the situation right have meant that Mr B has felt no option but to proceed as he did.
I think Avivas error in telling Mr B his car had been written off and the settlement figure was 
significant. But once itd made this significant error, Aviva continued to make further 
mistakes during the claim. It seems to me that the worst of these was simply to not control 
the claim and guide Mr B sufficiently well enough so that he could make the correct 
decisions. 
So, I think its reasonable to expect Aviva bear responsibility for its errors. I dont think its 
reasonable to ask Aviva to pay for the full price of a replacement car when it has already 
settled Mr Bs claim at around £7,000, but I do think its reasonable to expect that it pays the 
difference between the settlement figure it offered Mr B (£20,250) and the value of the 
vehicle.
Car values have varied hugely in the past few years, and I can see that Mr B thinks it is 
worth about £17,000 in early 2023, less the amount hed have to pay for it to be sold. I think 
its fair to say that the car will have changed in value since the damage happened in June 
2023. This services approach is to use trade guides to arrive at a figure for a vehicles value. 
I think its fair to ask Aviva to pay the difference between the settlement figure I think it 
reasonably offered him, and the average of the trade guide values as at the date he bought 
the replacement car, which was 25 August. I think its fair to use this date because its when 
Mr B needed to get himself mobile again. I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to pay the 
difference to the date of my decision, because I think its been Mr Bs decision to retain and 
store the car for this long, and I cant say thats Avivas fault.
I also dont think its fair to expect Aviva to pay for the cost of selling the car because the 
method of doing this will remain Mr Bs choice.
Its clear that Mr Bs distress and inconvenience has been significant throughout his claim. 
Aviva has offered Mr B £500 compensation for this and I think this amount is fair.
Responses to my provisional decisionBoth parties agreed with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties agreed with my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Ive mentioned above about the value of Mr Bs car at 25 August. Aviva will have access to 
trade guides, but Im aware that Mr B probably wont. 
So Ive carried out some research into the trade guide values as at 25 August 2022 and I 
can see they give an average value of £18,864. Aviva has agreed this value, so I have used 
this figure in my final decision below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr B:
£500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
The difference between £20,250 and £18,864 (which is £1,386), plus interest at 8% 
simple from 25 August 2022 to the date payment is made.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman