DRN-3157504
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited allowed his pension 
transfer to proceed in 2013 without warning him about the risks of doing so. Mr C says that, 
as a regulated business, Prudential should have been aware of the risks and carried out 
thorough checks. He says Prudential didnt contact him or recommend he seek independent 
financial advice. Mr C believes he has lost his entire pension as a result of the transfer. 
What happened
Mr C is represented and his representative says that in September 2012 Mr C was cold-
called several times by an unregulated introducer called MC Global Choice. It says that 
another unregulated firm called Pension Matters may have been involved. Mr C was told 
that if he transferred his pension he would obtain better returns. He was told to invest in a 
hotel development. He was offered an incentive of £1,000 for transferring. 
It is submitted that Mr C decided to go ahead and a written report was provided to him from 
a firm called Green & Global Limited. Mr C was put in touch with 5G Futures Administration 
or 5G Wealth Management Ltd to organise a transfer to the 5G Futures Pension Scheme 
(5G). Mr Cs pension was then transferred to the 5G scheme in January 2013. 
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had received properly completed transfer 
paperwork to transfer Mr Cs pension to the 5G scheme. The scheme had been registered 
with HMRC and it was not a newly registered scheme. It said there was no justification for it 
to refuse Mr Cs request to transfer and there was no evidence of pension liberation. It was 
only in late 2013 that concerns were raised about the scheme. The transfer pre-dated The 
Pension Regulators (TPR) Scorpion publication in February 2013. 
Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was considered by 
an investigator. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said:
He had considered whether Prudential had had acted fairly and carried out 
appropriate checks before the pension transfer occurred.
It should be noted that Mr C had a legal right to transfer his pension and the provider 
had a duty to process such a transfer in a timely manner.
Prudential received an information request from an unregulated business in October 
2012. There was no requirement for the business requesting such information to be 
regulated. Prudential subsequently supplied the information.
Prudential received a request in December 2012 from the 5G pension scheme, 
requesting the transfer of Mr Cs pension. 
Prudential received information that confirmed the scheme had been established in 
2008 and was registered with HMRC. The new scheme could also accept transfers. 
Mr C authorised the transfer and so Prudential then sent the pension funds to the 5G 
pension scheme. 
Prudential undertook the required checks and there was no reason for it not to 
process the pension transfer based on what was provided to it.  
Mr Cs representative did not accept the adjudicators assessment. In summary it said:
There were clear warning signs that ought to have raised concern and if they had 
been raised with Mr C he would have been better placed to decide whether to 
transfer.
The 2012 press release from TPR which gave an overview of pension liberation was 
widely distributed and was issued to raise awareness of pension liberation. 
As there were clear warning signs had any comprehensive checks took place, Mr C 
would have been alerted and could have considered the situation further. The checks 
carried out by Prudential were substandard as there was no contact with Mr C.
The issue of the guidance in 2013 about pension liberation shows this was a growing 
issue and more needed to be done to stop the transfers.
Prudential had an overriding duty of care to Mr C. COBS 2.1.1 required it to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client". It 
was Prudentials duty to act in Mr Cs best interest so it should have contacted him 
directly.
Prudential should have highlighted the risks to Mr C given he received unregulated 
advice. So it breached Principle 6 as set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook  which concerned paying due regard to the interests of its consumers. 
Therefore the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment Prudential was 
operating in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as 
any rules and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the 
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another 
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like Prudential are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs 
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any 
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can 
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the scorpion campaign, personal pension 
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC 
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some
way, suspicious. However, ahead of the scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA, and
other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned about
the dangers of pension liberation schemes:
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of 
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to 
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as 
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, the 
fees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was 
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged 
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and 
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation. 
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about 
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow. 
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that 
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as Prudential.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was 
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, 
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences 
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life 
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did Prudential follow the relevant guidance and rules?
I have seen the following relevant documents:
Confirmation from HMRC that the 5G Futures Pension has been registered as of 
2008. 
An undated New Member Application for the 5G Futures Pension Scheme for Mr C.
A letter dated 3 December 2012 from the Administrators for the 5G Futures Pension 
Scheme confirming that the 5G pension scheme is a registered money purchase 
pension scheme. 
A Transfer Payment Authority and Declaration in which Mr C has authorised the 
transfer of his Prudential pension to 5G Futures Pension. Mr C has dated the form 
on 6 November 2012. A box has been ticked to indicate the receiving scheme is an 
Individual personal pension scheme (SIPP). 
A Prudential Transfer Value Acceptance and Authority to pay form for Mr C dated 21 
December 2012. This requests a transfer to MC Global Choice Ltd. This was signed 
by Mr C on 8 January 2013. 
A letter dated 18 January 2013 from Prudential to MC Global Choice Limited. This 
confirms a transfer of Mr Cs pension has been made to an account called 5G 
Futures Pension. 
A letter from Prudential to Pension Matters Associates Limited dated 18 January 
2013. This confirms that Mr Cs pension policy was transferred to MC Global Choice 
Ltd. 
Confirmation that Mr C has made an investment in a hotel development. 
Mr Cs representative says there were several warning signs that should have been 
apparent to Prudential. These were that Mr C had received an incentive, that Mr C had been 
told that he could access his pension before the age of 55 or misled about the tax 
consequences of doing so, and there were conflicting references on the transfer 
documentation as to the nature of the pension scheme. On the basis that it was an 
occupational scheme, 5G Futures Ltd had been dormant since 2008 and had never traded. 
Mr C was also geographically distant from the pension scheme and the administrator of the 
scheme was not regulated. Mr Cs representative also said that the receiving pension 
scheme was connected to an unregulated investment company, the proposed investments 
made by the 5G scheme were all risky and unregulated, Mr C was basing his decision on 
advice from an unregulated business, there was evidence of cold calling and Mr C had not 
received advice from a regulated party.  I have not seen evidence that Prudential was aware that Mr C had received an incentive, 
that he had been told he could access his pension before the age of 55, was aware he had 
been advised by an unregulated business or what the nature of the 5G investment was. In its 
role as a pension provider it did not need to know these things in order to carry out a pension 
transfer and was not required to be aware of them in order to facilitate a pension transfer of 
this nature. I have also not seen any evidence it was aware that Mr C had been cold-called. 
And it is not for Prudential to check if Mr C had received regulated advice.  Mr C did not 
need to have been given regulated advice to request a transfer of a money purchase 
pension at this time.  
I agree that at the time and regardless of the fact that TPRs Scorpion guidance on pension 
liberation had not been issued at this point, that Prudential had a duty to act professionally 
and in the best interests of Mr C. However I do not believe it breached those duties, based 
on the information it had. 
There wasnt an overriding duty that Prudential directly contact Mr C at the time to discuss 
his transfer or the circumstances surrounding his transfer. There would be a reasonable 
expectation it would do so, or undertake further checks, if there was sufficient reason to 
suspect that there was something untoward about the transfer. But here I do not believe 
there was sufficient evidence that was apparent to Prudential that it should contact Mr C or 
make further checks before processing the transfer. 
The contradictory information as to the nature of the scheme was a tick box on one transfer 
form. Prudential say that if this had been picked up at the time it would have been corrected 
but that was not sufficient to take further action. I appreciate that the pension schemes 
address was some distance from Mr Cs residential address but I do not believe that 
sufficient or so unusual as to have triggered further action by Prudential. This is especially 
considering that the Scorpion guidance which listed that as a factor had not been issued at 
the time this transfer occurred. There wasnt a requirement for a pension administrator to be 
regulated and I do not believe that should have indicated to Prudential that further action 
was required. As discussed, I have not seen that Prudential was aware of the other factors 
Mr Cs representative describes as indicating consumer detriment might result.
Mr Cs representative has confirmed that pension liberation did not occur insofar as any 
money was taken from Mr Cs pension. This was only a situation where Mr C had transferred 
to another scheme and then invested subsequently in a way that has led to significant loss. 
Prudential had received a request from Mr C to transfer his pension to a HMRC registered 
pension scheme and I believe it was reasonable to fulfill that request in the circumstances 
without taking further action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman