DRN-3800577
The complaint
Mr M, who is represented by a claims management company (CMC) complains that 
Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
in respect of a timeshare. The purchase was made jointly with his wife, but the credit card 
account was in his name only and so for simplicity I will refer to Mr M as the sole purchaser 
in this decision.
What happened
In May 2013, Mr M, bought membership with a holiday club called E. The total cost of the 
membership was £11,250 and Mr M paid £2,250 using his Santander credit card and the 
rest by bank transfer. In this decision I will use E to describe a group of related businesses. 
But Mr M actually contracted with EEL (a registered British company) and paid RS (a 
registered Spanish company). This is important when discussing the arrangements in place 
at the time of sale.
As the payment was made in euros the money was converted by another entity I will call X. 
Mr M has explained that he was required to use X by E.
Under the terms of Mr Ms membership he was provided with credits from E that could be 
used to purchase services that E provided under its Concierge Lifestyle & Leisure service. 
Those services included discounted holidays, travel benefits and access to tickets for 
entertainment. It is not clear if Mr M made any use of the credits.
In May 2018, E stopped offering services to its customers. EEL, an associated company, 
applied to be struck off the Companies House register in June 20182 and that happened in 
October. Further, in March 2019, the Chief Executive of E (DR) and the Managing Director of 
E (SR) were sentenced in Birmingham Crown Court for various consumer protection 
offences related to E. Finally, in December 2019, RS was declared to be insolvent.
The CMC on behalf of Mr M made a claim under s.75 CCA arguing that the nature and 
benefits of membership had been misrepresented to him. As the purchase had been partly 
funded by using a credit card, Mr M said Santander was equally liable for what he said had 
happened.
Santander responded to the claim, but said that as Mr M did not pay E directly using his 
credit card, that meant there was not the right type of arrangement in place to be able to 
make a claim under the CCA.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed with Santander. She said she 
thought the required debtor-creditor-supplier chain was broken. The CMC didnt agree and 
said it believed the chain was intact. Our investigator took the view that regardless of the 
chain that the claim failed and that misrepresentation had not been demonstrated. The CMC 
asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The law
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the 
creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, 
between himself and the supplier.
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.187(1) CCA states:
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance with, or in 
furtherance of, arrangements previously made between [the creditor and the supplier, one of 
them and an associate of the others or an associate of one and an associate of the others].
s.184 CCA deals with what an associate is under the CCA. It reads:
(1) A person is an associate of an individual is that person is 

(b) a relative of 
(i) the individual, or
(ii) the individuals husband or wife or civil partner, or

(3) A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate 
Page 3 of 7
(a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons 
who are his associates, or he and persons who are his associates, are controllers of the other; or

(5) In this section relative  means brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, lineal 
ancestor or lineal descendant, references to a husband or wife include a former husband or 
wife and a reputed husband or wife, and references to a civil partner include a former civil 
partner and a reputed civil partner and for the purposes of this subsection a relationship shall 
be established as if any illegitimate child, step-child or adopted child of a person were the 
legitimate child of the relationship in question.
Finally, controller is defined in s.189 CCA as:
controller, in relation to a body corporate, means a person 
(a) in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of the body corporate or 
of another body corporate which is its controller (or any of them) are accustomed to act, or
(b) who, either alone or with any associate or associates, is entitled to exercise, or control 
the exercise of, one third or more of the voting power at any general meeting of the body 
corporate or of another body corporate which is its controller
What arrangement was in place at the time Mr M took out E membership?
It is not in dispute that Mr M used a credit card to purchase something and the use of a 
credit card can give rise to a claim under s.75 CCA.
Mr M entered into an agreement with EEL and it provided a subscription to E at Platinum 
level. So the services provided to E members were to be provided by the company EEL.
However, the payment was not made to EEL and Mr Ms credit card statement shows it went 
to RS via X. I could not see that Mr M entered into any contractual relationship with RS. So 
the question I considered was what was the arrangement between RS and EEL? Having 
considered the law as set out above, if RS and EEL were associates, I thought the right 
arrangement was in place for Mr M to make a claim under s.75 CCA.
The sole director of EEL was SR.
RS was incorporated in Spain in 2007. DR was appointed as Apoderado at that stage. 
Several different appointments and resignations are recorded, but in November 2011, DR 
and another person called DV were both appointed as Apo Sol. And in June 2012, DV was 
appointed as Administrador Unico.
I note that SR is DRs step-daughter, so they are relatives, and therefore associates, for the 
purposes of s.184 CCA. As sole director SR was a controller of EEL under part (b) of the 
definition of controller in s.189 CCA.
Based on what I have seen, I am not sure whether DR was a controller of RS under part (b) 
of the definition of controller in s.189 CCA, however I think he was a controller of RS under 
part (a). Under part (a) of the definition, a controller is not simply a registered director of a 
company, but also someone who can direct or instruct a companys directors to act. This is a 
question of fact.
DR described himself as the CEO of E. In March 2019 he and his step-daughter, SR, were 
sentenced for consumer protection offences at Birmingham Crown Court. The sentencing remarks include the following:
[SR [ and [DR], you pleaded guilty to consumer protection offences in respect of your roles 
as Chief Executive in your case [DR], and as Managing Director [SR], of [E] Group Limited.
It was through your efforts and others that the company went to considerable efforts to try 
and circumvent regulations which were intended to protect the clients or consumers, and you 
were seeking to avoid the need to engage in cancellation rights.
So long as the document was signed by the customer or client, by any sales tactics, the 
money could be demanded. By your plea [DR}, and by my findings [SR], I find that that was 
done with your consent.
Your basis of plea [DR] was put on a basis which was not acceptable to the Crown initially 
but before the case was called on in December for the trial of the issue to take place you 
accepted that as far as your involvement was concerned, the basis of your plea was on the 
understanding that in relation to all matters the actions were taken with your knowledge and 
consent.
Customers' cards were used to make payments. The payments were made to a separate 
corporate entity, that was [RS] in Tenerife. This was done deliberately to avoid bank card 
fees, and customers indicated in the course of their individual transactions in some cases 
that they were surprised and concerned to find that their payments were being taken in that 
way.
[EEL] was one of a group of companies that traded under an umbrella of the [E] Group. One 
of the other companies in the group was [RS] which was operated out of Spain or Tenerife. 
You [DR] were the Chief Executive Officer of the group, but over the period from 2012 to 
2018 you were directly involved in the management in addition of [EEL].
It is plain that DR was a controller of RS, no matter who its registered officers were. The 
sentencing judge found as fact that he was the chief executive officer of the group that 
included that business, so I found it more likely than not that any directors of RS would have 
been accustomed to act after his directions or instructions.
The judge also found that DR was directly involved in the management of EEL between 
2012 and 2018, so for the same reasons he is likely to have been a controller of EEL too in 
addition to being related to a controller of EEL. It follows I thought the two body corporates, 
EEL and RS, were associated under s.184(3)(a) CCA and there were the requisite 
arrangements in place for a s.75 CCA claim to be made.
However, Mr Ms payment went through a third-party business, X, so I needed to consider 
whether its involvement meant a DCS agreement was in place due to the arrangements in 
place between the parties.
It has been held that the word arrangements is capable of carrying a broad meaning and 
such arrangements can be found when there is no direct relationship between the supplier 
and card issuer, for example via the use of merchant acquirers in credit card schemes or 
when one business processes payment on behalf of another.
Mr M said that he made an initial payment at the direction of Es sales representative using 
his credit card. Mr M believed he paid E. However, Mr Ms credit card statement shows he 
didnt pay the supplier, rather he paid a business X and he has provided a deal summary 
from X along with the complaint.Having considered all of the evidence and having noted Mr Ms recollection that he used a 
card machine, I think it most likely that Mr M made a payment online. This is reinforced by 
the deal summary that Mr M provided to us. That document doesnt look like a card 
machine receipt, but appears to show that Mr M used X to exchange money and then 
transfer it to a nominated bank account. It also showed that he paid £4 in transfer fees and 
£33.75 in payment fees to X to undertake the transaction. It was noted at the top of the 
document that the account name with X was Mr Ms name and he had a specific client 
number.
I believe the deal summary was a record of the transfer that Mr M instructed X to make and, 
based on what R had said, I think this was most likely done online.
R has told this service that that once it receives a clients funds it pays those into the 
nominated bank account. So I dont think X would have been acting on behalf of RS when it 
took payment from Mr Ms card, nor do I think there were any arrangements between X and 
RS. Rather, I think the arrangement was between Mr M and X, such that it was acting on his 
behalf in making the payment. I say that even though I appreciate Mr M was advised to use 
X by Es representative.
Having considered everything, I didnt think RS and R were sufficiently linked such at there 
was a DCS agreement in place. It followed, therefore, that I dont think Santander acted 
unfairly in turning down the s.75 CCA claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision and so I have no reason to alter it. 
That means that given I dont consider that debtor-creditor-supplier link is in place on this 
transaction I consider the claim fails. As such I do not consider it necessary to explore the 
claim further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman