DRN-3123320
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs A complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited said it was 
covered for £100,000. Utmost then said it had made a mistake and said the correct sum 
assured was £2,500. 
The estate is being represented by Mr A  the late Mrs As widower - who Ill mainly refer to 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
In 2000 the late Mrs A took out a decreasing term assurance policy with Utmost and set the 
policy up in trust with Mr A as the trustee. 
In October 2019 Mr A received correspondence from Utmost which said the policy provided 
cover of £100,000 and that no cover would be provided after 11 January 2020. Mr A then 
contacted Utmost to let it know his wife had passed away and to make a claim on the policy. 
In early November 2019 Utmost wrote to Mr A again and told him the value payable to him 
was £100,000. 
A few weeks later Utmost sent a letter to Mr A saying that a mistake had been made and 
that he would only receive a lump sum of £2,500  not £100,000. So, Mr A made a 
complaint. 
Utmost reviewed the complaint and apologised to Mr A and offered £200 for its mistake. It 
added that it had listened to a call it had with Mr A in June 2019 where he confirmed the sum 
assured at the time was £5,000. So, it wasnt going to pay him the £100,000 it had 
incorrectly stated previously because this wasnt the correct amount. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. He said he had made 
life changing decisions in relation to the sale of his house and his pension following Utmosts 
mistake and that it should pay him £100,000. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said it was clear Utmost 
had made a mistake, but she didnt think she could fairly ask it to pay Mr A £100,000 when 
he wasnt entitled to this amount under the policy. She added that Mr A put his house on the 
market in April 2019 so he could clear some debts after he had cared for his wife, and that 
following Utmosts mistake, he decided to keep the house until he claimed his pension. But 
when Mr A was told Utmost had made a mistake, he decided to sell his house and 
drawdown some funds from his pension to help with his debts. She said that as Mr A had 
decided to sell the house before Utmost made a mistake, she didnt think Utmosts mistake 
had forced him to sell his house. So, she said the £200 offer from Utmost was fair here. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He didnt think it was right that the 
insurer could make a mistake and then not honour it.  
I considered the complaint and was minded to ask Utmost to increase its offer to Mr A to 
£400 in total for the distress and inconvenience it caused. Utmost agreed. But Mr A didnt. 
He doesnt think the offer is enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint in part. But while I dont want to add to Mr As 
distress, Im not satisfied Utmost needs to pay him £100,000. I know this will be very 
disappointing news for Mr A. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Utmost has accepted it made a mistake here. So, I need to decide whether the mistakes it 
made (mentioning the incorrect sum assured twice in writing) means that Mr A should 
receive £100,000. 
Mr A received two letters from Utmost. The first letter mentioned the sum assured for this 
policy was £100,000. This was correct at the time the policy was taken out by Mr As late 
wife, but as it was a decreasing term assurance, the sum assured reduced every year, so 
this wasnt the correct sum assured at the time the letter was sent to Mr A. The second letter 
also incorrectly stated the value payable to Mr A, as of August 2019, was £100,000. 
Mr A has said he made life changing decisions in relation to his employment and pension 
following Utmosts letter. Ive considered that carefully, but I agree with the investigator that 
Mr A has told this service he had already put his house on the market earlier in 2018 and 
2019 before Utmosts mistake. I understand that following Utmosts mistake he had hoped 
the £100,000 would instead clear his debts. But as he wasnt entitled to this sum under his 
policy, I cant fairly ask Utmost to make that payment to him. 
Ive also listened to the call Mr A had with Utmost in June 2019. The reason for the call was 
to find out if his wife had a terminal illness benefit under this policy. When the late Mrs A had 
to give Utmost verbal authority to speak to Mr A, he confirmed the sum assured under the 
policy was £5,000. Utmost told him during this conversation that the policy didnt have a 
terminal illness benefit and that it would pay the sum assured on the date of death. 
I accept Mr A was having a very difficult time when he spoke to Utmost and that he cant 
remember it. But its clear from the call he was aware of the sum assured he was entitled to 
at that time. So, despite Utmosts two errors, Id expect him question if what Utmost was 
telling him about the sum assured was correct in its letters. 
Mr A said that if he makes a mistake when applying for an insurance policy the insurer has 
the right to void the policy. But when Utmost made its mistakes he has been left to deal with 
the consequences. 
I understand why Mr A is frustrated with Utmosts errors. But for the reasons Ive explained, 
Mr A wasnt entitled to the £100,000 sum assured at the time of the claim. And this was set 
out in the insurance contract that the late Mrs A agreed with Utmost when she took out the 
policy. 
My role here is to try and put Mr A back in the position he wouldve been in had it not been 
for Utmosts mistake. And given what Ive considered above, Im satisfied the fairest way to do that is for Utmost to make a payment to him to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
its mistake caused him.  
In thinking about what is a fair and reasonable outcome here, Ive taken careful account of 
our approach to these types of awards, and our published guidance. Utmost has now agreed 
to increase its offer to £400. I do think it shouldve handled this issue with more care at an 
already distressing time, but I believe the £400 is sufficient to cover the impact of this on 
Mr A. I realise that this may seem like an insignificant amount to Mr A considering the 
difficult and distressing ordeal he has been through. But I think this reflects the specific 
administrative errors Utmost has made.
Putting things right
Utmost has admitted it made mistakes here and has now agreed to offer £400 for this. For 
the reasons Ive explained above, I think thats a fair and reasonable offer and in line with 
what Id expect in similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited should pay Mr A £400. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms A 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman