DRN-3918969
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice given by Norrix Financial Services Limited to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused her a financial loss.
What happened
In early 2007 Mrs Bs former employer closed its DB scheme to members. At the time the 
scheme closed Mrs B had 17 years and 4 months of pensionable service and her pension at 
her normal retirement age (NRD) of 65 was forecast to be £17,533.49 with options to take 
tax-free cash and a reduced pension. A short while after the scheme closed, Mrs Bs 
employer made an offer to all the scheme members that included the option to receive an 
enhanced cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) to transfer her DB pension benefits out of 
the scheme. 
Around this time Mrs B was referred to Norrix by her IFA. Norrix advised Mrs B that it would 
be in her best interests to accept her employers offer and to transfer her benefits to a 
personal pension with A, investing in four funds  40% in a property fund, 20% in a 
retirement distribution fund, 20% in a global distribution fund and 20% in global equities. The 
transfer went ahead in September 2007 with a transfer value of £108,999.89. Shortly after 
the transfer took place Norrix sent Mrs B a reasons why letter which said the reason for 
making the recommendation was that Mrs B would benefit by taking advantage of her former 
employers enhanced offer. Norrix has also said it thought the transfer was in Mrs Bs best 
interests as there was a strong probability that she would receive a higher pension than by 
remaining in his DB scheme. 
Mrs B complained to Norrix in August 2021. She said:
the transfer to the personal pension wasnt suitable for her and that her adviser 
hadnt properly established her attitude to risk (ATR);
that Norrix had failed to carry out an adequate fact-find so didnt have full knowledge 
about her financial situation;
that it didnt discuss with her the funds her pension would be invested in and the risks 
associated with them;
that it hadnt explained the fees and charges associated with the pension and how 
they would affect the return on her investment. 
Norrix looked into Mrs Bs complaint, issuing its final response in December 2021, but it 
didnt recommend that it was upheld. Norrix said to Mrs B that if the transfer had been 
unsuitable then it wouldnt have recommended it. And it said that based on the mid-range 
assumptions accepted at the time, the transfer value analysis (TVAS) indicated that at NRD 
she would receive twice as much tax-free cash (TFC) along with a pension that was 50% 
higher than her DB scheme. It also said that it had discussed her ATR with her and that the 
investments recommended were based on those discussions. Norrix also said it had 
explained to her the differences between a DB scheme and a personal pension and it had 
given explanations about the investment funds. Finally it said the charges were clearly cited 
in the documents Mrs B had received.
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to Norrix, Mrs B complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought the 
transfer wasnt financially viable and that Mrs B was likely to receive lower overall benefits 
than if she had been advised to remain in her DB scheme. He also thought that there were 
no other compelling reasons to make the transfer, so he thought Mrs B hadnt been suitably 
advised. Our investigator required Norrix to pay compensation to Mrs B in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance. And he required Norrix to pay Mrs B compensation of 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused to her as a result of worrying about losing her 
pension.
Norrix disagreed with our Investigators findings. It said our Investigator had made 
contradictory findings about whether Mrs B was likely to be better off or not as a result of the 
transfer. And whilst it accepted that its records relating to the sale werent as comprehensive 
as they could be it said it had treated Mrs B fairly. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but wasnt persuaded to change his mind so 
the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
rules (COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Norrixs actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The provisions in COB 5.3 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. 
Having done so Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator.
The then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), stated in COB that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Norrix should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Bs best 
interests (COB 5.3.29G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.Financial viability 
At the point Mrs B was first approached by Norrix offering her advice, her former employer 
had closed the scheme and had recently written to all deferred members to make them an 
offer. Mrs Bs former employer said she could choose to remain a deferred member of the 
scheme, or she could transfer her CETV to a personal pension and receive a cash payment 
for doing so, or she could transfer an enhanced CETV to a personal pension. After 
consulting with Norrix, Mrs B decided to choose the third option. Her CETV was valued at 
£44,853.91 and the additional enhancement was £64,145.98. In total, Mrs B transferred 
£108,999.89.
Mrs B has said that she was assured by Norrix that by transferring her DB scheme benefits, 
the personal pension would provide her with a pension income, TFC and capital growth 
benefits in excess of those her DB scheme would provide. Mrs B has said she relied on what 
she was told and went ahead with the transfer. Shes also said that she was advised by 
Norrix that her employer would enhance her pension if she transferred her scheme benefits 
out and, in light of the incentive being provided, it would be in her interests to transfer her 
pension. Other than the potential for higher growth which persuaded Mrs B it was in her best 
interests to transfer her DB scheme, it doesnt appear that she had any other objectives in 
mind. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on its website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at normal 
retirement age (age 65) was quoted in the TVAS as 6% per year (if Mrs B took the TFC). I 
think its reasonable to assume that Mrs B would have taken the tax-free cash at retirement 
given that it is a tax efficient way of drawing down a personal pension. And at the time of the 
advice Mrs B received from Norrix in 2007 her intended retirement age was 65 (according to 
the selected retirement age stated on her pension schedule).
So, the critical yield identified in the Transfer Value Analysis report (TVAS) for matching the 
benefits at age 65 of 6% compares favourably with the discount rate of 6.7% per year for 28 
years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% per year. So it is 
reasonable to assume, based on the fact that the critical yield was lower than both the 
discount rate of 6.7% and the regulators middle projection rate of 7% I have cited above, 
that Mrs B could most likely have matched, and possibly exceeded, the guaranteed benefits 
offered by her DB scheme at her normal retirement age of 65.  
Whilst there is no documented evidence from the time of the advice about what Mrs Bs 
attitude to risk then was I do note that she said in her complaint: I am not risk averse. I can 
see too that Mrs B appointed a new IFA and transferred her personal pension with A to 
another provider in 2018. I can see that her new IFA noted her ATR as balanced (or 
medium). And Mrs B recently told our Investigator that her ATR in 2007 was balanced. So, 
Im satisfied that Mrs Bs ATR has never been anything other than medium. 
As Mrs Bs ATR is and was, by her own account, medium, it is reasonable to assume that a 
critical yield of 6% based on that attitude to risk was achievable and that she would be 
prepared to make the investments needed to try and attain that level of growth. So based on the critical yield it is possible therefore that Mrs B could have improved on the guaranteed 
benefits offered by her DB scheme at her normal retirement age of 65. 
But despite a critical yield of 6% based on a balanced/medium ATR being potentially 
achievable, Mrs Bs overall circumstances dont, in my view, support a transfer. Ill explain 
why. 
At the time of the advice to transfer, Mrs B had ceased to work for the employer that 
provided her DB scheme, having taken redundancy in December 2006. Mrs B told our 
Investigator that she decided to use her redundancy payment to stay at home with her young 
family and didnt, in fact, return to work until 2010. Although, that wasnt necessarily planned 
at the time. Given Mrs B had given up work for the foreseeable future, I think its reasonable 
to say that she had a very low capacity for loss. I say this because the DB scheme was Mrs 
Bs only pension (aside from any state pension entitlement that she had built up by that 
point) and she didnt know to what extent shed be able to build further funds in the future. 
So, in my view, Mrs Bs DB guaranteed DB scheme benefits werent ones that she had the 
capacity to lose. 
And despite the critical yield being lower than both the discount rate and the middle 
projection rate, I think its important to stress that Mrs B, being only aged 36, was very far 
away from her retirement in 2007. So, I dont think she could reasonably say what her 
retirement looked like, or whether she thought she would benefit from a guaranteed pension. 
I also dont think she could reasonably say when she expected to retire. And while the critical 
yield at age 65 was favourable, if she needed to access her pension before her NRD and 
take early retirement then Id expect the critical yield to be higher. And in those 
circumstances, I think matching or exceeding her DB scheme benefits would be less likely.
So whilst I accept that, on the face of it, the transfer was financially viable, I cant reasonably 
ignore Mrs Bs circumstances as they stood at the time of the advice. It wasnt known if she 
would return to work, if she would be able to build up further pension benefits in the future or 
what her retirement objectives were. So it follows that I dont think her guaranteed DB 
scheme benefits were ones she had the capacity to lose. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs B or in her 
best interests. But there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable 
overall and Ive considered these below.
Mrs Bs objectives 
Before November 2007, the regulator expected a prospective investor to receive 
sufficient, clear information to make an informed investment decision based on a firm 
understanding of the risks involved and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations 
and options they may be giving up.  At least one illustration for the personal pension had to 
be on a similar basis to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in 
payment were shown. A reason why letter or equivalent had to be issued as soon as 
practicable after the recommendation. It should: explain why that advice is suitable. That 
explanation should take explicit account of the alternative of remaining within the 
occupational scheme. And demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, 
objectives and risk profile of the investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by 
the firm.
Mrs B was only aged 36 at the time of the advice. I dont know if she had any retirement 
plans because there is no record of this information being recorded. Norrix has said it has no 
fact-find on its files.In fact, the only documented objectives for the transfer appear in the short reason why letter 
sent by Norrix to Mrs B on 3 October 2007. The letter provided a very brief explanation of the 
main differences between a DB scheme and a personal pension. It also stated, it [is] very 
difficult to compare the two types of pension. One [the DB scheme] is based on salary and 
years service, the other depends on how well the investments in your account grow until 
retirement age.  There then followed a section headed Your choice where Norrix stated, 
we felt that you would benefit by taking advantage of the [employer] offer and transferring to 
a personal pension with [A]. I am preparing a special report for you which gives the details of 
the transfer process and illustrates the benefits you have received from this change. 
In summary, the objective for the transfer appears to be that Mrs B would benefit from her 
former employers offer. If a special report was ever produced I have unfortunately not seen 
it. But in any event, both the reason why letter and any special report post-date the transfer. 
And the TVAS report contains a statement that it is directed at financial advisers and should 
not be distributed to private customers. So Im not persuaded that Mrs B received any 
information prior to agreeing to the transfer.
And the rule I referred to above states that a prospective investor should receive sufficient 
clear information to make an informed decision. Norrixs reason why letter and special report 
were provided retrospective to Mrs Bs investment. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs B 
understood the risks involved or had any understanding of the protections, or understood the 
benefits, she was giving up. I appreciate that Norrix says there were face-to-face meetings 
but I cant know what was discussed. It is not sufficient for Norrix to say that it wouldnt have 
recommended an unsuitable transfer  it needs to be able to show that Mrs B had enough 
information before her to be able to make an informed decision and I dont think that its 
been able to do that. 
Nor can I agree that the reason why letter explained why the transfer was suitable for Mrs B. 
No such explanation appears in the letter at all and there is certainly no explicit account of 
the alternative of remaining in the DB scheme. Nor is there any link between the 
circumstances, objectives and risk profile of Mrs B and the recommendation Norrix was 
making. 
So I cant reasonably conclude that Norrix discharged its regulatory obligations to Mrs B by 
advising her to transfer. Whilst she was in possession of a number of illustrations in the 
TVAS I dont think that these demonstrate that she had been provided with clear enough 
information for her to make an informed decision about whether transferring his DB scheme 
was in her best interests. 
Death benefits
I can see that the DB scheme included a spouses pension equal to 50% of Mrs Bs accrued 
pension in the event of her death and a dependents pension of 33.33% of the accrued 
spouses pension payable to age 18 (or 23 if in full time education). Small lump sums were 
also payable. Norrix has confirmed that death benefits didnt form part of the discussions it 
had with Mrs B. So I have no information available about what Mrs B thought at the time 
about the guaranteed death benefits she was giving up by transferring his DB scheme. But 
As Mrs B is married it seems her family couldve benefitted from the death benefits attached 
to the DB scheme. So, I dont think she ought to have been encouraged to give these up.
Summary I dont doubt that the offer of an attractively enhanced CETV by Mrs Bs former employer and 
the potential financial viability of the transfer to a personal pension could have sounded 
attractive to Mrs B. But Norrix wasnt there to just transact what Mrs B might have thought 
she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mrs B needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs B by Norrix was suitable. She was giving up 
a guaranteed, risk-free and index linked retirement income and what was, at the time of the 
advice her only pension provision. By transferring, it meant Mrs Bs retirement was exposed 
to investment risk and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify 
a transfer to outweigh this. Mrs B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of her DB 
scheme just because her employer was offering an enhanced CETV. So, I think Norrix 
shouldve advised Mrs B to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs B would've gone ahead anyway, against Norrixs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Norrixs advice. I say this because Ive seen no 
evidence that she would have done. If Norrix had provided Mrs B with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she 
wouldve likely have accepted that advice. And I dont think the enhanced CETV wouldve 
been enough of an incentive for her to go against that advice.
In light of the above, I think Norrix should compensate Mrs B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Like our Investigator I also think that Mrs B will have been caused some trouble and upset 
as a result of realising she had been given unsuitable advice to transfer her pension. Where 
a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes a consumer avoidable trouble and 
upset, this service can require it to pay compensation. I agree with our Investigator that 
Norrix should pay Mrs B compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience she was 
caused as a result of worrying the transfer had caused her a financial loss. This amount is in 
line with awards made by this service in similar circumstances and is, I think, fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mrs B whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect. Mrs B 
didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt want to 
wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs B. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Norrixs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs B 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Norrix must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs B has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Norrix may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date Norrix receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Norrix to pay Mrs B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Norrix to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Norrix should also pay Mrs B compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset 
she was caused as a result of its unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Norrix Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Norrix Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Norrix 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Norrix Financial Services Limited pays Mrs B the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs B.
If Mrs B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Norrix Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman