DRN-1416661
 
The complaint
Miss A complains about the amount that she's been charged by Black Horse Limited, trading 
as Land Rover Financial Services, for excess mileage and damage to a car that she 
returned at the end of her hire purchase agreement. She also complains that the agreement 
was mis-sold to her. She's being helped with her complaint by her representative.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss A signed the hire purchase agreement in April 2015 for a used car to be 
supplied to her and it's mileage was 25,000;
the agreement clearly said that if she returned the car at the end of the agreement 
the "permitted maximum mileage (including mileage on delivery)" was 49,000 and 
that the "excess mileage rates applicable if the permitted maximum is 
exceeded" would be 14p plus VAT for each excess mile if the excess mileage 
was 4,999 or less and 28p plus VAT if it was more than that;
she also signed a regulatory requirements document to confirm that she'd received 
pre-contract credit information and an explanation of the agreement and that the 
payments were affordable for her;
I consider that the excess mileage charges were clearly set out in the agreement and 
weren't misleading - and I'm not persuaded that there's enough evidence to show 
that the agreement was mis-sold to Miss A;
the car was collected and inspected by a third party on behalf of Land 
Rover Financial Services in May 2019 when the agreement ended and an inspection 
report was prepared which recorded the car's mileage as 70,676; 
the inspection report identified damage to the car with a repair cost of £813.36 and 
included photos of that damage;
Land Rover Financial Services said that the car's mileage when it was collected was 
70,609 so she'd exceeded the permitted mileage by 21,609 and it charged her 
£3,630.31 for excess mileage using a rate of 14p for each excess mile (but, because 
the excess mileage exceeded the permitted mileage by more than 5,000 miles, I 
consider that it would have been entitled to apply a rate of 28p for each excess mile 
which would have resulted in an excess mileage charge of £7,260.62);
it also charged her for the damage to the car but the investigator didn't consider that 
all of those charges were appropriate and recommended that charges totalling 
£630.98 should be removed - Land Rover Financial Services has accepted that 
recommendation;
I consider that the photos show that the car's right front wheel is scratched, the left 
rear door is dented and that a roof trim is missing and I consider it to be more likely 
than not that that damage has been caused since the car was supplied to Miss A and 
that it wouldn't reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear;
I consider that it's fair and reasonable for Land Rover Financial Services to charge 
Miss A £55 for the wheel, £70 for the door and £57.78 for the roof trim - that totals 
£182.78 and I don't consider those charges to be excessive; and
I'm not persuaded that it's unfair or unreasonable in these circumstances for Land 
Rover Financial Services to charge Miss A £3,630.31 for the excess mileage and 
£182.78 for the damage to the car.
 
Putting things right
I find that it's fair and reasonable for Land Rover Financial Services to charge Miss A for the 
excess mileage but I consider that it should reduce the charges for the damage to the car by 
£630.98 to £182.78. It has already agreed to do so.
Miss A has described the effect that these issues have caused on her health and her 
finances. I sympathise with her for those difficulties and I suggest that she contacts Land 
Rover Financial Services to try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for the 
amount that she owes to it. It's required to respond to any financial difficulties that she's 
experiencing both positively and sympathetically. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Land Rover Financial Services to pay 
her any compensation. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint in part and I order Black 
Horse Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services, to reduce the amount that it's 
charged her for damage to the car by £630.98. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman