DRN-2983176
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) blocked his card and failed to notify 
him. Hes also unhappy with Barclays service during a video call and that they credited his 
account without his agreement. 
What happened
Mr H used his card to make purchases at a shop in August 2020. But when doing so he 
received a text message asking him to confirm the authenticity of the transaction. He says 
he responded and went on to make an additional purchase a few minutes later. He says 
both purchases were made by him and went through on that day. 
Mr H has told us he doesnt use the account all the time. And when he tried to use the card 
on 28 January 2021, he found out it had been blocked because of the activity in August 
2020. He says he was with his son in hospital at this time and had no access to any money 
because he was unable to freely come and go as a result of the pandemic restrictions.
 
Mr H says when he contacted Barclays by video call to unblock his card, they incorrectly 
restricted his use again. Hes also concerned they reissued a card linked to a second 
account. The following day he was admitted to hospital and says he was unable to make any 
purchases. He complained to Barclays about this. 
Barclays responded to the complaint in February 2021 and offered £25 by way of an apology 
for causing confusion during the video call. They paid this money to Mr H. But Mr H 
contacted them to say he hadnt agreed to the payment and Barclays removed the money 
from his account. Mr H remained concerned and asked us to investigate. 
The investigator felt Barclays offer of £25 was fair and reasonable as a result of the 
inconvenience caused by the video call. However, they didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong in respect of the blocked card. 
Mr H didnt agree with the view. He explained that he did not receive a second text message 
to let him know that the card had been blocked in August 2020 and strongly feels that 
Barclays should have contacted him during the six months to let him know. Therefore, the 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blocked card 
Barclays have explained that the card was blocked as their systems flagged suspicious 
activity. Theyve said they cant say exactly what lead to the card being flagged. And I 
wouldnt expect them to as it could compromise the effectiveness of their security systems. 
However, Im content with their explanation and that they acted fairly when the card was 
blocked in August 2020. 
 
Mr H has confirmed hes unable to see the second text message and hes certain he never 
received it. He says he would have responded had he received it like he did with the first 
message. Barclays have explained that unfortunately they cant see the text messages 
which were sent. And Mr H has also expressed concern that there is no proof of the second 
text message.
 
Ive taken these comments into consideration. And Ive also reviewed the system notes 
provided by Barclays. The notes refer to a text message being sent on two separate 
occasions in August 2020. Both parties accept that the first text message was sent. Having 
thought carefully about this, Im persuaded its likely the second text message was also sent 
as referenced in their notes. I wouldnt necessarily expect Barclays to keep a copy of the text 
message given the volume of messages they send every day. For these reasons, Im 
satisfied on balance its likely Barclays sought to notify Mr H of the block by sending a 
second text message. 
Ive also considered Mr Hs comments about contacting him within the six months the card 
remained blocked. I do understand Mr Hs comments here as its an unusual length of time. 
However, Barclays have explained they wouldnt contact their customers in these 
circumstances and would wait for the customer to contact them so they could run their 
security checks.
 
I note that when Mr H did realise the card had been blocked, he was able to video call 
Barclays and Im aware he would also have been able to contact them through other means. 
I appreciate things went wrong during the video call and Ill come back to this below. But 
what this does show me is that Barclays had appropriate means set up for Mr H to be able to 
contact them quickly about his blocked card. Therefore, Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable Barclays didnt contact Mr H during the six months his card was blocked. Had 
he sought to use his card during this period, he would have realised it was blocked and 
could have called them about it sooner.  
 
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly that Barclays should have contacted him within the six 
months, and Ive considered the situation he was in. I should also note that Barclays must 
balance the needs of its customers to use their services with minimal effort and protecting its 
customers from fraud. In such cases, some minor inconvenience is often unavoidable. And 
Im not persuaded Barclays have done anything wrong here. This is because, on balance, I 
think its likely they sent the second text message to notify Mr H. Also, when Mr H did realise 
his card was blocked, Barclays were available over the phone to speak with him. 
Video call
Barclays have accepted that their video call team incorrectly restricted the use of his card. 
But theyve explained no error occurred in respect of reissuing a debit card linked to a 
different account and this happened automatically to protect his account. Barclays notes 
indicate that the new card was cancelled. 
Mr H has explained he received the reissued card the day after his video call. As this 
timeframe is fairly short, Im satisfied its likely that the card wasnt reissued as a result of action taken during the call. And Im content with Barclays explanation that it happened 
automatically. I can also see Mr H was able to speak to Barclays about this and so Im not 
persuaded they did anything wrong here. 
 
In respect of incorrectly blocking his card, Barclays have accepted that this caused Mr H 
additional inconvenience as he had to contact them to rectify the issue. And I agree this 
should be put right by Barclays. 
 
Credit
I appreciate Barclays initially paid the compensation to Mr H when he asked them not to do 
this. Ive reviewed Barclays letter sent in February 2021 and can see they say they should 
have obtained agreement before crediting his account. Therefore, they removed the money 
and apologised. Im content this is appropriate in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Barclays offered Mr H £25 compensation by way of an apology for the mistake made during 
the video call and the confusion caused. They also apologised for incorrectly crediting his 
account. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. Although I 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H, I would assure him that Ive noted the timing 
was particularly difficult for him and Ive considered what hes said here. Bearing this in mind 
and noting the card was unblocked, Im content £25 compensation is appropriate. 
 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint and this 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr H £25 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman