DRN-3667683
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr M was approved for five loans and using Morses information here is a brief loan table.
Loan Start Date End DateCapital 
AmountInterest 
amount
TermRepayment 
amount
1 25/11/2016 28/06/2017 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
2 14/04/2017 12/04/2018 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
3 28/06/2017 29/06/2018 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
4 12/04/2018 13/12/2018 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
5 29/06/2018 07/02/2019 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00
Where the loans overlap then the repayment amounts are the two figures for each row 
combined. For instance, Loans 1 and 2 together was costing Mr M £30 each week. 
After Mr M had complained, Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it gave 
reasons as to why it considered it had done all it should have before lending and so did not 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
After Mr M had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
adjudicators looked at it. She felt that the credit file details for Mr M which Morses had 
obtained before loan 1 was approved demonstrated he was not managing his money. He 
had received a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 12 months before loan 1 in November 2015 
which did not appear to have been settled. And Mr M had received a default just a few 
months before the first loan was approved. So, our adjudicator thought that Morses should 
not have lent to Mr M at all.
Morses disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and have explained why below.
Morses says that it verified Mr Ms income. And its front sheet which is the record of the 
information Mr M told it and what Morses obtained before lending shows the details. I can 
see from that record that the inputted information varied depending on the loan applied for. 
For instance, rental costs of £110 or £120 a week were inputted onto the record for loans 3 
and 5 but not loans 1, 2 or 4. Whereas utility bill costs were on the information sheet for each 
loan and so that does not suggest that Mr M had moved out of his home in between loans as 
he continued to pay those costs. 
Added to which, as Morses had obtained a credit search report and that credit search did 
show that Mr M had outstanding debt issues, then I do find it unusual that Morses had 
recorded nothing as costs for other credit other than for loan 5. Whereas for loan 5, no sum 
was inputted for groceries. There seems to have been some fluidity in the figures and the 
amounts recorded.  And checking the application forms I can see that it was the same agent 
signing on behalf of Morses each time. Home credit is a product where the agent does 
attend at the applicants house, usually, and often gets to know the applicant. And so, I find 
these anomalies in the figures concerning. 
Starting with loan 1, and reviewing the credit file search results which Morses has sent to us, 
it is clear that Mr M had an outstanding CCJ from just a year before and had several 
delinquent accounts plus a recent defaulted account, and he was well above his limits in 
relation to his credit in general. The examples I use from that report are these entries  Current balances on all revolving credit accounts as a % of current limits  344% 
Total value of all current defaults £4122
Total value of all current delinquents £4122
So, with that information I would have expected Morses to have obtained additional 
information. Instead, the Morses agent appears to have accepted that Mr Ms outgoings for 
loan 1 were £80 which were £30 a week for utilities (no rent recorded) and £50 a week for 
groceries. I find this unlikely and so I think proceeding on that low level of information when 
Mr Ms credit file was poor does not lead me to think that proportionate or reasonable checks 
were carried out before lending.
Ideally I would have received additional information from Mr M so that I could see what 
Morses likely would have obtained in relation to expenditure figures had it done so before 
approving loan 1. I do not have any but I do not think its unreasonable for me to look to the 
other information that the agent obtained later in the lending relationship to give me an idea 
of what it was Mr M usually spent his money on. And from that I have deduced that he likely 
had rent of £110 or £120 a week, he likely had media costs and council tax, and possibly 
some childcare. And its likely he had other costs associated with the outstanding debts. 
So, I consider that the true disposable income figure was much less than the figure recorded 
at loan 1, and that with the credit results indicate to me that it was not right to lend to Mr M.
My view for loan 2 is much the same as that of loan 1 and for loan 3 although Mr Ms income 
had increased according to the records I have been given, so have his outgoings. And by 
loan 3 Mr M would have been paying for two Morses loans. 
Mr M applied for loan 3 when he was about two months into loan 2 and some of the new 
loan 3 was used to repay loan1. And by the time Mr M was applying for loan 3 he already 
had demonstrated a poor repayment history for loans 1 and 2, certainly an erratic one. And 
so, the payment history would not likely have led to Morses being confident in his ability to 
pay going forward especially considering the credit history it had about Mr M.
So, I do not think that Morses should have lent to Mr M for loans 1 to 3 based on the 
information it already knew. 
Reviewing the repayment history further, from around August 2017 to January 2018 Mr M 
was hardly paying anything at all for loans 2 and 3 combined. And so there ought to have 
been a  time when Morses assisted Mr M and not simply offered more loans. But in 
April 2018 Mr M was granted more loans. Morses records show that those two loans (2 and 
3) took 52 weeks to pay off (using other loans from Morses) whereas they were scheduled to 
take 33 weeks.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 and 5 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for about 17 months.  Mr Ms first loan was for £300 and he consistently asked for £300 (including at loan 
4) but the difference lay in the fact he needed the new loans to repay the older ones. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Mr M was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have been 
worsening.  
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mr Ms indebtedness was unsustainable. 
From loan 4 onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan a very short time after he 
settled his previous loan. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 5 was 
taken out around 18 months after Mr Ms first. Mr M had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. 
I think that Mr M lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about all Mr Ms and Morses should put things 
right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Mr M at all, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr M in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given any of the loans to Mr M.A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) For loans 1 to 3 Morses should amend Mr Ms credit file to remove any adverse payment 
information. 
The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ms credit file. If 
Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct that Morses Club PLC does 
as I have indicated in the putting things right part of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman