DRN-3761376
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
NewDay provided Mr B with an Aqua branded credit card in April 2016. The initial credit limit 
was £300. NewDay increased the credit limit on five occasions until it was set at £3,600 in 
July 2018. NewDay also provided Mr B with a £3,000 loan in February 2018. The loan term 
was 24 months with monthly repayments of around £159.
Mr B says that the credit limit increases, and loan shouldnt have been provided. He says he 
had several payday loans outstanding at the time.
NewDay says that before the credit card was provided it carried out a credit check and 
gathered information through its application process. It says Mr B was recorded as being 
employed with an annual salary of £15,000, other household income of £15,000 and £500 of 
unsecured debt. He had no arrears, defaults, adverse public records or payday loans. It says 
Mr B met its lending criteria and was provided with a credit card with initial credit limit of 
£300. NewDay says that Mr Bs credit limit was increased five times and that Mr B requested 
four of the increases. Before the increases were agreed it carried out checks on Mr Bs 
external credit as well as assessing his account management and based on this it found the 
increases to be affordable.
NewDay says that for Mr B to be eligible for an Aqua loan he had to have been maintaining 
his account well. It recorded Mr B as having a net monthly income of £1,700 and after 
deducting his expenses, it says the loan repayments were affordable.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think that NewDay had done 
anything wrong by providing the credit card and increasing the credit limit. He did however 
think that further checks should have taken place before the loan was provided and that had 
these happened, NewDay would have realised this lending wasnt sustainably affordable for 
Mr B. Therefore, he upheld this complaint in regard to the loan.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said its checks were proportionate and 
these didnt raise about Mr Bs financial situation in the months leading up to the loan being 
provided. It said that Mr B was asked about his income and this information was relied on. It 
didnt accept the loan was unaffordable and noted Mr B repaid it early.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this compliant. In regard to the credit card I concluded:
NewDay carried out reasonable checks before providing the credit card with the initial 
£300 credit limit. I thought this because it carried out a credit check which didnt raise 
any concerns and asked Mr B about his income. I thought it was reasonable for 
NewDay to rely on the information Mr B provided in his application at this stage and I 
didnt find this raised concerns about the credit limit being unaffordable.
Mr Bs credit limit was increased on five occasions. I understood that Mr B requested 
the limit increase on four occasions (not in June 2017). Before the credit limit 
increases were provided (whether they were reactive or proactive) NewDay was 
required to carry out proportionate checks to ensure the increased amount of lending 
was affordable for Mr B.
Mr B requested the first two credit limit increases, and these resulted in a credit limit 
of £1,100 in February 2017. Before the limit increases took place, Mr B was 
maintaining his repayments and generally paying more than the minimum required 
(on occasions substantially more). While his total credit balances had increased in 
December 2016 and he had an overlimit charge applied, he then brought the account 
within its limit. Based on what I saw I didnt find I could say that NewDay was wrong 
to agree the first two credit limit increases.
In June 2017, NewDay provided a proactive credit limit increase to £1,850. The 
month before, Mr B had exceeded his credit limit and his unsecured borrowings had 
increased to over £10,000. I thought this this should have raised concerns about 
Mr Bs increasing reliance on credit and that further checks should have taken place. 
I looked at the credit report provided by Mr B and while this showed he was using 
payday loans around the time of this increase - and he had some accounts that had a 
missed payment - I didnt think the report raised serious concerns at this time about 
Mr Bs ability to manage his finances. So, without further evidence I didnt find I could 
say NewDay was wrong to provide this credit limit increase.
In October 2017, Mr B requested a further credit limit increase. Before this he had 
been managing his account well and his total credit had reduced to around £3,200. I 
thought the information available to NewDay didnt raise concerns and so I didnt find 
that it was wrong to agree to the limit increase.
The final credit limit increase was in July 2018. This increased the limit to £3,600, 
twelve times the initial limit provided around 27 months earlier. By this time, Mr B had 
also taken out an Aqua loan for £3,000. Given the size of the increase (£1,000) and 
Mr Bs recent loan I thought that further checks should have taken place before this 
credit limit was agreed. Mr B hadnt provided copies of his bank statements from the 
time and so I couldnt confirm his income and expenses, but I considered the 
information in his credit report. This showed that Mr B was making use of payday 
loans and did miss payments on accounts. However, overall, he was managing his 
accounts without serious issue and without further evidence I didnt find I had enough 
to say that this increase shouldnt have been provided.
In regard to the loan, I concluded:
Mr B was provided with an Aqua loan in February 2018. At the time he had a £2,600 
credit limit on his Aqua credit card. His credit card account management didnt raise 
concerns that meant he shouldnt have been provided with further credit but NewDay 
was required to ensure that the additional lending was sustainably affordable taking 
into account Mr Bs existing commitments.
As part of the application process, Mr B said he was earning £1,700 a month. 
Without further information I couldnt say that this income figure was incorrect and 
based on the other information I had seen I didnt find it unreasonable that NewDay 
relied on this. Mr Bs credit commitments from the time showed he had accounts with 
communication suppliers as well as other credit commitments (including a loan, short 
term loan and credit card). The information provided by NewDay showed he had unsecured lending of around £3,500 in the month before the loan was provided and 
while this then increased, I accepted that information wouldnt have been available at 
the time. Based on the repayment information available in the credit report and 
without further details of Mr Bs committed expenditure I didnt find that I had enough 
evidence to say that further checks would have shown the loan to have been 
unaffordable.
Mr B responded saying that he would provide copies of his bank statements for the relevant 
time period. Unfortunately, these havent been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B hasnt provided copies of his bank statements from the time to give more details 
about his financial circumstances, my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
havent changed. That is that while I think further checks should have taken place before 
certain credit limit increases were applied, and the loan was provided, I dont find that I have 
enough evidence to show that had these happened, the lending would have been seen to 
have been unaffordable.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman