DRN-4130750
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr S applied for a credit card with Fluid. Fluid approved the application and 
gave Mr S a credit card with an initial credit limit of £1200.
Mr S complained that Fluid lent to him irresponsibly. He said if Fluid had carried out proper 
checks it would have seen that he wasnt able to repay the lending.
Fluid didnt uphold the complaint. It said the account had been provided correctly.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Fluid had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to land, the rules say that Fluid had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr S could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary but could include things 
like the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the cost of credit and the consumers 
individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when considering whats reasonable and proportionate.
Mr S declared an annual income of £42,000 when he applied for the loan. He also declared 
that he had access to other household income of £944 per month. Fluid carried out a credit 
check and found that Mr S had unsecured debt of around £1800. The credit check showed 
that Mr S had three defaulted accounts, the last one occurring 53 months before the 
application, and three country court judgements, the last one occurring 27 months before the 
application. The credit check showed no recent defaults or adverse information.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Fluid carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the credit card. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered 
by Fluid which wouldve given it cause for concern or necessitated further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Ive looked at the information gathered by Fluid. Having done so and having taken into 
account the relatively low credit limit on the card, Im satisfied that the checks which were 
completed showed that the lending was likely to be affordable for Mr S. I say this because 
the adverse information on Mr Ss credit file was historic and the checks didnt give Fluid any 
reason to think that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties or was unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan.
In conclusion I think the lending decision was fair. For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to 
uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman