DRN-4253093
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited handled the delivery of a 
replacement phone following a claim on his phone insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr A had a phone insurance policy that was underwritten by Assurant. In March 2023 he 
made a claim after his phone was damaged. Assurant accepted the claim and arranged for a 
delivery company to pick up his damaged phone and deliver the replacement. 
However when the courier arrived Mr A said he was rude and caused an altercation which 
eventually led to the courier leaving without collecting the phone. He complained to Assurant 
and a second delivery was arranged, however the courier didnt stop at Mr As house and 
the phone was not collected again.
A final delivery was arranged, but there were further issues with the courier. This resulted in 
the delivery company refusing to return to Mr As house. 
Due to this Mr A made a complaint. He said the service hed received from the delivery 
company had been very distressing and caused him inconvenience as hed had to take time 
away from work to deal with it. He said he wanted a replacement phone but didnt want to 
deal with the same company again.
Assurant said the only option was for Mr A to send his current phone to it through the post 
and it would then send a replacement once this was received. Mr A explained that this 
wasnt a suitable option. He said he was vulnerable due to being the victim of domestic 
abuse and needed constant use of the phone. He asked if there were any other ways he 
could exchange the phone but Assurant said that was the only option.
Following this Assurant sent a letter confirming it wasnt upholding Mr As complaint. Mr A 
was unhappy with this and said hed been forced to upgrade when he hadnt wanted to just 
to ensure he could get a replacement phone. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought that Assurant should have done more to find an alternative delivery solution based 
on Mr As vulnerability. And thought it should pay him £150 compensation to apologise for 
this. However she said as Mr A had now bought a replacement phone, the risk of being 
without a phone was no longer an issue so thought the option offered of sending it by post 
was suitable.
Assurant didnt agree that any compensation was due. It said it couldnt be held responsible 
for the delivery companys decision not to deliver to Mr As house. And it said hed only told it 
about his vulnerability after it had already offered him the alternative delivery solution. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators findings either. He said more compensation was due 
as the matter had caused him significant distress. And he still hadnt been given a 
replacement phone so he wanted that resolved too. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the videos Mr A has provided of his experience with the delivery drivers. The 
clips are short and dont provide a full view of everything that happened, so its difficult to get 
a full picture of the events. However I can see the interactions were clearly difficult and often 
unpleasant. Voices were raised by both sides and the drivers refuse to carry out the delivery. 
Its clear there was a breakdown in the communication an each occasion. And I dont doubt 
this was distressing for Mr A. 
Due to these interactions the delivery company refused to return to Mr As house. While this 
would have been frustrating for Mr A, this is a decision it is able to make based on the 
reports from its drivers. And Assurant werent able to make it deliver in the circumstances. 
So I cant hold it responsible for this.
Instead Assurant offered an alternative method for the phone to be delivered. Its explained 
that this was the only other option is had available. While this wasnt an unreasonable offer 
at the time, in response Mr A explained his situation, and why he couldnt be without a phone 
due to a difficult domestic situation. And from listening to the call and reading Assurants 
response following this, I dont think it did enough to take this into account. 
While its said it carried out a welfare check, I think given the circumstances Mr A described 
it should have done more. The matters Mr A discussed are personal and he may not have 
wished to discuss these with other third parties. And from what Ive seen Assurant took no 
action to make any adjustments to the options it offered based on what Mr A shared. And I 
dont think that was fair in the circumstances. Mr A suggested an exchange in store or there 
could have been different couriers Assurant may have considered, but no further options 
were explored. As Mr A explained he couldnt be without a phone due to safety concerns I 
think it should have at least explored other options. 
Due to this Mr A has said he had to upgrade his phone in order to get a quick replacement. 
This would have been inconvenient. And the personal circumstances he has shared would 
have made this more distressing. 
Because of this, I agree compensation is due. And I agree with our investigator that £150 is 
a fair amount in the circumstances and in line with our approach to similar cases.
I note Mr A has also said that hes still been unable to obtain a replacement phone. However 
as hes now got a new phone, I think Assurants offer to do the exchange via the post is a 
suitable one. As Mr A will no longer be without a phone due to using this method. So I wont 
ask it to do anything further in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman