DRN-2766762
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 28 February 2020, Mr C and Mrs C took out a single trip comprehensive travel insurance 
policy through a broker. They paid £152.60 for the policy, which included cover for a medical 
condition. They were due to travel abroad on 15 May 2020 until 14 June 2020. On 15 March 
2020, Mr C and Mrs C added an optional Trip Disruption Extension (TDE) to their policy. 
This cost £19.98 and meant the total price of the policy was £172.58.
However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr C and Mrs C werent able to travel as planned. 
So on 6 May 2020, they got in touch with Great Lakes to look into what their options were. 
Great Lakes said they could either transfer the cover dates to within 18 months of the 
original policy purchase date or they could cancel the policy and receive a pro-rata credit 
voucher for the remaining unused portion of cover. It said the voucher would be valid for 36 
months and the total offer was £56.52. Great Lakes didnt include a pro-rata refund for the 
TDE in its voucher offer.
Mr C and Mrs C werent happy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes offer was fair. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also explained 
that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  
for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 28 February 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to offer Mr C and Mrs C a credit voucher, which would be valid for 36 
months and which took into account the unused cover remaining on the policy. He asked   
Mr C and Mrs C for information about when their trip had been cancelled. Mr C said his 
travel providers had warned him that travel restrictions were likely on 13 March 2020 and 
confirmed it on 15 March 2020. But Mr C and Mrs C said everything had been done over the 
phone and they didnt have any evidence to show when the trip had been cancelled. So in 
these circumstances, the investigator felt it was fair for Great Lakes to calculate the voucher 
from the date the policy was cancelled. 
However, the investigator didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to exclude a 
pro-rata refund for the TDE from its offer. Thats because he said that once the policy had 
been cancelled, Great Lakes was no longer bearing any risk of a claim under this section of 
cover. And he noted Mr C and Mrs C hadnt made a claim under this section of the policy. So 
he felt the fair outcome to the complaint was for Great Lakes to include a pro-rata refund for 
the TDE in its credit voucher. Overall though, he didnt think the terms of the voucher were 
overly restrictive. So he didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay Mr C and Mrs C a full or 
cash refund of their premium.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations and it agreed to pay a pro-rata 
refund for the TDE. It calculated the additional amount due would be £7.28.
Mr C and Mrs C disagreed. They said they wouldnt accept the voucher, as they found it 
unacceptable. They didnt feel Great Lakes was fair or reasonable and they felt a lot of 
people had been let down in the same way. They felt Great Lakes had made a lot of money 
out of people whod been caught out by Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mrs C, I think Great Lakes offer is 
fair. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr C and Mrs Cs cooling-off period ended on 13 March 2020. But the 
policy wasnt cancelled until 6 May 2020. So their cancellation was outside of the   
14-day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its 
discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I think this 
policy term most likely relates to circumstances which are individual to the 
policyholder  such as bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I 
dont think the terms and conditions of Mr C and Mrs Cs contract with Great Lakes 
entitle them to any refund of premiums.  Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr C and 
Mrs C with a credit voucher for the unused portion of their cover is fair and 
reasonable. Great Lakes wouldve been on-risk for a 108-day period if the policy 
hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents the remaining, unused 40 days of 
cover, after the policy was cancelled, as Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk 
of Mr C and Mrs C making a claim after that point. I agree with the investigator that 
its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to include a pro-rata refund for the TDE within 
its overall refund offer, because I also dont think it bore any risk under this section of 
the policy once the contract was cancelled. Im pleased to see that Great Lakes 
accepted the investigators recommendations on this point. And having checked the 
calculation, it appears to be correct.
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes has calculated the policy cancellation date 
fairly. Mr C and Mrs C have told us their travel providers confirmed on 15 March 2020 
that their transport plans would be affected. And they said they then arranged 
refunds for their trip expenses before cancelling the policy. However, they said 
everything was arranged by phone, which means they cant provide any evidence to 
demonstrate the trip was cancelled around this point.  Ive also borne in mind that the 
TDE wasnt added to the policy until 15 March 2020, which would suggest that at that 
point, Mr C and Mrs C still intended to travel as planned. In the absence of any 
evidence to show the trip was cancelled around 15 March 2020, or in the weeks 
afterwards, I dont think I can fairly find that Great Lakes should backdate the 
cancellation date to calculate the refund due. So on the facts of this case, I think its 
fair that the date of policy cancellation is used to calculate the refund.
If Mr C and Mrs C are able to provide Great Lakes with evidence to show the trip was 
cancelled earlier though, its open to them to send this to Great Lakes for it to 
consider whether the refund should be backdated. If Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy 
with the outcome of any review of new evidence they send to Great Lakes, they may 
be able to bring a complaint to us about that issue alone.
In my view, a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. Great Lakes credit voucher is valid for 36 months, meaning that while 
travel plans are still uncertain, its likely Mr C and Mrs C will be able to put the 
voucher towards another policy in the future. So I dont think that the terms of the 
voucher are overly restrictive.
Having considered everything, while I know Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed in my 
decision, Im not telling Great Lakes to pay them a cash refund of their premiums. I think its 
offer to now include a pro-rata refund for the TDE in the total credit voucher offer is fair and 
reasonable.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Great Lakes offer is fair and 
reasonable.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to include a pro-rata refund for the TDE cover in its credit 
voucher refund offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman