DRN-2240159
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with what happened when he applied to Topaz Finance Limited (trading as 
Zephyr Homeloans) for a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage in July 2019. He says Zephyr 
Homeloans should refund the application and valuation fees to him.
What happened
Mr Ks mortgage broker undertook a decision in principle  which passed  on 4 July 2019, 
and then submitted the full application on 5 July 2019. It was an application to remortgage a 
BTL property Mr K already owned as part of his portfolio.
A valuation of the property was carried out on 7 August 2019 which said the property was 
being used as a House of Multiple Occupation (HMO); something which Mr K disputes.
The application was passed to the underwriting team for consideration and a full credit 
search was carried out, including using two previous names Mr K had gone by. The results 
of that showed two defaults in Mr Ks previous name  in March 2018 and September 2018  
and so the application was declined.
Unhappy with that Mr K complained. Zephyr Homeloans didnt uphold the complaint, saying 
the adverse credit didnt show up on the decision in principle as that was only based on 
Mr Ks current name, and when it found the defaults it couldnt proceed as its lending policy 
doesnt allow for any defaults in the preceding 24 months.
Our investigator said Zephyr Homeloans hadnt done anything wrong. Mr K didnt agree and 
so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome.
At the heart of this complaint seems to be a fundamental misunderstanding on Mr Ks part as 
to the relationships between the parties involved.
Mr K has referred to the mortgage broker as Zephyr Homeloans agent/broker, when thats 
not the case. The mortgage broker was Mr Ks agent/broker. The broker had no relationship 
with Zephyr Homeloans other than the fact that Zephyr Homeloans was the lender they had 
chosen to attempt to place Mr Ks business with. I cant hold Zephyr Homeloans liable for 
anything the broker may or may not have done. Equally just because Mr K may have told his 
broker something, doesnt mean that information was passed onto Zephyr Homeloans.
If the defaults had been disclosed by Mr Ks broker to Zephyr Homeloans, rather than it 
finding out about them at underwriting stage when it investigated Mr Ks previous names, 
then Zephyr Homeloans would have said upfront that this didnt meet its lending criteria.
Id expect a mortgage broker to check a lenders policy on previous defaults if theyre told 
about them by the applicant. The broker could either phone the lender to ask, or many 
lenders have their own websites for intermediaries to look at which contains the key parts of 
their lending policy. Zephyr Homeloans is a lender that has such a website and on that it 
says, No defaults registered within the last 24 months.
Its unfortunate that the defaults werent disclosed to Zephyr Homeloans, and as they werent 
it had no reason not to instruct the valuation. Once a valuation is carried out that fee is 
spent so cant be refunded to a consumer in the event of an unsuccessful application. And 
the application fee isnt paid to guarantee success, its paid to request that an application be 
considered. The outcome of the application isnt dependent on payment of the fee. An 
unsuccessful application still costs the lender money to assess, so it would completely unfair 
of me to order Zephyr Homeloans to refund that fee when it did nothing wrong here.
I can only consider any acts and/or omissions of Zephyr Homeloans in this decision. It may 
be the broker is at fault, but thats not my place to say as this is simply a decision about 
Zephyr Homeloans, not the other parties involved. And sometimes these things are no-ones 
fault; some applications are just declined despite no-one doing anything wrong. All I can say 
is that Im satisfied Zephyr Homeloans couldnt have known this application would be 
declined before it uncovered the defaults, so it did nothing wrong in continuing with the 
normal application process (thus charging Mr K fees) as it did.
I sympathise with Mr K for incurring fees for an unsuccessful application, but Im satisfied 
this wasnt down to any error or wrongdoing on the part of Zephyr Homeloans. It follows that 
Im not awarding any compensation to Mr K. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman