DRN-3247902
Complaint
Mr S has complained about an overdraft National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to him. He says the overdraft was irresponsibly provided.
Background
NatWest provided Mr S with a student overdraft for £100 in September 2015 the limit on the 
facility was increased to £500 in October 2015 and then £2,000.00 in January 2016. The 
overdraft was to be interest and fee free for at least the duration of Mr S studies provided he 
stayed within his limit.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and NatWest had told us. And he thought 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr S complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
could afford to repay before providing him with an overdraft and his limit increases. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest says it agreed to Mr S application after it carried out a credit search and obtained 
some information about his income and expenditure. On the other hand, Mr S says NatWest 
didnt do anything at all before agreeing to lend to him.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and NatWest have said. 
I have to start by saying that Mr S wouldnt have had to pay any interest or charges for some 
time provided that he kept within his overdraft limit. I think this is important context to bear in 
mind in this particular case. 
I know Mr S says that no checks were carried out. But I can see that Mr S was asked for 
some information on his income and expenditure. NatWest has also provided a record of 
what its credit checks showed too. And Im satisfied that the credit search NatWest carried 
out showed Mr S had two defaulted accounts and a County Court Judgement issued against 
him, which suggested hed had previous difficulties repaying credit. So I can understand why 
Mr S feels NatWest shouldnt have lent to him.
That said, Im mindful of what the credit search carried out suggested about Mr S 
circumstances at the time and that he was entering full time education. In these 
circumstances, where he was unlikely to earn for some time, its difficult for me to agree that 
agreeing this overdraft was wholly unreasonable given it would provide him with some 
breathing space and was a far better alternative to any other alternative sources of credit   
Mr S would more likely than not have turned to.  
So overall while I do have some concerns that NatWest doesnt appear to have placed much 
weight on Mr S credit file at the time, bearing in mind the circumstances and the type of 
facility it agreed to, I dont think that NatWest treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with an interest free overdraft. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman