DRN-4074321
The complaint
Miss B complains about Bluesky Wealth Management Limited (Bluesky). The advice was 
given by Pensions Matter Ltd (PML) which was a trading name of Bluesky. The advice was 
to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. Miss B says the advice was unsuitable for her, and she believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Miss B approached PML in 2018 about her pension and retirement needs. She made an 
enquiry via its website. I understand Miss B contacted it as she wanted advice about 
possibly taking some funds from her pension. The advice was given over the telephone and 
online. 
Miss B provided some information via some online forms. She also spoke with PML. The 
information gathered was limited, but it did show that she was aged 55 and employed. I 
understand Miss B indicated that she wanted to release some funds to support her partner 
who was ill and would need hospital treatment in the near future. She had no other savings 
or investments at the time. 
PML carried out an assessment of Miss Bs attitude to risk, which it said was cautious. 
On 11 January 2018, PML advised Miss B to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds. The suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were that she wanted to:
Release the maximum tax free cash amount from her pension.
Make an additional ad hoc income withdrawal.
She needed to do this as her partner wasnt well and she thought she would benefit 
from having access to the funds now rather than later.
Miss B had no other way of obtaining these funds.
The transfer proceeded in January 2018 and Miss B transferred around £30,000 into a new 
personal pension with a third party. She took tax free cash of around £7,500 and an 
immediate withdrawal of £8,000. I understand she has withdrawn all of the pension value 
now.
Miss B complained in 2022 to Bluesky about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said 
that PML didnt act in her best interests when it advised her to transfer, she wasnt properly 
informed of the DB scheme benefits she gave up, she didnt have a genuine need to access 
her pension at the time and she wasnt looking to take any risk.  
Bluesky didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. It said that Miss B required access to some tax 
free cash and had no alternatives other than using her pension. It said she said she needed 
the funds to care for her ill partner. The loss of guarantees was pointed out to her and the 
website explains the risks of pension transfers in full. Bluesky thinks she was provided with 
suitable advice that met her objectives at the time. 
Miss B referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Bluesky pay compensation. He said PML didnt do the required analysis 
to enable it to give proper advice. That said, he still thought that, given Miss Bs low attitude 
to risk, the personal pension was likely to provide Miss B with a significantly lower income in 
retirement than the DB scheme benefits she gave up. And he didnt agree that Miss B had a 
genuine need to access her tax free cash, she didnt necessarily need funds to pay for her 
partners care. Overall, he didnt think the advice was suitable for Miss B or in her best 
interests. 
Bluesky didnt respond to the Investigators opinion. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Bluesky's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Bluesky 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Miss Bs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability Bluesky hasnt been able to show that PML carried out a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS) (as it was required to do by the regulator) showing how much Miss Bs pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme. It 
has indicated that it may have not kept this, but I cant see that any of the point of sale 
documents show any information from a TVAS or refer to one being done. And so, Im not 
persuaded that PML did this analysis. This is a serious failing on PMLs part.
So, Ive looked at what was produced at the time of sale to see if the DB transfer was 
financially viable. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Miss B was aged 55 at the time of the advice and I understand that she could take the 
benefit from the DB scheme at her age 65. Although it didnt calculate the critical yields PML 
outlined what annual income could be provided from a drawdown arrangement after the tax 
free cash and the withdrawal had been taken. It said based on a 3% growth rate the new 
pension would likely provide annual income of £653 and with a 6% growth rate this would be 
£1,070. This is compared with an index-linked annual pension of £1,851.19 and added lump 
sum of £5,541.29 that the DB scheme would provide. This isnt a direct comparison but PML 
acknowledged at the time that This income would not be index lined and would be 
significantly less compared to the income you would receive from the [DB scheme] 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Miss Bs cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Miss Bs attitude to risk was assessed as cautious she had very little other assets that would 
give her any capacity to take some risk. And I think her partners illness may have impacted 
on their financial security, so I also dont think Miss B had a high capacity to take risk. 
There would be little point in Miss B giving up the guarantees available to her through her 
DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
given what Ive seen I think Miss B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Miss Bs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Bluesky 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needsThe crux of this complaint is that Bluesky says that Miss B wanted to transfer her DB 
scheme benefits to provide some cash to help her to look after her partner who was unwell. 
Miss B now says that this wasnt a pressing need and some of the money was spent on 
home improvement and other non urgent matters. 
Its not disputed that Miss Bs partner was unwell. But, in order for a DB transfer to be 
suitable the need for further funds must be pressing and the DB pension transfer should be 
the best way, and maybe the only way, for a consumer to obtain the funds. This is due to the 
lower retirement income Miss B will receive after the transfer. I would expect all of these 
factors to be fully investigated and documented. And it must be clear that this information 
was provided to Miss B in a way that she could understand. 
But I dont think this happened here. PML seems to have largely accepted what Miss B said 
about wanting the money without challenge. Perhaps because of this, its not demonstrated 
that there was a real need for this. Rather than it being something that she wanted to do, or 
thought was a good idea. 
It was documented that Miss B had no other way of raising the funds she wanted. But there 
is no detail about why this was. It could be that her situation was such that she couldnt, for 
example, borrow elsewhere. But this isnt shown and given what I know about Miss Bs 
circumstances this doesnt seem likely. 
All of the point of sale documents lead me to conclude that Miss B contacted PML with a 
problem or a need, and what she thought was a way to change this. But she didnt realise 
that this would financially disadvantage her. And PML did very little here to properly advise 
her of the negative consequences of this, or find other ways to meet her needs that lessened 
the financial impact on her 
So, I dont think Miss B required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her tax free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds invested until a later date. 
I also cant see evidence that Miss B had a strong need for a variable income throughout her 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. 
And Im satisfied that the DB scheme would have been best placed to meet Miss Bs 
retirement needs. This is because she was entitled to take £5,541.29 as tax free cash from 
the DB scheme and she could have received an income of £1,851 per year. 
And whilst this may not have met all of her needs, she would also have the state pension. 
And the DB scheme benefits were guaranteed and increasing, and Ive not seen a 
persuasive reason why she should have given them up. I dont think it was in her best 
interests to have advised her to do this. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Miss B. And this is particularly 
relevant as she wasnt married to her partner, and so she may not have been able to 
nominate her DB scheme provision to them in the way I can see that she did with the 
personal pension. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Miss B might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Miss B about what was best for her retirement provisions. And 
I cant see that this subject was discussed at all  aside from the general information about 
this in the suitability letter. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Miss B. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I cant see that Miss B expressed a desire for control over her pension benefits. And in any 
event Miss B was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that she had an interest in or 
the knowledge to be able to manage her pension funds on her own. So, any increased 
control wasnt an objective for Miss B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from her DB scheme.
The funding of her employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Miss B should 
have genuinely been concerned about the security of her pension. 
Unsuitable investments
PML recommended that Miss B invest in a cautious managed fund. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Miss B, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Miss B should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and access to some of her pension fund would have sounded 
like attractive features to Miss B. But PML wasnt there to just transact what Miss B might 
have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Miss B needed 
and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss B was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Miss B was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Miss B shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to obtain some funds, this wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think PML shouldve advised Miss B to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss B would've gone ahead anyway, against PMLs 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against PMLs advice. I say this because Miss B was an 
inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority 
of her retirement provision. So, if PML had provided her with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she 
wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Miss Bs need for funds was so great that she wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she had sought out, didnt 
think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. If PML had explained the advice more 
fully, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Miss B would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Bluesky should compensate Miss B for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss B would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Bluesky must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Miss B has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Miss Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Bluesky should:
calculate and offer Miss B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss B receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss B accepts Blueskys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss B for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, 
in line with DISP App 4, Bluesky may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Miss Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Miss B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited pays Miss B the balance.
If Miss B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman