DRN-2129749
The complaint
Mrs C complains about advice given by Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) to invest £20,000.
What happened
In 2005, Barclays advised Mrs C to invest £20,000 into a third-party bond guaranteed fund, 
leaving £16,200 on deposit. Those acting on Mrs Cs behalf say she was an inexperienced 
investor and the fund exposed her to too much risk, alternative investments were not 
considered, the capital return was misleading and the key facts document should have been 
provided earlier.
Barclays say that the investment was suitable for Mrs C as an inexperienced investor, but 
they accept that she was advised to invest too much. Barclays consider that investment of 
50% of available funds would have been appropriate. Theyve offered to compensate Mrs C 
on the additional £2000 invested by comparison with the fixed rate bond comparator plus 
interest to the date of the offer.
Initially our investigator upheld the complaint and asked Barclays to provide more 
compensation. Upon reviewing the matter, our investigator took into account that Mrs C had 
discussed future care needs, the fund met her requirements for generating growth, she had 
been provided with information about the product and alternative products had been 
discussed at the time. On balance, our investigator thought Barclays offer was fair and 
reasonable, so he didnt ask them to do anything more.
Mrs C disagrees with the view. Those acting on her behalf say that Barclays likely had 
guidelines recommending that cautious investors should only invest 40% of their funds, so 
redress ought to be compensated on £3600.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Cs circumstances at the time. Mrs C had recently sold her property and 
had moved to assisted accommodation. Mrs C had a disposable net monthly income and 
was looking for an investment to achieve a return on her funds that was better than a deposit 
account. 
Mrs C was risk assessed as a cautious investor, in that she was willing to take some level of 
risk but was only willing to invest in investments which were unlikely to fall substantially by 
the end of the investment period. She was looking to grow her funds as best as possible 
against that requirement and was not looking for additional income. Mrs C didnt need 
access to the invested funds and had no planned expenditure. She understood there was a 
five-year period of investment. The documents from the time record that provision for long 
term care was discussed, but Mrs C was content that she had moved to assisted 
accommodation and didnt wish to make further provision at this stage. National Savings 
were discussed, but were discounted by Mrs C as she thought the rates were poor. 
Barclays recommended investing into a managed fund containing a split of assets with 
around 40-45% being in equities. The capital sum was guaranteed at the five-year 
anniversary point, which was attractive to Mrs C, as it gave her peace of mind and she was 
aware that early surrender penalties could apply if it was cashed in earlier.
Having considered Mrs Cs particular circumstances, I dont think the recommendation 
exposed her to a higher level of risk than she wanted to take. The objective was capital 
growth with a guarantee of return of the original payment less withdrawals at the five-year 
anniversary. Mrs C therefore had some capital protection with an opportunity for growth in 
line with her requirements. Mrs C had access to emergency funds and could access the 
funds within the investment in that five-year period if she wished to do so. 
When reviewing this complaint, Barclays conceded that Mrs C was advised to invest too 
much. Theyve suggested that £18,000 should have been invested instead of £20,000. 
Putting things right
Those acting on behalf of Mrs C say the advice given about the level of cash reserve was 
inconsistent with Barclays internal guidance at the time, so redress should be on £3,600 not 
£2,000. I havent seen anything to support set guidelines and Barclays have been unable to 
locate any guidance from 2005 due to the passage of time. The general guidance by 2006 
was that those under 75 years of age had to retain a minimum cash reserve of £5000 or not 
less than three times their net monthly income. Mrs C met these criteria but I dont think it 
takes matters further, as its already been agreed that she was advised to invest too much. 
On balance, I think Barclays offer to compensate Mrs C on £2000 is reasonable. That would 
place her in the position as if half of her available funds had been invested. I think the use of 
the fixed rate bond comparator was fair and reasonable as the £2000 would have been held 
on deposit. Barclays recalculated interest to the date of the offer, arriving at total 
compensation of £893.81. I think that was fair, so I wont be asking Barclays to do anything 
more. I also note that Barclays paid Mrs C £100 for the delay in handling the complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint as I consider that Barclays offer of £893.81 was fair and 
reasonable. I direct that it is now paid to Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman