DRN-3375170
The complaint
The representative of the late Mr Cs estate (Mrs C) complains about the sale of a personal 
accident policy by SGA Consultancy Group Limited.
What happened
Mr C took out a personal accident policy through SGA. 
Mr C sadly passed away a few days later. Mrs C complained to SGA about the sale of the 
policy, as the cover only paid benefit on death if this was the result of an accident. SGA 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold, and so Mrs C brought a complaint to this service. 
She was also unhappy about the service SGA had provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt agree with Mrs C that 
the policy had been mis-sold to Mr C. He also thought Mrs Cs concerns about SGAs 
service didnt fall within our jurisdiction.
Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs representative says that Mr C thought the policy provided life insurance, and would 
therefore make a payment upon his death. She says he didnt mention anything about the 
policy only covering him in the event of an accident.
The policy was taken out on a non-advised basis. That meant SGA didnt need to ensure 
that the policy was suitable for Mr C. However, it was still required to explain how the policy 
worked, so that he could make an informed decision as to whether or not he wanted the 
cover. 
Ive listened to the sales call between Mr C and SGA. Mr C asked if it was life insurance. The 
adviser explained that the policy covered him for broken bones, total permanent disability, 
accidental permanent injury, accidental death, UK hospital stays and funeral benefit. The 
adviser then went into further detail about those benefits. Mr C explained he had been given 
six years to live, and so a discussion took place around the funeral benefit. Mr C then 
decided to go ahead with the policy.
Im therefore satisfied that SGA explained how the policy worked, and Mr C wasnt misled 
about the benefits under the policy.
Mrs Cs representative says that Mr C had made many attempts to previously obtain life 
insurance, but hadnt been able to do so. As Mrs Cs representative is aware, the reason for 
that was because of Mr Cs health. However, this policy wasnt medically underwritten, and 
therefore the insurer didnt need to know about Mr Cs health. Thats because the majority of 
the benefits would only be payable in the event of an accident. The only eligibility 
requirements for the policy were that Mr C needed to be between the ages of 18 and 60 and 
a UK resident.
Mrs Cs representative makes the point that personal accident policies can be taken out for 
as little as £5-£10 a month. Its correct that the more basic accidental death policies can be 
around this price. However, this policy offered more than accidental death cover, and 
therefore it was priced accordingly by the insurer. 
I therefore dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs C has also raised concerns about the way in which the complaint was handled by SGA. 
Shes unhappy that the final response was sent to her instead of her representative and with 
the timing of SGAs response to the complaint. Shes also unhappy that SGA required next 
of kin documents before allowing her to complain.
There are certain circumstances where I can consider concerns about a business complaint 
handling. However, I havent considered whether these would apply here. Thats because I 
dont have the power to make an award for any inconvenience caused directly to Mrs C. 
Thats because Mrs C isnt an eligible complainant under our rules, shes a representative of 
the eligible complainant, Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint relating to the sale of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman