DRN-3823403
The complaint
Mr Js complained, on behalf of his late wife, Mrs Js estate, that Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited didnt tell him Mrs Js life insurance policy included a terminal illness benefit.  And 
that, when a retrospective claim was made, it was declined.
What happened
Mrs J bought a life policy from Aviva in 2009.  It provided £200,000 worth of cover. And it 
had a term of 12 years, so expired in May 2021.
The policy also provided a terminal illness benefit.  This meant that, if Mrs J was diagnosed 
with a terminal illness, as defined in the policy, the sum assured could be paid to her during 
her lifetime.
In September 2017, Mrs J was diagnosed with cancer and started a course of treatment.   
Mr J contacted Aviva at this time to confirm what policies she held with Aviva and what 
claims might be submitted.  Aviva advised him Mrs J held the life policy (which didnt include 
critical illness cover) and two pension policies.
Unfortunately, Mrs J didnt react well to the drugs she was initially given.  Her treatment was 
changed at the end of 2017 and Mrs J responded much better to the new drugs. 
Mrs J survived until the policy was due to expire in May 2021.  So she made enquiries about 
extending the term.  Aviva told her the policy didnt provide for this.  So the policy expired as 
scheduled.  
Because of concerns about paying off the mortgage which the policy had been linked to, a 
family member arranged to take the mortgage over.  While they were making these 
arrangements, it was suggested that Mrs Js policy might include a terminal illness benefit.
The family member contacted Aviva on Mrs Js behalf to complain Mr J hadnt been told 
about the terminal illness benefit when hed contacted them in 2017.  They asked Aviva to 
consider a terminal illness claim retrospectively.
Aviva apologised for not providing this information in 2017 and paid Mrs J £500 
compensation.  And they agreed to consider a retrospective claim.
Mrs J sadly passed away in April 2022.  Aviva declined the retrospective claim the following 
month. They explained that, although Mrs J was very ill in late 2017, their Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO) didnt agree with her oncologists opinion that Mrs Js life expectancy at that 
point was about 12 months.  
The CMO said at that point it would be measured in years.  Aviva also said there were 
further treatment options available to Mrs J  so they would have postponed considering a 
claim at that time while they assessed her response to those treatments.  And, while they 
considered whether a valid claim could have been made after 2017, they noted Mrs Js 
condition was relatively stable until late 2021  at which time the cover had expired.
Mr J complained to Aviva about the claim decision.  Aviva investigated the complaint, but 
didnt change their decision.  So Mr J brought the estates complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered it and concluded Aviva didnt need to do any more to resolve the 
complaint.  She said Aviva had fairly considered the claim against the criteria set out in the 
policy for a terminal illness claim.  
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Js made on behalf of Mrs Js estate.  I 
hope it will help if I explain why.
Ive started by considering the complaint that Aviva didnt tell Mr J there was a terminal 
illness benefit on the policy when he contacted them in 2017.  Ive no evidence of exactly 
what questions were asked, so I cant comment on the accuracy of the information given.  
But Ive noted Aviva accepted they should have considered whether Mrs J could make a 
terminal illness claim in 2017.
When we consider what businesses need to do to put something right, we look to see if they 
can put their customer back in the position they would have been had nothing gone wrong.  I 
think that, by considering the claim retrospectively, Aviva have done that.  And they paid  
Mrs J £500 compensation for not doing that in 2017.  I dont think they need to do any more.  
In relation to the claim, Ive considered the relevant policy terms.  A terminal illness is 
defined as:
an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where an attending medical 
Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer believe the life assured's life expectancy to be no 
greater than 12 months.
The policy goes on to say:
Terminal illness benefit is payable if the life assured is first diagnosed with or is suffering 
from a terminal illness:
after the risk date; and
at least 18 months before the expiry date.
Mrs Js policy expired in May 2021.  So the latest she could have met the definition was 
November 2019.
Mrs J was first diagnosed well before this date.  And I appreciate from the descriptions Mr J 
has given us that she was very ill in the months immediately following that.  He  and Ive no 
doubt the rest of his family  was clearly extremely distressed at what he witnessed.
But the policy also sets out what Aviva will do before a claim is settled.  It says:
We do not have to make any payments or waive the payment of any premium until we 
receive your policy schedule and such proof as we decide that:
the event resulting in the claim has happened;the person claiming payment has a right to it; and
the stated date of birth of the life assured is correct;
together with sight of the life assured's medical records where appropriate and such 
further evidence and information, if any, as we decide is appropriate. [my emphasis].
Im satisfied from this that, however ill Mrs J was in 2017, Aviva would have investigated 
before paying out.  So what they did in 2021 was consistent with that approach and in line 
with the policy terms.  In particular, Ive noted the oncologists notes record that, once the 
drugs used to treat Mrs J were changed at the start of 2018, she responded well to the 
treatment.  And that Avivas CMO didnt agree with Mrs Js oncologist that her life 
expectancy met the criteria for a claim because the CMO said that patients given the drugs 
had their life expectancy measured in years, rather than months.
So I think Avivas conclusion that Mrs J didnt meet the criteria to make a terminal illness 
claim in 2017 was reasonable.  
And I can see that Aviva also checked to see if Mrs J would have met them at any point 
before November 2019  the time limit for making a terminal illness claim.  The medical 
notes they reviewed for this period indicate Mrs J was regularly monitored but that she was 
stable.  
That means I think Avivas decision Mrs J didnt fulfil the criteria to make a claim at any time 
when the terminal illness benefit was available was reasonable.  And for that reason I dont 
think they need to do any more to resolve the complaint Mr Js made on behalf of Mrs Js 
estate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Js made on behalf of  
Mrs Js estate about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman