DRN-4076174
The complaint
S, a limited company, complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim under 
their professional indemnity insurance policy. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
Whilst S are represented by their insurance broker, I will refer to all submissions having been 
made by S for ease of reading.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only 
summarise the key events here.
In 2017, S entered into a contract with a third party (TP) to install an air conditioning system 
and provide ongoing servicing and maintenance. 
In 2019, the TP raised concerns over the systems operation. There had been some faults 
which had required repairing. And the TP didnt think the system itself was suitable for the 
amount of people it needed to supply fresh air to, so they said it wasnt fit for purpose. 
This led to what S considered to be a breakdown of the relationship, so they terminated the 
service and maintenance contract and asked TP to appoint their own contractor to take over.
In 2021, S received a letter of claim from TP saying they were taking legal action against 
them. So S made a claim to AXA under their insurance policy for the legal costs of their 
defence.
AXA declined the claim. It said theres no cover under the policy for defective workmanship. 
S raised a complaint. They said the allegations by TP are for defective design/specification, 
which they believe to be within the policy cover.
AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim on the basis of how the claim was 
presented in the pleadings. It said TP may attempt to amend the pleadings to include a claim 
for defective design, but it could only consider the claim as presented. 
In addition, AXA listed four exclusions that may potentially apply to the claim. And, it said S 
was aware of the claim circumstance before the policy period of May 2020 to May 2021, so 
the prior claims exclusion would also apply here.
S brought the complaint to our service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. She said whilst 
there was an element of defective design in TPs claim, the policy exclusion for defective 
workmanship would mean theres no cover under the policy. She said she wasnt 
considering the four potential exclusions listed by AXA, as it didnt appear the claim had 
been declined on this basis. But she did think the prior claims exclusion applied as S hadnt 
provided a fair presentation of the risk at renewal in May 2020. 
S disagreed with our Investigator. They said TPs claim for defective workmanship doesnt 
have merit and that TP was in breach of contract first, for having another contractor work on 
the system. In addition, they said the policy has been mis-sold as its not fit for purpose. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued the following provisional decision.
My first provisional decision
Ive been provided with a copy of AXAs professional indemnity design & construct 
insurance policy dated August 2016 which Im told is the relevant terms and conditions for 
this claim. Ive reviewed this, alongside the evidence from both parties, and Ill set out my 
findings below.
Defective workmanship exclusion
The policy terms and conditions say:
What is covered
We will cover you for any claim and defence costs that arise from the conduct of your 
professional business, where the claim is first made against you and notified to us 
during the period of insurance, arising from1) a breach of professional duty.
The policy defines professional business as:
Performance by you or on your behalf of the following, provided such activities are 
undertaken by or under the supervision of a qualified professional1) design of or 
specification for any buildings or structure.
  
The policy has the following exclusion:
Defective workmanship or material exclusion
We will not cover any claim arising directly or indirectly from defective workmanship 
or defective materials or the failure by you to supervise or inspect any work.
There is a dispute over whether the TPs claim is for defective design or defective 
workmanship. To be clear, its not my role to determine which one it is. Instead, its for me to 
decide whether it was fair for AXA, based on the information it held at the time, to conclude 
that the TPs claim is for defective workmanship and to decline the claim under the policy 
terms on that basis.
The letter of claim sets out the basis of TPs allegations as follows:
S has acted in breach of the contract by selling and installing an air conditioning 
system that is not of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. S also cancelled [TPs] 
contract for maintenance without three months written notice, as required by [the 
contract].
The letter sets out the evidence TP relies upon to show the following failings by S:
A faulty four-way reversing value needing replacing
Field pipework contained a foreign body which caused a blockage in the system
Poor heating and cooling performance which led to a replacement of the outdoor unit
The equipment was only able to provide fresh air for, at most, 46 people which was less than required, meaning the system was not fit for purpose.
Whilst I can understand how AXA has concluded that some of TPs claim against S amounts 
to defective workmanship, there is very clearly some elements that amount to defective 
design/specification which falls within the professional business that S is insured for. In 
particular, the allegation that the system was not fit for purpose as it didnt service the 
amount of people it needed to is specifically directed towards S choice of equipment i.e. 
their design of/specification for the air conditioning system. 
As such, I think there is a proportion of this claim that the defective workmanship exclusion 
doesnt fairly apply to. So AXA shouldve considered these elements of the claim further 
under the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Prior claims exclusion
In its final response letter, AXA says that S were aware of the claim circumstance in 
September 2019 at the latest. But S only notified AXA of the claim within the policy period of 
May 2020 to May 2021. As such, it says the prior claims exclusion would apply. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, and I can only find a previous claims exclusion 
 which I assume is what AXA is referring to here. It says:
Previous claims exclusion
We will not cover any claim
1. that has been notified under any other policy before the start of this policy
2. that you were aware of or should have been aware of before the start of this 
policy.
The policy defines claim as:
Any verbal or written demand, notice or communication from a third party
1. making an assertion for legal remedy or any other form of compensation or 
remedy
2. containing reference to, or serving notice of, intent to start legal proceedings
3. invoking any pre-action protocol as set under the Civil Procedure Rules and/or
4. referring to arbitration, adjudication or complaint proceedings.
Im aware that this policy has been in place with AXA since at least May 2019. So even if Im 
persuaded that a claim arose in September 2019  and Im not sure I am given the definition 
of claim  it isnt before the policy started. 
AXA say by September 2019, S were reasonably aware of a claim circumstance. This is a 
different definition and different policy condition altogether, which says:
Claim circumstance condition
You must tell us in writing as soon as possible within the period of insurance about 
claim circumstances.
The policy defines claim circumstance(s) as:
Any incident, occurrence, fact, matter or act that you become aware of that might 
reasonably give rise to a claim.
The policy defines period of insurance as:Period shown in your schedule, inclusive of both the stated start date and end date.
Whilst Im not necessarily persuaded that a claim had arisen in September 2019, I am 
satisfied a claim circumstance had. I say this because, by this time, S were on notice TP 
were unhappy with the air conditioning system and had received correspondence from TP 
which said:
Currently our system is not fit for purpose and if I believe we have a case we will be 
making a claim rest assured, and if necessary, we will issue court proceedings. 
As such, I think S ought reasonably to have known at this point that a situation had arisen 
which might give rise to a claim under this policy. They had an obligation to report this to 
AXA during the period of insurance which, at that time, was May 2019 to May 2020. But they 
didnt notify AXA until the following period of insurance  May 2020 to May 2021. So they 
havent complied with the claim circumstance condition of the policy. 
Our Investigator says S didnt make a fair presentation of the risk to AXA on their renewal in 
May 2020. This may be the case, but as Im satisfied the claim can be declined on the basis 
of the claim circumstance condition, I dont need to make a finding on whether S fulfilled their 
duty to make a fair presentation under the non-disclosure and misrepresentation condition of 
the policy.  
Potential exclusions
And finally, AXA says in its final response that there are four other potential exclusions which 
may apply. It says:
In addition we would also note the following exclusions would also potentially apply 
here:
The fitness for purpose exclusion
The contractual liability exclusion
The property damage exclusion
The products exclusion
If AXA intended to rely on these exclusions in declining S claim, it wouldve needed to have 
done so when it was considering cover along with providing an explanation of why these 
exclusions apply to the circumstances of S claim. 
Our service isnt a claims handler. So its not for me to decide whether these exclusions 
apply. And as AXA hasnt appeared to apply them, I wont be considering the fair and 
reasonableness of doing so.
Summary
Whilst Im persuaded that there is an element of this claim which arises from defective 
design/specification, Im satisfied that the claim has been fairly excluded on the basis that 
the claim circumstance condition under the policy has not been met. 
I dont think AXA has been particularly clear or accurate in its reasons to decline the claim. 
But as Ive explained in my reasoning above, the outcome that the claim isnt covered 
remains the same. So S is in the same position that they wouldve been had AXA done 
everything correctly. That said I think the unclear, and at times confusing, reasons for declining the claim 
wouldve caused S some confusion. For example, referring to a prior claims exclusion 
when there isnt one, and applying the reasoning for another condition altogether, as well as 
referring to exclusions which may or may not apply to the claim hasnt been helpful in 
enabling S to understand why their claim doesnt meet the policy terms. I have no doubt this 
wouldve caused some inconvenience. For this reason, Im inclined to award compensation 
of £200 in recognition of the impact of this poor claims handling.
I appreciate S will be disappointed by my decision and I sympathise with the financial 
implications this has had on their business. Ive considered their comments that TPs claim 
holds no merit, and that TP were in breach of contract first. But whilst that may be true, the 
merits of TPs claim arent in question here  its whether or not the policy will cover the legal 
costs of defending this claim. And for the reasons Ive explained, on the information I have, 
Im satisfied AXAs overall decision to decline the claim was fair.
Responses to my first provisional decision
S didnt agree with my provisional decision. Ive summarised their key points as follows:
S doesnt think they can be held responsible for defective workmanship on the basis 
that: 
othe four-way value was replaced under the manufacturers warranty, 
othe foreign body which caused a blockage was found after two other 
contractors had worked on the pipework, 
othe outdoor unit was replaced free of charge due to a manufacturers fault.
S obtained an independent expert report which concluded that the system is 
sufficient for the amount of people it needed to supply fresh air to. So they dont think 
there are issues with their design.
S heard nothing further from TP about issuing court proceedings after September 
2019, so they assumed it was an empty threat. They question whether they should 
report such instances every time they receive a comment like this as insurers would 
have a lot of unfounded reports.
S feels AXA are using every loophole clause possible to get out of covering their 
claim.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
I subsequently issued a second provisional decision.
My second provisional decision
Ive considered the points S have raised above.
Points one and two relate solely to the merits of TPs claim against S which, as Ive already 
explained, isnt what Im looking into. Ive found that the claim S needed to defend was for 
defective workmanship and defective design  its not relevant to my investigation whether or 
not these were in fact defective.
In response to points three and four, S is expected to comply with the terms and conditions 
of their policy as this is the contract they have in place with AXA. The policy specifically says 
that S must notify AXA in writing of a claim circumstance within the period of insurance. And Im satisfied the threat of legal proceedings (whether empty or not) amounted a claim 
circumstance. 
However, on a further review of the policy wording, theres another condition which I think is 
relevant here. 
Claim circumstance condition
Ive already explained that I think TPs email of September 2019 amounted to a claim 
circumstance which S didnt report to AXA within the relevant period of insurance. But I cant 
see that AXA have considered the policy clause:
Breach of claim notification condition or claim circumstance condition
If you do not comply with the claim notification condition or claim circumstance 
condition and where the claim or claim circumstance would otherwise be covered by 
this policy, we will not refuse to pay the claim provided:
1. you tell us in writing about the claim or claim circumstance during the period of 
insurance and;
2. you can satisfy us that you had no intention to deceive or mislead.
If, however, this affects our ability to handle or settle a claim or claim circumstance, 
we will reduce the amount we pay to the figure we reasonably believe would have 
been payable had our ability to handle or settle it not been affected. This does not 
affect any other condition in this policy.
This policy condition is in line with the FCAs Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) and our approach to claims involving late notification where wed expect an insurer 
to demonstrate that it has been prejudiced by the breach of condition. 
As such, I require that AXA provide evidence of what, if any, detriment it has suffered as a 
result of the claim being notified within the 2020  2021 policy period, taking into account 
that S had continuous cover throughout.
Non-disclosure and misrepresentation condition 
Our investigator has highlighted that S may also be in breach of another policy condition as 
follows:
Non-disclosure and misrepresentation condition
You have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk which you wish to insure. This 
applies prior to the start of your policy, if any variation is required during the period of 
insurance and prior to each renewal. 
The policy goes on to explain what will happen if there is a failure to make a fair presentation 
of the risk and these remedies are in line with the Insurance Act 2015 which applies here. 
The Insurance Act 2015 says a commercial policyholder has a duty to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer. This means they have to disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; orenough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
Arguably, a threat of legal proceedings is a material fact that shouldve been disclosed at 
renewal. And the remedy that AXA has for this failure will be dependent on whether the non-
disclosure is considered to be deliberate or non-deliberate. 
Should AXA wish to rely on this condition and determine the non-disclosure as deliberate, Id 
need to see what evidence it seeks to rely upon. 
For a non-deliberate failure to make a fair presentation, AXA will need to show  with its 
underwriting criteria  whether it wouldve put cover in place on different terms or at a 
different premium. And it will be able to settle any claim in line with those terms or 
proportionately to the premium charged.  
Summary
There is an element of this claim that I consider to be for defective design. And without 
evidence that either 1) AXA has been prejudiced by the late notification of the claim 
circumstance, or 2) this was a deliberate misrepresentation by S at renewal, then I think AXA 
shouldve put funding in place for this part of the claim. 
If AXA is unable to demonstrate either of these points, it will need to consider what funding 
wouldve been put in place of this element of the claim had it been considered correctly 
initially. I appreciate this will be difficult to do given that the claims for defective design and 
defective workmanship are interlinked and the claim has now settled, but I will consider the 
fairness of any settlement offer AXA wishes to make at this point. 
Ive already recommended £200 compensation for the poor claims handling. Im inclined to 
increase this to £350 on the basis that AXA relied on the claim circumstance condition 
without considering the breach of claim notification condition or claim circumstance 
condition which couldve altered the decision on cover in the favour of its policyholder. 
Responses to my second provisional decision
AXA rejected my second provisional decision, raising the following points:
There isnt a professional indemnity claim as there isnt a specific allegation that 
there were issues with the design or specification.
S own solicitor advised that the Particulars of Claim were poorly drafted as they dont 
succinctly set out the factual basis of the matter or legal basis of the claim. And whilst 
he said he believed the claim did include a defective design element; it hadnt been 
stated.
Any claim for defective products would be caught by the products exclusion.
AXA didnt provide any of the requested information as set out in my second provisional 
decision.
S provided no further submissions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The points raised by AXA are ones already dealt with in my first provisional decision. As 
AXA accepted that decision at the time, Im surprised by its response, however I will deal 
with the points raised below.
Defective workmanship exclusion
Whilst TPs Particulars of Claim didnt expressly say there was an issue with the design / 
specification of the air conditioning unit, the allegations made within it were clear there was a 
dispute over whether the design was fit for purpose. 
Its not in dispute that the Particulars of Claim were poorly drafted, but that alone isnt 
sufficient reason to deny the existence of a claim for insurance purposes, especially when 
its not in S control how TP presents its claim in court and will still have to defend the 
allegations that the unit wasnt fit for purpose regardless of how that argument is presented. 
Ultimately, the basis of the claim included an element of defective design  whether 
specifically worded in that way or not, and this is supported by the legal opinion of S 
solicitor.
AXAs own claims handlers appear to acknowledge this in internal email correspondence 
from April 2021 which says:
The new information now provided by the insured does change the position and 
does seem to show that there has been an element of design that has taken place. 
Although the seating plan provided is not overly informative, it does indicate a design 
element which a D&C policy can respond to. This also seems to tie in to the Letter of 
Claim initially raised on 8 January 2021 where at point 3 on page 2, there is 
suggestion the air con system installed currently only provides fresh air for 46 people 
rather than the 55 it should be providing for.
As such, I remain satisfied that part of this claim was covered by the policy unless an 
exclusion applied. 
Products exclusion
AXA again seeks to rely on the Products exclusion but has once more provided no 
explanation as to why. As I said in my first provisional decision, our service isnt a claims 
handler so if AXA wish to rely on an exclusion, the onus is on it to demonstrate that it 
applies. 
Looking at the policy, the exclusion says:
Products exclusion
We will not cover any claim arising from products or goods manufactured, 
constructed, altered, repaired, treated, sold, supplied or distributed by you. This 
exclusion will not apply to project models. 
TPs claim is that the air conditioning unit is not fit for purpose as it doesnt meet the 
requirements for the amount of people it needs to service. Im satisfied this arises from S design / specification, rather than the product itself. And without a clear explanation from 
AXA as to why it thinks this exclusion applies, Im not considering it further.
ICOBS requires AXA to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably reject a 
claim. 
Its clear that AXA has reviewed the policy in great deal to identify all conditions and 
exclusions that could apply to this claim, but  as highlighted in my second provisional 
decision  has failed to identify the ones that could be in S favour. S has commented that 
AXA appear to be using every loophole to get out of covering this claim and I can 
understand why they would say this, considering the number of exclusions its put forward 
without explanation and its overall handling of the claim. As such, Im concerned that AXA 
isnt acting in good faith here, and in accordance with ICOBS.
Claim circumstance condition
My second provisional decision asked AXA to evidence what, if any, detriment there was as 
a result of S breach of the claim circumstance condition. AXA hasnt done so, as such I cant 
fairly conclude that S failure to comply with the claim circumstance condition caused AXA 
any prejudice. So it follows that I dont think AXA can fairly rely on that condition when 
declining the claim.
Non-disclosure and misrepresentation condition 
I also asked AXA for confirmation of whether it intends to rely on the non-disclosure and 
misrepresentation condition and on what basis, including any evidence and underwriting 
criteria. AXA hasnt provided any comment or information in this regard.
As such, Im satisfied that AXA doesnt intend to rely on this policy condition to decline the 
claim.
Putting things right
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that AXA shouldve accepted S claim to 
defend the defective design / specification element being brought against them by TP. 
In the absence of any settlement offer from AXA, Ive thought about whats fair and 
reasonable to put things right for S. Where a business has done something wrong, we would 
expect it to put the customer back in the position they wouldve been in had things been 
done correctly.
But this isnt straight forward here. I say this because the defective design allegation is only 
one element of the claim being pursued against S, and as all elements are interlinked, they 
wouldve been defended together. So its difficult to determine what costs relate to the part of 
the claim I consider to be covered  and what costs are for the defence of the defective 
workmanship allegations of which form the remainder of the claim.
In AXAs internal email of April 2021 referred to above, when it was considering covering the 
design element, it suggested covering 50% of the defence costs. As there is no exact 
science to calculate the exact costs associated with the design element, Im satisfied that 
covering 50% of the costs is a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
The professional indemnity policy says it will cover the claim and the defence costs. S tells 
us that the claim has been settled for £22,000 inclusive of TPs costs and interest. And S 
own legal costs amount to £23,315.40  of which theyve provided invoices. So AXA should pay 50% of both amounts  which total £22,657.70  under the policy, plus 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date S paid this to the date its settled. 
S has paid both the claim settlement and legal costs in instalments over a period of 15 
months. Legal costs have been paid from approximately March 2021 to June 2022. And the 
settlement was paid between March and April 2022. For the purposes of calculating interest, 
I consider it fair that 8% simple interest is applied from a mid-point of these dates  which is 
the invoice dated 29 November 2021.
AXA is entitled to deduct the policy excess, which I believe to be £2,500.
Im aware that S also paid £15,295.15 for an independent experts report. Im not aware of 
what this report was for specifically, nor whether it addressed the design element of the 
claim. I also havent been provided with any invoice. As I cant be satisfied that this report 
was obtained in regard to the element of the claim I consider to be covered by the policy and 
that it was reasonable to incur such a significant cost, I cant fairly direct AXA to contribute to 
these fees. 
Im also awarding £350 compensation for the impact caused to S by AXAs poor claims 
handling, as explained in both my provisional decisions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im directing AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay S the following:
the sum of £22,657.70 in settlement of this claim, minus the policy excess of £2,500, 
plus 8% simple interest per annum* from 29 November 2021 to the date settlement is 
made.
compensation of £350.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell S how much its taken off. It should also give S a tax deduction 
certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman