DRN-3622101
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled and settled a claim 
made on his commercial motor insurance policy following the theft of his van. 
What happened
Mr Bs work van was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. The van was later found 
destroyed but Haven didnt collect the salvage. Mr B thought this delayed the settlement of 
his claim. And he was also unhappy with the settlement Haven paid him for the vans total 
loss. Mr B raised further complaint points after Haven responded to his complaint. Mr B 
wanted a refund of the remaining premium hed paid and compensation for his loss of work. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought the 
claim had been handled reasonably promptly and that Haven hadnt caused delays in paying 
Mr B his settlement. But he thought Havens settlement offer for the vans market value 
wasnt fair and reasonable. He thought this should be increased to £6,418.80 (including 
VAT) and that Haven should pay Mr B interest on the difference. The Investigator didnt 
consider Mr Bs further complaint points as Haven had yet to respond to them. 
Mr B agreed with the Investigators view. But Haven said there was no evidence that Mr B 
had paid VAT when he bought the van.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B would want his claim dealt with quickly so that he wouldnt lose 
any work. I dont think its unusual for insurers to ask for information to validate a claim 
before accepting and settling it. And this can cause a delay in the claim. Mr B was 
concerned that the loss of the van after it was located may have caused delays. But I cant 
see that this affected his claim as Haven had already accepted his loss. It took Haven three 
working weeks to settle his claim. And I think this was fair and reasonable. 
Haven placed a pre-loss market value of £4,000 on the van and it deducted the outstanding 
premium and the policy excess from the settlement. 
I can see that Market Value is defined in Mr Bs policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing Your Vehicle with one of similar make, model and specification, taking 
into account the age, mileage and condition of Your Vehicle. To determine the Market Value, 
We will typically request the advice of an engineer and refer to guides and any other relevant 
sources.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Havens offer for the market value of Mr Bs van was unfair. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the trade guides we use 
for vans of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Bs van. He found 
three valuations and, in keeping with our approach, discounted an outlier that was out of 
keeping with the others. He then took an average of the other two valuations, arriving at a 
market value of £5,349. 
Mr B said he had paid £4,000 for the van a few weeks before the theft in a private sale. He 
said he hadnt paid VAT on the sale. Mr B wasnt VAT registered in any case so he wouldnt 
have been able to recover any VAT payment from HMRC. Haven thought that if it paid Mr B 
VAT it would put him into a position of betterment. But we dont consider how the van was 
purchased. And the policy provides for the vans market value, not the price Mr B paid for it. 
The trade guides exclude VAT from commercial vehicle valuations. We think that if the 
consumer isnt VAT registered, then the insurer should add VAT to the settlement figure so 
that Mr B can buy a like replacement. So Im satisfied that the amount that Haven should pay 
Mr B in settlement of his claim should be £6,418.80, less the deductions for his outstanding 
premium and policy excess. 
This means that Haven should pay Mr B a further £2,418.80. And, as Mr B has been without 
his money for some time, I think Haven should reasonably add interest to this amount from 
the date of the first payment until settlement. 
Mr B wanted Haven to compensate him for his loss of earnings. But I can see that his policy 
doesnt cover consequent losses for being without the van. So I dont think it would be fair to 
ask Haven to compensate him for this. And, as the policy was an annual contract and a 
claim had been made, I think it was fair and reasonable for Haven to deduct the outstanding 
premium from the settlement. 
Mr B raised other concerns with the handling of his claim. But, like the Investigator, I havent 
considered these as Mr B should first raise them directly with Haven and his broker to give 
them a chance to respond. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B £2,418.80 in settlement of his 
claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
original settlement to the date of final payment.
If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman