The complaint
Mrs and Mr D are unhappy with how Real Time Claims Limited (RTC) dealt with their claim 
for mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
In 2015 Mrs and Mr D instructed RTC to make a claim for mis-sold solar panels. In June 
2016 RTC received all the paperwork from Mrs and Mr D they needed to escalate the claim 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This was because the business whod sold the solar 
panels hadnt responded to the claim. 
But the claim wasnt sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service until March 2017. And in July 
2017 the Financial Ombudsman Service said they couldnt consider the claim because it was 
outside jurisdiction. So the claim was closed.
RTC didnt tell Mrs and Mr D the outcome of the referral to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and didn't provide them with any further updates. In June 2019 RTC decided not 
to remain regulated as a claims management company (CMC).
Mrs and Mr D have complained that RTC didnt keep them updated throughout the claims 
process. And that RTC never told them the outcome of the claim; or that theyre no longer 
regulated as a CMC.
Our investigator said that RTC hadnt co-operated with his investigation and hadnt provided 
any information or evidence. So he based his findings on the information and evidence 
provided by Mrs and Mr D only.
The investigator found there were substantial periods of time when RTC didnt update Mrs 
and Mr D as to what was going on with their claim. And while RTC werent necessarily 
responsible for delays in the claim being progressed, the investigator said this didnt mean 
they didnt have to keep Mrs and Mr D updated.
The investigator couldnt say if RTC had acted differently, whether Mrs and Mr Ds claim 
wouldve been successful. But he did think that RTC caused Mrs and Mr D a large amount of 
inconvenience and frustration because of the lack of updates and adequate progression of 
their claim. So he recommended RTC pay Mrs and Mr D £250 to compensate them for this. 
Because RTC didnt respond to the investigators findings, this case has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1915621Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
 
From the evidence Ive seen RTC didnt update Mrs and Mr D between November 2015 and 
April 2016. There were also no updates between June and September 2016. Id expect a 
CMC to keep their customers reasonably updated with regards to how a claim was 
progressing, even if it was only that they were awaiting something to move things forward.
There were also problems in getting an inspection of the solar panels. While this may not 
have been RTCs fault, they were managing the claim. So Id have expected them to do 
more to get the inspection done. And there was a delay from June 2016 to March 2017 in 
submitting paperwork to the Financial Ombudsman Service. As a CMC Id expect RTC to 
know there were timescales from making this type of submission, and a delay of 9-months 
couldve meant a claim that was in time wasnt accepted because it was out of time once 
received.
And finally, RTC didnt tell Mrs and Mr D the outcome of the claim once it was submitted to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. And they didnt provide any updates, or reply to any 
correspondence, after this point. This is unacceptable service.
Ive also seen that Mrs and Mr D received a refund from the solar panel company in October 
2013. If they were unhappy with this refund, they would usually have six months in which to 
escalate their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But Mrs and Mr D didnt start 
a claim with RTC until 2015, which was outside the six-month period, and the claim wasnt 
escalated until 2017. And the emails Ive seen from RTC refer to the time limits for making a 
claim, although RTC didnt think these would apply in the circumstances.
Because of this, I dont think that any delays or lack of updates from RTC meant that a claim 
that otherwise wouldve been considered wasnt considered. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service said the claim was outside their jurisdiction to consider, and not submitting a claim to 
them within six months of the final response (in this case, the refund from the solar panel 
company) would mean a claim was outside jurisdiction. So I dont think RTC have caused a 
loss of opportunity for Mrs and Mr Ds claim to be considered. 
Putting things right
While RTC are no longer a regulated CMC, they were regulated throughout the entire period 
they actually acted for Mrs and Mr D. So its for this reason Im able to consider their actions, 
or lack of actions, and direct them to do something to remedy this.
While RTC didnt cause the claim to be rejected by the Financial Ombudsman Service, they 
did cause Mrs and Mr D a substantial amount of frustration and inconvenience by their 
delays, lack of updates and not responding to emails. The investigator has recommended a 
payment of £250 to recognise this. 
I think a payment of £250 is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I direct RTC to pay Mrs and Mr D £250 in recognition of the impact theyve experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. Real Time Claims 
Limited must follow my directions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman