DRN-3722283
The complaint
Miss M complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In December 2019 Everyday Loans approved a loan of £1,000 for Miss M, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £133 per month over a term of 18 months. The loan 
was intended to cover Christmas expenses. When assessing the application, Everyday 
Loans took steps to verify Miss Ms financial circumstances and carried out a credit check 
before approving the lending.
It would appear that Miss M was not always able to make the agreed repayment, as I note 
reduced amounts being paid in some months, and higher amounts in others, presumably to 
catch up. There are also references to unpaid amounts. So the account does not seem to 
have been entirely unproblematic.
When Miss M complained to it, Everyday Loans didnt accept it had done anything wrong. So 
she brought her case to this service. Initially she complained about two loans given to her by 
Everyday Lending, but the parties have accepted the adjudicators findings on loan one, so 
that is no longer in dispute and wont be dealt with in this decision.
The adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt have given Miss M this loan in 
December 2019, but it doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to review the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Everyday Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Miss M would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable 
way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Miss M needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Everyday Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Everyday Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Everyday Loans asked Miss M about her income and expenditure; reviewed a copy of a 
bank statement; and carried out a credit check when considering her loan application. Im 
satisfied that its checks went far enough.
Did Everyday Loans respond appropriately to the information it had when deciding whether 
to provide this loan?
Based on what it knew about Miss M, I dont think Everyday Loans could reasonably have 
concluded that this loan would be sustainable for her, bearing in mind the regulations in 
force.
On a superficial level, the income and expenditure assessment (I&E) that Everyday 
Loans completed did suggest that Miss M had a modest amount of disposable income 
each month.
However, there was a range of other issues and concerns which placed the findings of the 
I&E in some doubt, and about which Everyday Loans knew. I will summarise the key 
issues here:
Defaults and County Court Judgements shown on Miss Ms credit file, including 
some within the preceding three years.
Apparent difficulties for Miss M in making repayments on her previous loan with 
Everyday Loans, including failed direct debits, and a need to switch to weekly 
repayments.
Evidence from the bank statement reviewed by Everyday Loans to show that at 
least twice Miss M, albeit temporarily, was overdrawn, but didnt in fact have an 
agreed overdraft. Whether charges resulted from that isnt clear.
Everyday Loans has cited monies received by Miss M from her partner, in relation 
to certain payments she was making on his behalf. However, Everyday Loans 
annotations on the bank statement show that her outgoings which were noted to be 
on his behalf exceeded what he transferred to her by almost £100.
In short, the information Everyday Loans saw showed it that Miss M effectively had no 
disposable income, and was living, for want of a better expression, hand to mouth.
In the round, the evidence very strongly suggests that Miss M had repeated and long-
standing financial struggles. I accept its possible that Everyday Loans could have sought 
more evidence to potentially support its lending decision  such as evidence to support the 
suggested reasons why she had been unable to manage other credit, or additional bank 
statements to show that some months she did have some disposable income. (In fact, Miss 
M has supplied some additional bank statements, which simply confirm the difficulties 
summarised above.) But in any event it chose not to. The evidence it decided to rely on does 
not suggest that this borrowing with a monthly repayment of £133 was affordable and 
sustainable for Miss M, so it follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
It appears that Miss M has settled this loan. In order to put things right for her, Everyday 
Loans must do the following:
A) Everyday Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the principal on the 
outstanding loan. B) If this results in Miss M having made overpayments then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
payments were made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) Whilst I dont believe there is, should there still be an outstanding balance following the 
actions set out in A, then Everyday Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with 
Miss M.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to this
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman