DRN-2836070
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) have handled his complaint about 
being the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr M says that he was subject to blackmail and threats between late 2018 and June 2019, 
and due to this he gave his account details and cards and PINs to those threatening him.   
Mr M says they took control of his accounts held with four different banks including an 
account with Bank A and made transactions without his permission as well as forcing him to 
make some transactions. Mr M says this continued until they came to his home in June 2019 
and took him in a car  threatening him and physically assaulting him. Mr M says at this 
point he was scared of what would happen next and went to the police.
Its been unclear exactly how Mr Ms details were initially compromised. He has told us that 
his father wanted to learn about online trading, so Mr M helped him find a third party via the 
internet to help with this. And that within a few days of contacting that third party, Mr M and 
his father started to be blackmailed.
Mr M has also told us that he wanted to learn how to trade in forex and found a course 
online. He says he gave his card details and was tricked into sharing his bank details for his 
account with Bank A after he was told a trade account had been set up for him. As part of 
setting up that trade account, Mr M also shared his driving licence. He says that shortly after 
this he noticed unauthorised transactions on his account with Bank A, so he contacted the 
third party who had set up the trade account and complained. Mr M says they told him that if 
he did anything they would come to his house and hurt his friend or his family.
Mr M says that both himself, his father and a friend were subject to blackmail and threats 
and all lost money to the fraudsters. Mr M says they knew his home address and came to his 
house on some occasions and threatened him with violence. He says he had to open new 
accounts with Monzo and Bank B as he lost control of his accounts with Bank A and another 
bank. But that the fraudsters found out about the new accounts and took control of those as 
well. Eventually all of Mr Ms accounts with all four banks were closed.
Mr M says the fraudsters called from a withheld number and came to his house and deleted 
their conversations with him from his phone  so he doesnt have any evidence of his 
contact with them. But Mr M has provided four screen shots of messages which appear to be 
from around May 2019. Mr M gave us the name and contact details for the police officer 
overseeing his case, as well as a letter from Victim Support.
Mr Ms Monzo account
In March 2019, two transfers were made out of Mr Ms Monzo account which he says he 
didnt make. Mr M says the fraudsters got his Monzo PIN and downloaded the banking app 
onto their phone.
Below are some transactions made on Mr Ms account before the disputed transactions, with 
the disputed transactions in bold.
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
21.2.2019 Faster payment credit from MM £37 cr
6.3.2019 Faster payment credit to account £1,167.57 cr
6.3.2019 Faster payment to MM £500.00
6.3.2019 Faster payment to MM £667.64
Mr M raised a complaint with Monzo, asking them to refund him for the two payments.
Monzo investigated Mr Ms complaint but declined to refund him. Saying Mr M told them that 
no one else had access to his device or PIN, therefore they couldnt see how someone else 
carried out the transactions. They told Mr M they werent prepared to reopen his account but 
accepted that they shouldve acknowledged receipt of his complaint sooner and offered £25 
for the poor service.
Mr M wasnt happy with Monzos response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, he felt Mr M had 
consented to the transactions by giving the third parties the means to access his account. 
And that Monzo hadnt acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms account. They also felt the £25 
payment made by Monzo was a fair award for the poor service he received.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also very carefully considered everything that Mr M has told us including his most recent 
contact with us, and Ive taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and good industry practice at the time.
Can Monzo hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions?
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised the transactions himself.
In this case its not in dispute that Mr Ms PIN was used via a mobile banking app to make 
the transfers. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough for 
Monzo to hold him liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that     
Mr M consented to the transactions being made.Monzo has provided evidence with regards to the two payments Mr M is disputing as well as 
for a credit that Mr M received into his account a couple of weeks prior. The disputed 
transactions were made to a party Ill refer to as MM. The evidence from Monzo shows that 
the account these funds were sent to, matches the account Mr M received a credit from a 
couple of weeks prior. This suggests that the disputed transfers were paid to someone Mr M 
already knew. Also, Mr M isnt disputing the payments made between the time he received 
the credit from MM and the two transfers he says he didnt make, which suggests that the 
fraudsters didnt have control of his account prior to the two transfers.
The evidence also shows the device ID details for the device the banking app was used on 
to make the payments. The payments were made on a device with the same make, model 
and device ID that Mr M had used for prior genuine transactions through the app - that he 
isnt disputing. So, Im not persuaded that these transactions were completed by someone 
else.
Mr M has told us that during this time he was being blackmailed and threatened. But the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) set out the circumstances under which we 
would consider a consumer to have consented to transactions. While I accept what Mr M 
has told us, being coerced or pressured into giving consent doesnt change the starting 
position under the PSRs that he has given consent. And in the circumstances, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr M actually made these payments himself or at the least 
authorised the transactions by providing his PIN. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Monzo to refund 
Mr M.
However, Ive also considered whether Monzo couldve or shouldve done anything to 
prevent these transfers from being made on Mr Ms account. 
Could Monzo have prevented the payments?
In this case there were only two transfers made, and both were for under £700. They were 
made by a payment method that Mr M had used previously and to a payee Mr M had used 
before. Based on this, Im not persuaded that there was enough about these two payments 
that made them appear so unusual and out of character whereby they shouldve flagged with 
Monzo.
As I wouldnt have expected them to flag with Monzo, I cant see that Monzo missed an 
opportunity to have stopped or prevented the payments.
Have Monzo acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account?
Monzo are entitled to end their banking relationship with Mr M in line with their terms and 
conditions, in the same way that he can decide that he doesnt want to bank with them 
anymore. From what Ive seen Monzo havent acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms account.
I appreciate that Mr M wanted Monzo to reopen his account, but they arent obligated to do 
this.
Monzo has already offered Mr M £25, saying the level of service he received couldve been 
better  specifically that they shouldve acknowledged his complaint sooner. Based on what 
Ive seen the £25 is a fair award for this.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo can hold Mr M liable for the disputed 
transactions and I wont be asking them to refund him. Also, theyve acted fairly and 
reasonably in closing Mr Ms account and have adequately addressed the poor service they 
say Mr M received. So, I wont be asking Monzo to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman