DRN-4119020
Complaint
Miss G has complained that Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as Ratesetter) unfairly 
brought about an unaffordable loan for her. Shes said that the loan was unaffordable and 
caused her to borrow further. 
Background
Ratesetter operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Miss G being 
provided with a loan in October 2019. The loan was for £2,000.00. The agreement had a 36-
month term, an APR of 26.9% and the total amount of £2,828.16, including interest and 
other charges of £828.16, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £78.56
Miss Gs complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Ratesetter 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss G unfairly. So she didnt recommend Miss Gs 
complaint be upheld. As Miss G disagreed with our investigators view, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint.
Ratesetter needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Miss G could afford to make the monthly payments before bringing about this loan for her. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss G and Ratesetter have said.
As I understand it, this was Miss Gs first agreement with Ratesetter. Ratesetter asked     
Miss G details about her income and carried out a credit check which showed Miss G had 
some existing credit commitments, including a mortgage and a car loan, with no significant 
repayment issues on them. 
The first thing for me to say is about Ratesetters checks is that I dont think that this was a 
case of Ratesetter simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable 
income at face value. As Ive explained, Ratesetters credit searches did show that Miss G 
had existing debts. But I dont think that this in itself demonstrated that Miss G wouldnt be 
able to make what were the low monthly repayments to this loan. 
Equally, as this was Miss Gs first loan with Ratesetter and it was for a relatively low amount 
with low repayments, Im satisfied that it was reasonably entitled to believe that it wouldnt be 
increasing Miss Gs existing indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. I accept that Miss G says she experienced difficulty making the payments. And Im 
sorry to hear that this is the case. But Ratesetter could only make a reasonable decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. All Ratesetter could do was take 
reasonable steps to ensure the payments would be affordable which, for reasons Ive 
already explained, Im satisfied it did so.
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when bringing about Miss Gs loan. The key thing 
here is that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks which suggested the 
repayments would be affordable, provided the consolidation took place. 
So overall I dont think that Ratesetter treated Miss G unfairly or unreasonably when bringing 
about her agreement. As this is the case and while I sympathise with Miss G as a result of 
any difficulties she might have gone on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding her 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss G. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that I know Miss G is unhappy at the way she is 
being pursued for the outstanding balance on this loan. However, Miss Gs account was 
assigned to a third-party, some time ago. As the third-party is regulated in its own right and it 
is responsible for its own actions, Miss G will have to direct her concerns to it in the first 
instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman