DRN-3039818
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.  
 
Mr L, a director of W, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after 
being forced to close by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
  
Allianz turned down Ws claim. It said that the main business interruption section of the 
policy and the extension for denial of access didnt provide cover because Covid-19 hadnt 
caused damage. It said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a 
notifiable human disease occurring at the premises, W had closed as a result of the 
Government Act in response to the national pandemic.
  
W was unhappy with Allianzs response and brought the complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think W had closed due to someone at its premises having Covid-19.
W asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ws business. But Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ws claim.   
  
The most relevant part of Ws policy covers loss resulting from business interruption or 
interference in consequence of: 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a 
Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises  
The policy defines a Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a  food or drink poisoning
b  any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified 
to them
In order for this extension to provide cover, the interruption or interference to Ws business 
would need to be as a result of the closure or restrictions on Ws premises in consequence 
of a notifiable human disease occurring at Ws premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable human 
disease, but I havent seen anything to indicate that there was a case of Covid-19 at its 
premises. Instead, W appears to have closed as a result of the Governments actions in 
response to the national pandemic. As there isnt anything to indicate that W closed as a 
result of a case of Covid-19 at its premises, the policy doesnt provide cover for the 
circumstances of its claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome W was hoping for, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay Ws claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman