DRN-1064771
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement offered by Skyfire Insurance Company Limited in 
relation to his motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W has a motor insurance policy underwritten by Skyfire. A third party acts as 
administrator of this policy, and Mr W's interactions have largely been with this third party. 
But, as Skyfire are ultimately responsible for the actions relevant to this complaint, I've just 
referred to Skyfire in this decision for the sake of simplicity.
In June 2019, Mr W's car was unfortunately stolen. It was not recovered and when he 
claimed to Skyfire under the policy, it considered the car to be a total loss. It initially offered 
Mr W £20,650, but increased this offer to just over £21,000. Mr W was not happy with this 
level of settlement and said he would need to spend several thousand pounds more than 
this to purchase a comparable replacement. 
Skyfire explained that its valuation had been made based on the market value of the car, 
and by reference to relevant industry guides. As such, it did not uphold Mr W's complaint 
about the settlement of the claim and he referred this matter to our service.
Our investigator thought that Skyfire acted fairly and reasonably in calculating the settlement 
of the claim by using the industry guides. And that, as the valuation offered was within the 
guides' range of valuations for the relevant model of car, taking into account its condition and 
added extras, she considered Skyfire's settlement offer was appropriate. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He said that whilst the guides may refer to particular figures, he 
wasn't able to find a suitable replacement for the money offered and did not feel that these 
guides were fair. His complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role in relation to this complaint is not to assess Mr W's claim. It is to determine whether 
or not Skyfire has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with that claim. In doing so, I 
need to have regard to, in part, the rules set out in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints 
(DISP) part of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. DISP 3.6.4(2)R requires me, 
where appropriate, to have regard to what I consider to be good industry practice. 
 
Mr W's complaint is largely about the method that Skyfire used to come to a valuation of his 
car. So I need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Skyfire to rely on the 
industry guides it used, rather than some other method - for example by considering what 
similar cars were being sold for in Mr W's area.However, it is considered good industry practice for motor insurers to rely on such guides 
when valuing cars. And I don't consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to expect 
Skyfire to act differently to the other providers of motor insurance.
I have noted Mr W's comments about these guides not providing a fair price, but the issue 
for me to determine is whether or not Skyfire acted fairly and reasonably by using them. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I consider Skyfire was entitled to rely on these 
guides to come to a settlement figure. 
Whilst I consider it was appropriate for Skyfire to rely on industry guides, I have also thought 
about whether the figure ultimately offered was a fair and reasonable reflection of these 
guides. 
The investigator has set out the valuations the industry guides provided for a similar car to  
Mr W's, taking into account the extras he had on the vehicle. These ranged from £20,460 
to £21,970. Skyfire's offer is within the region of these guides, so I consider it was a 
reasonable reflection of the valuations they produced. 
I appreciate Mr W has apparently had difficulty finding a similar replacement car for the level 
of settlement offered. But I consider Skyfire has acted fairly and reasonably when coming to 
this settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman