DRN-4387062
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin
Money when he raised a query about reward points earned on his credit card.
What happened
Mr S holds a credit card account with Virgin Money. The account is linked to a reward
scheme and Mr S earns points when he makes purchases on the credit card. The number of
points earned are shown on his credit card statement each month. The points are then
transferred to his reward account.
Mr Ss credit card statement for May 2022 showed that he had earned a certain number of
points that month. But he says that none of the points were added to his reward account. His
credit card statement for June 2022 showed the number of points earned that month. But he
says that only some of these were added to his reward account, not all of them.
Mr S contacted Virgin Money in June 2022 for an explanation. Virgin Money logged the
query as a complaint but said it was taking longer than usual to investigate due to an
unusually busy period. By November 2022, Mr S still hadnt received a substantive
response, so he asked this service to look into the issue. He was still waiting for an
explanation of the discrepancy between the points shown on his credit card statement and
those which appeared on the reward account. He was by that stage also unhappy with the
way Virgin Money had dealt with his query, in particular the fact that it had taken so long and
Virgin Money had stopped updating him.
Virgin Money issued its final response to the complaint in February. It said that, although Mr
S earns points on purchases made on his credit card, those points are clawed back if the
purchases are refunded. It said that Mr S had earned reward points on numerous
transactions which were subsequently refunded to his credit card account. So, the reward
points associated with those transactions had to be clawed back.
Virgin Money said that Mr S would need to earn new points equivalent to the value of those
linked to the refunds before any points could be applied to the reward account again. Virgin
Money said that was why it didnt send any points across to the reward scheme in April or
May and only some of the points earned were sent across in June. It said it hadnt made a
mistake in its handling of the points, so it didnt uphold this part of the complaint.
But Virgin Money apologised for the length of time it had taken to investigate Mr Ss
complaint. It said it was experiencing an unusually busy period and hadnt been able to meet
the usual timescales. It also apologised for the long wait times which Mr S said he
experienced when he tried to call Virgin Money. It upheld this part of his complaint and paid
him £20 as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S wasnt happy with this outcome. He said that his request for information about the 
reward points wasnt a complaint and that he had simply wanted to understand how the 
points were being dealt with. He said that his complaint was about Virgin Moneys customer 
service failings. He said that it hadnt responded to his simple request for an explanation 
over a period of months, which is why he referred the issue to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September indicating my intention not to uphold the 
complaint. Virgin Money confirmed that it didnt have any further comments. Mr S 
commented that my provisional decision placed too much emphasis on his original request 
and that his complaint is not about the way Virgin Money issues points. He also said that his 
complaint is not about Virgin Moneys complaint handling policy but is to do with whether 
Virgin Money treated him fairly by taking nine months to answer a simple question. Im now 
making a final decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S first contacted this service, Virgin Money hadnt answered his query about the
reward points. Thats the query which Virgin Money addressed in its final response letter, as 
outlined above. Its included in the background section of this decision as that issue was 
originally referred to this service. Mr S has since confirmed that he understands Virgin 
Moneys explanation of how the points were handled and has no issue with this. So I dont 
need to look into it here.
However, Mr S says that Virgin Money doesnt proactively inform customers how the points
will be handled and he says there is nothing in Virgin Moneys literature which explains this.
Also, he says it shouldnt take such a long time to provide customers with such basic
information.
The reward scheme itself isnt operated by Virgin Money but is run by a separate company. I
understand that Mr Ss reward account is subject to its own terms and conditions, between
Mr S and the reward scheme. Im not looking at the actions of that business here, so I cant
comment on the way it handles points or whether its literature is clear.
But I note that the help section of Virgin Moneys website includes an explanation of the way
points are affected by refunds. Its unfortunate that Mr S didnt see this information, as I think
it would have answered his query. But I dont find that to be Virgin Moneys fault.
Mr S says he tried to contact Virgin Money to ask about the points. He says he had to send
his request via an online complaints service because it had proved impossible for him to
contact Virgin Money through its own channels. I havent seen any details of when or how Mr
S tried to contact Virgin Money before raising the complaint. But Virgin Money addressed
this comment in its final response letter. It apologised if Mr S had been unable to contact it
because of long call waiting times and paid him £20 as an apology for this.
I dont know how many times Mr S tried to call Virgin Money or how long he spent trying to
get through. But I havent seen any evidence that call waiting times were excessive or that
he suffered significant inconvenience in this respect. So, I think the £20 paid by Virgin
Money for this issue is reasonable.
Theres no doubt that it took a long time for Virgin Money to provide an explanation about the
points. Mr S first asked the question in June 2022 and didnt get an answer until February.
But Im not going to ask Virgin Money to do anything about that in the circumstances here.
Thats because, from the information Ive seen, I dont think Virgin Money had the
opportunity to answer Mr Ss query directly before the complaint was initiated. I also think
that Mr S could have found the answer he was looking for on Virgin Moneys website.Mr S logged the complaint on 17 June 2022. Part of his query was to do with points earned
on the June statement, which was dated 15 June 2022. I dont know what steps Mr S took to
try and contact Virgin Money in between receiving the statement and logging the complaint.
But, from what Ive seen, I cant conclude that Virgin Money had the chance to respond
before the complaint was raised.
Mr S says that his request for an explanation of the points wasnt a complaint. Hes very
unhappy with the way Virgin Money dealt with his request. I can understand his point of view
that a relatively straightforward request shouldnt need to be dealt with as a complaint. But I
find that the complaints process was initiated by Mr S himself. Once he had raised the issue
through the online complaint service, I dont think it was unreasonable for Virgin Money to
deal with it as a complaint.
Unfortunately, this meant it went into the complaints system and got caught up in the
backlog of complaints Virgin Money was experiencing at the time. I understand that Mr S is
very unhappy with the way Virgin Money dealt with the complaint and the customer service
he received in that respect. Virgin Money has apologised for the delay in dealing with the
complaint. But this didnt prevent him from referring the complaint to this service, which is 
what he did. 
In conclusion, I dont think Virgin Money treated Mr S unfairly. I dont think it had chance to 
answer his query about the points before he raised a complaint. I havent seen any evidence 
that Virgin Money was aware of the query before it received Mr Ss complaint. The fact that 
the query was relatively straightforward doesnt change my thoughts that it was reasonable 
for Virgin Money to deal with it as a complaint. Thats because Mr S raised it through the 
complaints process. I think the outcome of the complaint was fair. As to the way the 
complaint itself was handled, I explained in my provisional decision that its not something I 
can look at here because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman