DRN-3017175
The complaint
Mr S complains The Mortgage Business plc (TMB) acted unfairly when it marked his credit 
file with missed mortgage payments.
What happened
Mr S says he has a buy to let mortgage (BTL) with TMB and up until March 2020 his monthly 
BTL payments were up to date. Mr S says following lockdown he started to suffer with 
mental health issues and had assumed at that time he was benefiting from a Covid payment 
holiday, following government guidelines issued to the banks. Mr S says he had available 
funds to make the BTL payments, but he never received any telephone calls or emails from 
TMB to discuss his situation, only receiving threatening letters at a difficult time. Mr S says 
he subsequently learned his credit file had been adversely marked with missed payments. 
Mr S says despite him providing the evidence that TMB requested, to show he had available 
funds at the time of the arrears, it still refused to remove the adverse credit file markers or 
amend his interest rate on his BTL. 
Mr S says this matter has affected his mental health and wellbeing and wants TMB to 
remove the adverse credit file information, following which he would pay off the arrears 
owing of around £11,000.
TMB says it issued various letters to Mr S regarding the arrears on his mortgage. Although 
TMB  accepts it gave misinformation about the legal action it would take over the arrears, 
following a part repayment, there was no agreement in place for a payment holiday as Mr S 
hadnt requested one. TMB has paid Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset this caused him. 
TMB says it requested the evidence from Mr S regarding the funds he said he had available 
on the understanding if it had made an error, then it might be able to reconsider his 
complaint about the markers on his credit file - but TMB on reflection felt it hadnt made any 
errors. TMB subsequently advised it could only reconsider Mr Ss request to amend his BTL 
interest terms, once the arrears were brought up to date. 
Mr S wasnt happy with TMBs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says TMB had provided evidence to show they had written on numerous 
occasions to Mr S regarding the arrears and these were correctly addressed. The 
investigator says although Mr S provided TMB with statements evidencing he had funds 
available to make the arrears payments, it made a business decision not to make any 
corrections, as they hadnt made any errors. 
The investigator felt TMB had acted correctly when it registered the missed payments on Mr 
Ss credit file. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I was sorry to learn that Mr S is experiencing mental health issues and I can see this has 
been a difficult time for him. I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr S to learn 
he had adverse markers placed on his credit file, when he believed he was in a Covid 
payment holiday arrangement with TMB. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TMB acted unfairly when it registered the 
missed payments against Mr Ss credit file when it did. 
The first thing to say is I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike. 
Mr Ss complaint centres around the fact he was under the impression he was benefiting 
from a Covid payment holiday on his BTL, as he says he was aware the government had 
provided guidance to banks over Covid support at this time. In addition, Mr S says TMB 
never attempted to telephone him concerning any arrears on his BTL, it simply sent 
threatening letters, adding to his anxiety. Mr S says TMB also refused to amend his credit 
file even though hed provided bank statements to show he had the funds available to meet 
his BTL payments, when they were due. Mr S has subsequently advised this service, TMB 
also wouldnt agree to review the interest rate terms on his BTL.
I understand the central complaint points Mr S makes here, but Im not fully persuaded by 
his argument. I say this because although TMB like all banks, were given guidance by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) surrounding financial support for consumers experiencing 
Covid related financial issues in early April 2020, this was always subject to individual 
assessment and a consumer request for it. It would have been the consumers responsibility 
to contact their lender to request the support, so among other things, consumers could also 
be made aware of the consequences of such a request.  
Here, and by his own admission, Mr S didnt apply for Covid support and although he may 
have thought it was automatically applied, unfortunately that wasnt the case. And TMB 
didnt tell him it had put a payment deferral in place for him.
Mr S is unsure why TMB, having asked him to provide statements to evidence he had the 
funds to meet the BTL payments, then chose to ignore it when he produced them. From the 
information I have seen, TMB wanted to establish if it had made any errors and if it had, then 
with the evidence it asked for it might be able to reconsider the matter. But here, TMB didnt 
feel it had made any errors, so it didnt feel the fact Mr S could have made the payments, 
altered its original decision to register the markers on his credit file when it did.
While perhaps TMB could have made this a little clearer at the outset to Mr S, I cant say this 
alters the fact there wasnt an agreed Covid payment holiday in place for his BTL. What is 
important here, is various letters were sent to Mr S informing him of the consequences of the 
arrears on his BTL. While Mr S may not agree, TMB had no obligation to also telephone him 
to discuss what it had already put in writing, and its reasonable to say like many businesses, 
its resources to do that would have been stretched at this difficult time. It remained Mr Ss 
responsibility to ensure his BTL payments were made on time and if he had any reason to 
believe he had a payment holiday in place, it was for him to have this clarified with TMB. So, with that in mind and for the reasons I have already given, although Mr S may not agree 
I am satisfied TMB acted reasonably when it registered missed payments on his credit file 
when it did.
I also understand Mr S doesnt feel the £100 in compensation TMB paid him, for the 
misinformation about the legal actions concerning his BTL, was sufficient. I can see that 
TMB have apologised for that mistake and while Mr S was told the partial payment towards 
his BTL arrears would prevent further legal action over the potential repossession of his 
property, TMB subsequently agreed to return the case to its own collections team, rather 
than taking legal proceedings, as it had previously indicated. I am satisfied that was the 
appropriate steps for TMB to have taken, given the misinformation it gave Mr S here. Its 
worth mentioning its not my role to penalise businesses when mistakes like this occur, but to 
ensure these mistakes are corrected, an apology is made and appropriate compensation is 
offered, and Im satisfied that is what happened here.
Mr S also feels TMB could have agreed to discuss the interest terms on his BTL, but it didnt 
do that and he believes it should have. This point didnt form part of Mr Ss initial complaint, 
but all I would say is I am satisfied any lender wouldnt be in a position to renegotiate interest 
terms while a BTL remained in arrears, but Im pleased to see TMB is prepared to do that, 
once the BTL payments are up to date. 
It follows while Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
TMB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman