DRN-4079432
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2016, Mr and Mrs M were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs M decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments
The system would also provide a reduction in their energy bills
The system would be self-funding
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs M or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for 
delays in complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view explaining that Mr and Mrs M had been 
unbale to register for the FIT scheme as their system hadnt been registered by P. our 
investigator explained that as this hadnt been previously raised in their claim and 
subsequent complaint, this issue would have to be raised with P and Shawbrook separately. 
But as an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs M could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs M and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods. Im satisfied that Mr and 
Mrs M were told that the cost of the system was £8,995. The quote sets this out clearly. This 
is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,995. The monthly payment was £95.04. The total amount of credit is £8,895 (after 
deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£17,207.20.
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,995, it 
would cost Mr and Mrs M more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided 
by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs M could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £187.60, which results in an average monthly income of £15.63. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £95.04. As a result, Im not able to conclude that 
the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs M could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £311.98 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs M the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £708.38. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months since this is 
the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £95.04. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £95.04, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs M could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the FIT payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully 
thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did 
form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I 
dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs M that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs M were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs M could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the 
loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs M that the system would pay for 
itself by year 16, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Mr and Mrs M arent registered for FIT and the meter reading theyve sent in also isnt dated. 
So, I havent been able to check if the system is performing as designed. 
Mr and Mrs Ms original section 75 claim was that the system was not generating the 
estimated financial returns and therefore the financial benefits were not covering the monthly 
finance cost. They claimed the system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So 
Shawbrook only dealt with that complaint, and itss answer was that the quote had made it 
clear Mr and Mrs M had not been told the system would be self-funding from the start. 
Mr and Mrs M also havent raised any concerns over the systems generation and 
Shawbrook also hasnt investigated whether the system was generating as much energy as 
P had estimated. If this is something Mr and Mrs M are concerned about, they can raise that 
with Shawbrook separately, but I have not looked at it as part of this case. 
I have only considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the 
financial returns Mr and Mrs M were likely to receive from the system.
I would add that I understand Mr and Mrs M have said they arent registered for FIT 
payments and the payments they are receiving from the Smart Export Guarantee scheme 
are significantly less than they FIT payments they feel they ought to be receiving. If they 
believe P and Shawbrook have caused this loss, they need to again raise that separately 
with Shawbrook  and I havent looked at it as part of this case. 
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why they havent been 
receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs M couldve expected to 
receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs M entered into the contract.
Shawbrook has pointed out that P made an error in one of the assumptions it used but P 
used a lower rate than it should have  which meant the estimated returns were marginally 
lower than if the correct rate had been used. This wouldnt have resulted in the system being 
self-funding, and I dont think this would have affected Mr and Mrs Ms decision to proceed 
with the sale (given if P had used the correct rate, their estimated benefits would have been 
higher). So, I dont think this error has caused any losses or changes the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Finally, I would add Ive considered the CMCs concerns about the credit assessment carried 
out by Shawbrook and concerns over cancellation rights. But I can see payments on the loan 
have been maintained suggesting there are no affordability issues. And the installation 
doesnt appear to have taken place until a few weeks after the original sales quote was done. And at no point does it look like Mr and Mrs M tried to cancel but couldnt. So, these 
concerns do not change my view of the complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs M 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining 
the claim.
If Mr and Mrs M wish to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling, (if they havent done so already) they should contact Shawbrook directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman