DRN-4274500
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr S had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr S a text message followed by a letter informing him that his 
credit card accout would be closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him 
the points for the last statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused 
annual fee.
Mr S complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted 
faily in closing Mr Ss account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the hotel 
voucher. Mr S wasnt happy with Creations response and brought his compaint to our 
service. 
After Mr S brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint. They offered Mr S a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and 
the free night stay voucher. 
Mr S didnt accept the offer. He complained that Creation havent offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our service. 
Mr C also said he only discovered that Creation had sent him a free night voucher in June 
2023, when he checked his account. And that he hadnt agreed to accept Creations offer up 
to this point which meant hes lost out on at least two months to use the voucher which 
should be valid for 12 months.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought Creation needed to do 
more. Our investigator thought that as well as offering to refund the annual fee, points and 
free night stay voucher, Creation should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to him by not being able to use his free night stay voucher when he went on holiday 
in 2022 and 2023. The investigator also said Creation should pay Mr S a further £50 for not 
informing Mr S it had added the free night voucher to his account, which meant he had less 
time to use his voucher.
Mr S and Creation rejected the investigators recommendations. Mr S said the £50 
compensation doesnt go far enough  he wants Creation to reissue the voucher so that he 
has a full 12 month period to use it. He also wants 8% compensation for the loss of use of 
his refund fee. Creation said it couldnt re-issue the hotel voucher and said it had done 
enough to put things right. So it didnt accept it should pay Mr S any further compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ss account. I reviewed the terms and they explain that Creation can clsoe an account for 
any reason by giving 60 days notice. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr S however, 
Creation have provided Mr S with the full notice period, so I can say Creation have acted 
unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Ss points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr S of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to 
see that they have now agreed to rectify this. I understand that Creation has already 
reimbursed Mr S his points and voucher. But Mr S is still awaiting his annual fee refund. And 
isnt happy to accept the voucher that has been issued. 
I note that Creation has agreed to pro-rata refund of his annual fee, but I will make an award 
in that sum, of £29.84, so that Mr S can enforce it should he need to do so. Mr S has asked 
to be compensated 8% interest on his pro-rata annual fee refund. To award 8%, Id need to 
be satisfied that hes lost out by not having the refund returned sooner. And on balance, I 
cant say this is the case. Therefore, I wont be awarding 8% interest. 
The investigator thought that Creation should also pay Mr S £50 compensation as Mr S 
wasnt able to use his free night voucher on holiday in 2022 and 2023. Mr S has provided 
evidence to this service that he had made a number of trips overseas during this period and 
wasnt able to use his voucher which at the time would have been available to him. So, Im 
satisfied that he lost out on the opportunity of using his voucher and was inconvenienced. 
Taking this into account, I agree with the investigator that Creation should pay Mr S 
compensation. Im satisfied that £150 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and 
proportionate to the trouble and upset Mr S was caused by not being able to use his free 
night voucher. I should add that in reaching this conclusion Creation has explained to this 
service that it is unable to re-set or re-issue Mr Ss hotel voucher. And I accept that.
Creation has confirmed that it issued the voucher to Mr S sometime in mid- April 2023. 
However, Mr S wasnt aware this had been done and only found out about the existence of 
the voucher on the off -chance by checking his account in June 2023. At the time he hadnt 
agreed to accept the offer made by Creation, so he says he has missed out on a full 12 
month period in which to use the voucher. I havent seen any evidence that Creation made 
Mr S aware that it had placed a voucher in his account. So, I cant see how Mr S wouldve 
known about it. The investigator has recommended Creation pay Mr S £50 for the lack of 
communication. Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable way to resolve to resolve this 
aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S has said he wants additional compensation to resolve this matter. Hes pointed out that 
hes spent time and effort trying to resolve his complaint. And missed out on the use of his 
pro-rata refund of £29.84 and a full 12 month period to use his hotel voucher. Hes also 
argued that the cost of accommodation overseas has gone up along with the cost of living.
I understand the point Mr S seeks to make. But I should explain that our awards are 
designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset caused to the consumer by something 
a financial business did wrong. We are not here to punish financial businesses. Nor can we 
award compensation as a means of punishing a business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. So, whilst I know Mr S wont agree,  I wont be asking Creation to 
do anything more.
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, Ill be directing Creation to refund the unused part of the 
annual fee, and credit his outstanding award club points to his account; pay Mr S a total of 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset of not being able to use his free night voucher 
and not advising Mr S that it had issued him with a voucher.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr S £29.84
Credit Mr Ss IHG account with his outstanding award club points
Pay Mr S a total of  £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by not 
being able to use his free night voucher and not informing him he had been issued a 
hotel voucher
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman