DRN-2361412
The complaint
Ms L says J.P. Morgan International Bank Limited (JPM) misled her during the inbound 
transfer of her portfolio by failing  within its advice to her  to inform or advise her about 
potential tax liabilities associated with the transfer. She refers to crystallization of gains and 
of around £170,000 in tax liabilities (for the 2016/2017 tax year) in the transfer. She says she 
would not have performed the transfer, or would have done so in a different manner, had 
she been properly informed or advised about the potential for such tax liabilities.
What happened
Ms L mainly says:
Notes from a meeting held with JPM on 19 October 2016 holds evidence of JPM 
initiating advice on the costs of transfer. Advice about such costs ought reasonably to 
have included costs in terms of potential tax liabilities. As an example, there is a 
quote from the notes in which JPM proposed consideration of an updated gain/loss 
report for the portfolio in order to spread the tax burden. There was a mutual 
understanding  between her and the adviser  that this meant advice on her 
potential tax burden would follow (from the adviser) based upon the updated 
gains/loss report.
Irrespective of JPMs disclaimer of liability for tax advice  in the terms of service/on 
boarding documentation she signed (also in October 2016)  the fact is that it 
undertook such a responsibility (or a comparable responsibility) by its actions and by 
its expressions to her, so it was obliged to discharge it properly and is liable for failing 
to do so.
In addition, or in the alternative, JPM had a regulatory, contractual and legal duty to 
provide its advice on the transfer with reasonable skill and care. Part of that was the 
duty to advise her on conducting the transfer in a tax efficient manner. That did not 
necessarily require tax advice in the form within JPMs disclaimer, it only required 
advice on the potential for the tax liabilities that could arise from the transfer. 
In addition to failing to advise her on the potential tax liabilities that could arise from 
the transfer, JPM also failed  in the course of its transfer advice  to refer her to 
obtain tax advice separately/independently.
In summary, the need for mitigation of her exposure to potential tax liabilities in the 
course of the transfer was an element that could not reasonably be ignored and 
could not reasonably be divorced from JPMs overall advice on the transfer. Even if it 
could not give tax advice it was obliged to, at least, highlight this need and refer her 
to take advice for it. 
JPM says:
Primarily, it holds no responsibility for tax advice and acceptance of this was 
confirmed by Ms L when she agreed its terms of service (which expressly stated and 
informed her about this disclaimer). It was not in a position to give tax advice and did 
not present itself as being in such a position.
The facts of the case show that its role in advising Ms L on the transfer was distinct 
from the separate role of advising her on the tax implications of the transfer. She had 
a named tax adviser actively involved in the overall transfer process so she (and that 
adviser) knew that responsibility for tax advice did not rest with JPM  and that it 
rested with the tax adviser. There is a transcript of a telephone call, on 5 September 
2016, between JPM and her tax adviser which illustrates this.
Crystallisation of capital gains in the portfolio naturally resulted in the Capital Gains 
Tax (CGT) liability she incurred.
It is not uncommon for its advisers to recommend obtaining updated gains/loss 
reports for inbound portfolios in the context of the clients potential tax burden. 
However, the purpose is to obtain such information for the tax adviser to consider 
and address. It is never intended  and was not intended in Ms Ls case  to mean 
JPM assumed liability to advise on the tax implications of the transfer. 
The main contents of the meeting notes Ms L has cited show that JPMs 
consideration of costs of transfer did not extend to tax liabilities and was instead 
focused on the investment related potential costs of transfer.
In any event, there is telephone call evidence  from 14 October 2016  which shows 
that the adviser informed Ms L that there may be a tax impact as a result of the 
transfer. She was alerted to this at the time. However, it remains the case that it was 
not obliged to give tax advice and its terms of service included confirmation that 
providing information about a potential tax impact would not amount to tax advice.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She referred to evidence of notices to Ms L  including within the terms of service 
she signed and agreed  that JPM did not provide tax advice, that such advice is important 
for investment decisions and that she should ensure such advice is obtained 
separately/independently. She also referred to the involvement of her accountant during the 
transfer and a tax pack that was sent to him (and her) which does not suggest there was any 
tax advice directly from JPM. Overall, she did not consider that evidence supported the 
assertion that JPM gave false or any advice.
Ms L disagreed with this outcome and said it is not her claim that JPM gave false or any 
advice, instead it is her claim that it undertook responsibility for and ought to have given 
such advice (or information) but did not. She also maintained her key arguments (as 
summarised above). The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint. I do not consider that evidence shows JPM undertaking an 
obligation to address the potential for tax liabilities arising from the transfer or an obligation 
to give her notice about the nature of that potential.
I agree with the following points made by Ms L:
The tax implications of investment advice and/or investment decisions cannot 
reasonably be separated or ignored in the overall context of making or managing 
investments.
There is evidence of JPMs awareness that the potential for tax implications of the 
transfer was a matter Ms L had to consider.
The least JPM was obliged to do was to share such awareness with Ms L and, if it 
considered that it was not its responsibility to address tax matters, inform her of the 
need to obtain tax advice on such tax implications.In the context of these points (above), and based on available evidence, I find the following:
As the investigator said, reasonably clear and prominent notices about tax advice 
were given to Ms L within the terms of service she agreed. Those notices confirmed 
that JPM did not give tax advice, that it strongly recommended she obtain 
independent tax advice for her investments and that, with her consent, it would 
provide all account and/or investment information required by a/her tax adviser.
In an email from JPM to Ms L on 7 September 2016, JPM referred to her tax 
adviser/accountant by name and to a conversation that had been held with that 
adviser with regards to her tax position in the portfolio. The email also confirmed 
JPMs readiness to continue working with the adviser in this respect.
There is a transcript of a conversation between JPM and the tax adviser which 
appears to be the conversation referred to in the email of 7 September. The 
conversation happened on 5 September and it included discussions about a number 
of tax related issues in Ms Ls portfolio. The transfer was also addressed in the 
conversation. JPM shows, in the transcript, deference to the tax adviser in terms of 
advising on Ms Ls tax position. There is also evidence in the transcript of its 
commitment to work closely with the tax adviser for the same purpose.
As Ms L highlighted, on 19 October she met with JPM and reference is made, in the 
notes for that meeting, to obtaining an updated gain/loss report on the portfolio in 
order to spread the tax burden. This was said by JPM, during the meeting, with 
regards to the transfer in kind of a particular asset in the portfolio and the 
recommended liquidation of other assets in the portfolio.
Available evidence shows that JPM does not appear to have denied the importance 
of tax advice as a part of [Ms Ls] investment related decisions  so there does not 
appear to be a dispute over this point. JPM also does not appear to have concealed 
its awareness of tax implications potentially arising from the transfer  and I have not 
seen submissions from it (in response to the complaint) which suggest it was not 
aware. As such, there appears to be no dispute over this point too. 
JPM discharged its minimum obligation to share its awareness with Ms L  it did this 
through her tax adviser on 5 September and then directly to her on 19 October when 
it mentioned the need for the updated gains/loss report with regards to her tax 
burden. I also consider that it discharged its minimum obligation to inform her of the 
need to take independent tax advice on the tax implications of her investment 
decisions. It did this at the outset of the relationship and within the terms of service 
she read, understood and agreed to  her signature of those terms confirming that 
she had read, understood and agreed to them. I am satisfied that this constituted 
notice that was relevant to her relationship with JPM as a whole, and especially to 
the transfer process that was happening around the same time  which also 
suggests that the notice would have been fresh in her memory at the time.
I am persuaded by JPMs argument that its treatment of and advisory responsibility 
for costs of transfer in the meeting of 19 October was limited to investment related 
costs and did not extend to potential tax liabilities. Overall, the notes of that meeting 
support this argument. But for the updated gains/loss report that was mentioned, the 
rest of the notes relates mainly to investment related (non-tax related) 
considerations. 
Deference shown by JPM to the tax adviser (during the call of 5 September) on the 
matter of Ms Ls tax position, and the same displayed (with reference to the tax 
adviser) in its email to her on 7 September, provides further support for the distinction 
that existed between the investment related aspects of the transfer undertaken by 
JPM and the tax related aspects of the transfer which JPM understood to be the tax 
advisers domain. Its email to Ms L on 7 September essentially conveyed this 
understanding to her and I have not seen any other representation that said the 
opposite, so I do not agree with her assertion that there was a mutual understanding that JPM would advise on her tax position after obtaining the updated gains/loss 
report. Instead, it appears that JPM intended to work closely with the tax adviser, 
provide relevant information (including any updated gains/loss report it received) to 
him and take his advice/guidance on her tax position.
Overall and on balance, there is no evidence of a contractual obligation upon JPM to 
have provided Ms L with tax advice; there is a lack of evidence that it ever undertook 
such an obligation (expressly or implicitly); there is evidence that it duly notified her 
about the need to address her tax position as part of the transfer; there is evidence 
that her tax adviser was involved in the transfer process, which carries the implication 
that JPM and her tax adviser mutually understood that the latter was to lead in 
advising and guiding on Ms Ls tax position; and there is also evidence that Ms L 
understood the same or, at least, was informed about JPM working under her tax 
advisers guidance in this respect. 
I do not consider that grounds exist to uphold Ms Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman