DRN-3069515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2006. Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. The policy covered Mr C, in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application documents said the PPI was optional and was not a 
condition of the mortgage. Its recorded that Barclays advisor asked about Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances, and that Mr and Mrs C felt Mrs C had adequate protection in case of 
sickness or unemployment, but not Mr C. The advisor recommended PPI to cover Mr C  
and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement. Mr and Mrs C were given the option 
to proceed with this recommendation or turn it down, and they signed to confirm their choice 
to proceed. They also signed and submitted an application for PPI, and set up a direct debit 
specifically to pay for it. The cost of the PPI was also set out separately to the cost of the 
mortgage  it was not part and parcel of the lending. And their mortgage offer reiterated that 
Mr and Mrs C did not have to buy any insurance from Barclays if they didnt want to. Overall, 
I think that Barclays made Mr and Mrs C aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that they chose to take it at the time. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like they felt Mrs C didnt need cover, so it was set up for Mr C only. And it looks like 
Mr C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of Mr Cs existing benefits and shored up 
the gap between his sick pay and his normal pay once his sick pay reduced. And its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs C had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost 
their home. So the policy could have been useful for them in protecting their home.
The cost of the policy and its benefit were set out clearly. So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve 
understood how much they would need to pay for it and what it could pay out. 
It is possible that Barclays didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But 
as I said above, Mr C does not appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
So having carefully considered the evidence, I dont find this policy to have been mis-sold.
Lastly, I understand that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way Barclays handled their 
complaint. Strictly speaking, this is not something I can consider. Thats because I can only 
consider complaints about regulated activities  such as selling insurance. But handling 
complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself. So I cant consider those points. In any 
case, Barclays have offered Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for the way it handled their 
complaint. If theyd like to accept that, they can let us know.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the sale of 
their PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman