DRN-3501475
The complaint
Mr H complains that OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB) hasnt complied with regulations when 
his bond matured. He also complains about OSBs actions when he made a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
Mr H had a fixed rate bond with OSB that was due to mature on 24 July 2021. On 7 July Mr 
H sent OSB instructions relating to maturity. He later received a form from OSB to complete. 
Mr H was unhappy about this as hed already given his instructions and he didnt receive this 
form until 19 July 2021  a few days prior to maturity.
Mr Hs bond matured on 26 July 2021  the first working day after the maturity date and the 
proceeds were sent to his bank. Mr H says he didnt receive his certificate of interest and to 
date hasnt received a closing statement. 
Mr H sent in a number of letters that he says havent been responded to. He also made a 
DSAR request and is unhappy about the way in which OSB carried this out and sent it.
Our Investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He explained that he 
couldnt see OSB had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said the critical 
issue is whether OSB has complied in full and in a timely fashion with all of its prevailing 
legal and regulatory obligations to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has sent in a number of letters highlighting his complaint points. Ive considered all of 
his points but Ive not responded to each one individually in this decision. Rather, Ive 
focused on the crux of the issue here which is whether OSB has done something wrong.
Mr Hs bond maturity
Mr H sent OSB maturity instructions as he was aware his bond was due to mature on 24 
July 2021. I can see it actually matured the following working day which was the 26 July 
2021. On the date that OSB received Mr Hs instructions, it had sent him a maturity form  
so Mr Hs communication and OSBs communication crossed over. I can see OSB sent Mr H 
an email to acknowledge it had received his maturity instructions which I dont think was 
unreasonable.
Mr H didnt receive the maturity form until 19 July 2021. I can imagine it caused him some 
frustration given hed already sent in instructions, but I dont think this is OSBs fault. And as 
I can see it acknowledged his maturity instructions and the maturity was processed in line 
with these, I cant see that Mr H has suffered any detriment.
I can see that Mr H spoke to OSB on the phone on 26 July 2021 to confirm the instructions 
had been received. Ive listened to this call. OSB confirmed it had his instructions, and 
explained as the maturity date was a Saturday it would mature on that date and hell receive 
the funds in the next two days. OSB also confirmed it had received his original instructions 
and confirmed the closing balance. OSB gave Mr H all the details he needed and 
confirmation that his bond had matured.
On the same day OSB sent Mr H both his certificate of interest and a letter confirming the 
bond had matured. I consider this to be sufficient information to provide Mr H and that OSB 
has complied with his regulatory duties to him. When Mr H said he hadnt received it, OSB 
sent further copies both in August and October. I cant see it has done anything wrong. I 
think it dealt with Mr Hs bond maturity and queries in a timely manner.
Mr H says OSB hasnt sent him a closing statement  but I consider the letter dated 26 July 
2021 which shows his interest and closing balance, as well as the certificate of interest to be 
sufficient. This was a fixed rate bond with only one deposit at the start. There were no other 
transactions. Although I can see OSB did generate a statement for Mr H, which I think was 
reasonable after hed complained he didnt have one.
DSAR
Mr H has complained about the way OSB handled his DSAR. He had asked for it to be sent 
by standard post but OSB sent it by special delivery. Mr H said he didnt receive it. I dont 
think that the method by which OSB sent it was unreasonable. And, when Mr H said he 
hadnt received it, it arranged to send it again. I can see this was done without delay.
Mr H has said the key issue is whether OSB has complied with its prevailing obligations to 
him. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that it has. Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that OSB has acted unfairly or made any errors whilst dealing with Mr Hs bond maturity.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman