DRN-2717052
The complaint
Ms Q says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
In 2007 Ms Q took out a mortgage. Just over a year later, she took out a PPI policy with 
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) to protect her monthly mortgage repayments if she 
was unable to work. The policy was later transferred to St Andrews Insurance Plc, which 
has taken responsibility for this complaint. But Ill refer to the business as HIIL to keep things 
simple.
Ms Q applied for the PPI by post. She paid a monthly amount for the PPI. The monthly 
benefit payable under the policy was equal to 133% of Ms Qs monthly mortgage payment. 
The policy would have paid this for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms Q disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Qs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Qs told us she applied for the mortgage in her local branch, and was told that the 
PPI was being added to her mortgage, but wasnt told that it was optional. 
But Im satisfied that Ms Q actually applied for the PPI by post, more than a year after 
taking out her mortgage. So I dont think shed have thought she needed it in order to get 
the mortgage. Whats more, the welcome letter Ms Q was sent after she took out the 
policy referred to her having chosen the cover and set out her right to cancel it. 
Taking everything into account, I think it would have been clear to Ms Q that the PPI was 
optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice  although 
I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
Ms Q applied for the PPI by post. I think its unlikely that she had any contact with HIILs 
staff when she completed the application. So I dont think HIIL recommended the policy 
to Ms Q or gave her advice about it. This means it didnt need to check that the policy 
was suitable for Ms Q. It was for Ms Q to decide whether she wanted to take the cover, 
knowing what alternative means shed have had of making her monthly mortgage 
repayments if shed been off sick or lost her job. But HIIL did need to give Ms Q enough 
information to enable her to decide for herself whether the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information HIIL gave Ms Q about the policy wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Ms Q chose to take out the PPI. So it 
looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that 
now. Based on what Ive seen of her personal circumstances at the time, Ms Q was 
eligible for the PPI, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things it didnt cover. 
I acknowledge that Ms Qs told us shed have been entitled to at least six months full 
pay, followed by six months half pay from her employer at the time if shed been off sick. 
And she says shed have received a good redundancy package. But the policy would 
have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident or sickness. Thats 
longer than Ms Qs told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have 
paid the same level of benefit if shed been made redundant. Whats more, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Ms Q received from her employer. So 
she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ms Qs mentioned that she had some savings when she took out the PPI. But Ive borne 
in mind that shed chosen to protect those savings, rather than taking out a smaller 
mortgage. And having the PPI would have meant that she didnt have to use her savings 
to meet her monthly mortgage payments if shed been off sick, or if shed lost her job.
The mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, secured on Ms Qs 
property. And the consequences of falling behind with her mortgage payments could 
have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been 
useful for her. 
The cost of the policy was shown clearly on the Mortgage Repayments Cover 
Acceptance Form. So Ms Q would have known how much shed need to pay for the 
cover each month when she completed the direct debit instruction on the form. And since 
she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time without further cost 
if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I dont think Ms Q would have made a different 
decision about taking out the PPI even if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think shed still have chosen to take the cover. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman