DRN-4261161
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by Vitality Health Limited to turn down his private medical 
insurance claim, and apply a retrospective exclusion. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr G switched his private medical insurance cover to Vitality. His broker 
arranged the switch.
In January 2023 Mr G made a claim for treatment as he was experiencing bilateral knee 
pain. Vitality thought Mr G had failed to disclose previous issues with his knees when taking 
out the policy. It said if it had known the information, it would have added an exclusion for 
disorders of both knees and related conditions. 
Vitality therefore added the exclusion retrospectively and turned down the claim. Unhappy 
with this, Mr G brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for Vitality to conclude there had been misrepresentation, and therefore apply 
the exclusion and turn down the claim. 
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with 
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
As part of the application, Mr G (or his broker on his behalf) was asked:
In the last 3 years, have you or any other person to be insured:
Experienced symptoms;
Received any advice from a healthcare professional;
Received treatment or have treatment planned or expected;
for any physical, mental health or psychiatric condition?
The application explained that treatment meant:
medical care (including diagnostics and tests), investigations, surgery, medication (including 
over the counter), therapy or advice, provided for an illness, disease, injury or ailment?
I think the question was clear, and the answer given by Mr G/his broker was yes. 
The application then asked:
When did youlast experience symptoms, receive advice from a healthcare professional, or 
receive any treatment (including prescribed or over the counter medication) relating to the 
following?...Please advise us of the most recent time period for each condition.
The application then listed various conditions, including arthritis, joint pain or injury.
A note accompanied this which said This excludes fully resolved symptoms which have 
lasted for less than one week in total, and do not result in any limitation of activity. Recurring 
episodes of the same condition must be declared even if each episode lasts for less than 
one week. You must tell us about any current symptoms regardless of how long they have 
lasted.
Again, I think the question was clear. Mr G/his broker answered Not in the last three years 
or never. 
Ive looked at Mr Gs medical history. I see that in the three years before taking out the 
policy, Mr G had experienced recurring pain in both knees, sought medical advice for this, 
and had received treatment. Im satisfied that Mr G/his broker therefore ought to have 
answered yes to the above question regarding arthritis, joint pain or injury, and so there 
was misrepresentation. 
Mr G says that Vitality was already aware of his knee problems, as hed made a claim under 
a previous policy hed held with Vitality. However, as our investigator has explained, we 
would not expect an insurer to cross-reference claims made under past policies. Regardless 
of any previous claims made, Mr G still needed to take reasonable care to answer the 
questions asked correctly. 
Vitality has shown this Service that if it had known of Mr Gs previous knee problems, it 
would have applied an exclusion for disorders of both knees and related conditions. That 
means the misrepresentation was qualifying, according to CIDRA.
I agree with Vitality that the misrepresentation was careless, as I appreciate that Mr G was 
not attempting to deliberately mislead Vitality. 
The remedy available to Vitality under CIDRA is that it can apply the exclusion 
retrospectively to the policy, as it has done. It follows that it was appropriate for Vitality to 
turn down the claim, as this fell under the exclusion.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman