DRN-2012026
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr C complain about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has handled a 
medical expenses claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 9 December 2019, Mrs A and Mr C took out an annual travel insurance policy through a 
price comparison website. Mrs A developed an abscess and saw her GP on 21 December 
2019. She was prescribed antibiotics. She and Mr C travelled as planned on 23 December 
2019. Unfortunately, she had to seek medical treatment abroad on 24 December 2019, as 
her abscess had worsened. Mrs A and Mr C made a medical expenses claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
IPA investigated the claim. It told Mrs A itd need copies of her medical records for the two 
years before the policy was taken out. Mrs A and Mr C gave their consent for it to do so. But 
IPA actually requested the GPs records dating back for the two years from 23 December 
2019. So it noted Mrs A had seen the GP on 21 December 2019 and initially turned down 
the claim on the grounds that her abscess was a pre-existing medical condition, which was 
excluded by the policy terms.
Mrs A and Mr C were very unhappy that IPA had requested information for a time period 
which wasnt within the two years before they took out the policy and which they hadnt 
agreed to.
IPA apologised for its error in not limiting its information request to the two years prior to 9 
December 2019  the actual purchase date of the policy. It told Mrs A and Mr C itd referred 
the error onto the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
While itd reviewed the relevant records though, it noted that Mrs A had been diagnosed with 
a fibroid and a kidney stone in December 2018 and had been receiving treatment for neck 
and back problems. The policy specifically excluded cover for all pre-existing medical 
conditions. IPA said Mrs A and Mr C wouldve been asked whether they had any medical 
conditions during the sale of the policy. If theyd declared that Mrs A had pre-existing 
medical conditions, theyd never have been able to take out this particular policy and 
wouldve been directed to another policy on the price comparison website which did cover 
pre-existing medical conditions. So it offered to cancel the policy and refund the premium 
Mrs A and Mr C had paid.
Mrs A and Mr C werent happy with IPAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs A and Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She considered 
the relevant legislation, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA. She felt Mrs A and Mr C had been asked clearly whether Mrs A had any pre-
existing medical conditions during the policy sale. Shed looked carefully at Mrs As medical 
records. She noted Mrs A had undergone investigations and had been diagnosed with 
kidney stones and a fibroid around a year before the policy was taken out. And that shed 
been prescribed medication for neck and back pain during the relevant period. So she 
thought Mrs A shouldve answered yes to IPAs question and so shed made a 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
The investigator was satisfied that if Mrs A had answered the question correctly, IPA would 
never have sold her and Mr C that policy and instead, they wouldve been directed to 
policies which did cover pre-existing medical conditions. This meant she felt it was fair for 
IPA to apply the remedy for careless misrepresentation available to it under the Act  to 
cancel the policy and refund the premiums.
Our investigator also considered whether IPA needed to pay Mrs A and Mr C any 
compensation for its error in requesting medical information which wasnt relevant to the 
policy sale. She accepted Mrs A and Mr C had likely been upset by the error. But she noted 
IPA had apologised for its mistake and had referred it on to the ICO. So she didnt think IPA 
needed to do anything more.
Mrs A and Mr C disagreed. They said they took their personal information very seriously and 
that AXAs apology wasnt enough to put things right. They felt itd been a breach of privacy 
and trust and it had had a significant impact on Mrs A. Shed never wanted the details of her 
GP appointments for the abscess seen by anyone. They said theyd been caused mental 
trauma by AXA initially turning down the claim for the wrong reason. They felt compensation 
of around £1500 would be broadly appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not telling IPA to do anything more. Ill explain why.
The sale of the policy
Mrs A and Mr C havent responded to the investigators assessment as to whether IPA acted 
fairly and reasonably when it turned down their claim and cancelled their policy, other than to 
say they were caused mental trauma when it initially turned down the claim for the wrong 
reason. So it seems they now accept the investigators view on that issue. However, for 
completeness, Ill also consider this point here.
When Mrs A and Mr C took out the policy online, they were asked information about 
themselves, their trip and their medical conditions. IPA used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mrs A and Mr C and if so, on what terms.
IPA says that Mrs A and Mr C didnt correctly answer the questions they were asked when 
the policy was sold. This means the principles set out in CIDRA are relevant. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mrs A and Mr Cs claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to correctly answer 
an insurers questions and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So Ive looked carefully at 
what Mrs A and Mr C were asked when they took out the policy.The sale was carried out through a price comparison website. Mrs A and Mr C were asked to 
confirm the following important information:
Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered
any medical condition that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment,
including surgery, tests or investigations?
IPA maintains that the answer to this question was yes and that Mrs A and Mr C shouldve 
chosen to click the box which stated show me policies for people with medical conditions. 
So Ive looked at Mrs As medical records to decide whether I think the answer to the 
question shouldve been yes.
I can see that Mrs A saw the GP in February and April 2019 with ongoing chest pain and 
was prescribed medication. I can also see that in December 2018, Mrs A had been 
diagnosed with a fibroid and a kidney stone following an ultrasound. Shed also sought 
medical advice for back and neck pain in April 2018. All of these conditions fall within the 
scope of IPAs question and within the two years prior to the inception of the policy. So I 
think Mrs As answer to IPAs question shouldve been yes.
Overall, I think Mrs A and Mr C did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I 
think IPA is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. 
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt have entered into 
an insurance contract, its entitled to cancel the policy from the start and refund the 
premiums. IPA has shown that it would never have offered Mrs A and Mr C this policy if itd 
known about her medical conditions. So I think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to turn 
down the claim, cancel the policy and refund Mrs A and Mr Cs premiums.
IPAs data error
IPA asked for Mrs As medical records from her GP so it could look into whether or not she 
had had any pre-existing medical conditions within the two-year period prior to the point of 
sale  9 December 2019. IPA doesnt dispute that it shouldve only requested medical 
records which were relevant to the sale of the policy. Its apologised to Mrs A and Mr C and 
referred itself to the ICO  which is what I wouldve expected it to have done.
Its clear Mrs A and Mr C feel strongly about this issue. They say theyre private people and 
they didnt want IPA knowing about Mrs As follow-up appointments for her abscess. So I 
dont doubt that IPAs error did cause them some upset and caused them additional 
frustration.
But in deciding whether or not to award compensation for a policyholders distress and 
inconvenience where an insurer has done something wrong, I need to think about whether or 
not that distress and inconvenience is material. That means its significant enough to mean 
that an insurer should pay out for trouble and upset. 
In this case, I dont think Mrs A and Mr C have been caused material distress and 
inconvenience. While I appreciate what Mrs As said about the importance of her privacy, 
IPA wouldve also had medical details about her condition because it needed a medical 
report from the hospital abroad when it looked into her claim. So I dont think it learned 
anything unrelated to the condition that caused the claim as a result of its error. And I dont 
think Mrs A and Mr C have shown us that they lost out as a result of the mistake. I 
appreciate IPA originally turned down the claim on the basis of Mrs As appointment on 21 
December 2019 and that this mustve been confusing and upsetting. But because Im satisfied it was fair for IPA not to pay their claim, albeit for another reason, I dont think IPA 
needs to pay any compensation.
This means, while I sympathise with Mrs A and Mr Cs position, that Im satisfied IPAs 
apology for its mistake is fair and reasonable. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs A and Mr Cs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman