DRN-2460775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited repaired
their car following a claim under their motor policy.
As most of our correspondence and contact has been with Mr W, I shall just refer to him
throughout this decision.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr W was involved in an accident and his car sustained side impact
damage. He made a claim to Admiral who agreed to repair it.
The repair took a long time and Mr W wasnt satisfied with the standard of the repairs. An
independent assessor agreed some further work needed to be done. Whilst all this was
going on Mr W said Admiral would pay the market value of the car but then it changed its
mind. He also said Admiral took back the courtesy car which meant he had to buy a new car.
Mr W now says that his car is undriveable and Admirals repairers caused more damage to it
and its value has substantially decreased.
Admiral agreed further work needed to be done and had previous paid Mr W £500
compensation. In addition, it agreed to pay cash in lieu of repairs of £240. A further £200
compensation. £105 goodwill gesture for car tax, £40 goodwill gesture for MOT, plus
£172.99 for a new battery including £25 compensation.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He wanted Admiral to pay the
market value of the car. If not, then repair the car to his satisfaction including the engine 
faults and service along with reimbursing him for insurance costs and the interest on his 
credit card given, he said he had to buy a new car when Admiral changed its mind on paying 
him the market value.
The investigator thought Admiral should respray the whole car to ensure the repaired body
work matched. But other than that, she didnt think Admiral had to do anything more than it
had already offered. Mr W didnt agree the cash in lieu of repairs figure was enough and
wanted it broken down. Admiral didnt agree to the respray of the car. The investigator then
suggested Admiral attend the car to refit the battery, but Admiral disagreed, and she also
suggested Admiral have the cash in lieu of repairs broken down too. Mr W remained of the
view that what the investigator suggested wasnt enough.
So as neither party agreed the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June and I said the following: 
Admirals duty under the policy is to repair the damage caused in the accident, only.
Obviously if its approved repairers failed to repair the car properly or caused further 
damage it is also responsible for fixing those issues too. However, its Admiral 
decision and not Mr Ws whether the costs of the repair mean it should write the car 
off and pay him the market value. Ive seen no evidence to show me that Admiral 
agreed to pay Mr W the market value and then reneged. Certainly, it was discussed 
by one of Admirals advisers as the investigator detailed, but at no stage was it 
agreed. And until it was agreed and formally offered to Mr W by Admiral, I see no 
reason for Mr W to have acted on it. Its also clear to me from what Mr W said that at 
the time of the accident they were in any event planning on getting a new car, which I 
think has influenced Mr W throughout.
Mr W said because of this discussion, he gave back the courtesy car and bought 
himself a new car. But the call recording shows Mr W asked Admiral to collect the 
courtesy car as he had organised to but a new car. And hes claiming Admiral should 
pay the interest on his credit card for this purchase consequently. On the evidence, 
there is no reason why Admiral is responsible for this in my view.
Now turning to the repairs, I consider the first issue to consider is what the 
independent assessors said. I appreciate Mr W thinks this first assessor isnt 
independent, but Ive seen no evidence of this. Motor insurers instruct such 
assessors in disputes over the repairs regularly as a means of an independent 
assessment of the damage caused the in the accident, the repair already undertaken 
and any outstanding issues. We consider that to be good practice too. 
Here in this case given the extent of Mr Ws complaints and issues we
have two independent assessors, which I consider more than fair and reasonable.
The first assessor who I shall call M confirmed as early as 27 September 2019 that 
the repairs were then fine. The second assessor who I shall N said subject to minor 
issues for which a cash in lieu settlement of £150 to £200 could be paid, the repairs 
were fine on 3 February 2020. Im further not persuaded all that Mr W said was 
wrong with the car was wrong with it. Some of that was historic pre-accident issues 
given his car was old. 
Further there were instances when Mr W was complaining about the cars steering 
pulling but also saying it was undriveable because the battery was flat. Its clear from 
the numerous reports the battery was at the end of his life and not holding its charge 
and there are numerous reports of Mr W saying the car wasnt driveable, so Im not 
persuaded he had much chance to assess the alleged steering issues, if at all.
However, Im not a motor engineer so I can only assess the evidence submitted and 
indeed what Admiral have agreed to date. Im persuaded overall the repairs as 
confirmed by both assessors are largely fine. Mr W has not produced any 
independent evidence of his own to substantiate his concerns. So, I shall take each 
of the remaining issues in turn following on from the investigators view.
Engine management faults and bonnet warning lights.
There is no evidence from both assessors reports that either the accident or 
the approved repairers has caused these issues. The engine management 
faults are shown to have been historic. Therefore, I dont consider Admiral 
has any duty under the policy to deal with this.
The issue of the paintwork and the cash in lieu settlement.
I can understand why Admiral believes a total re-spray of the car is 
unwarranted. Mr Ws car is an older car, so the paintwork issue doesnt 
detract from the market value price. To respray the entire car would be a 
significant form of betterment for Mr W given the age of his car and I dont 
consider Admiral has any duty to do this. The assessor called N does recommend the paint is blended on the right-
hand side of the front bumper. I consider this is a reasonable way forward 
instead. This forms part of the cash in lieu settlement and N has now itemised 
the costs as being three hours labour of £85 plus £75 materials. Plus, he 
thinks a light flat and polish to both front wings and the near side front door 
should be done which hes itemised at one hours labour at £28.
Lastly there is a screw missing from glass scraper trim on the near side front 
door which he said costs £5. The total amounts to £192 as now broken down 
by Admiral. Therefore, the cash in lieu settlement is now appropriately broken 
down in my view and appears reasonable to me to include blending the new 
and old paint which is an industry standard method of dealing with this.
The battery, its casing and the fitting of it. 
Admiral has agreed to pay for a new battery and battery cover. Its clear from 
the evidence that Ive read, that the battery was nearing the end of its life in 
any event and wasnt holding its charge. Theres also no evidence showing 
the battery was damaged in the accident. But given the delays, I consider it 
was reasonable Admiral has agreed to fund this which it did in February 2020. 
I dont consider Admiral must attend to fit the new battery however, given its 
a normal maintenance issue in any event. Further Admiral has said the 
photos of when the car was given back to Mr W should the battery cover to be 
in the rear footwell.
Service of car, brakes changed and oil change 
These are standard maintenance issues and I dont agree Admiral has any 
duty to pay for these, irrespective of the delays.
Lastly dealing with compensation, Admiral had already paid Mr W £500 
compensation covering the delays up to January 2020. This is a substantial amount 
of compensation in my view and more than I would have awarded for this time period 
had none already been paid. Admiral now in addition to the cash in lieu settlement 
discussed above, plus the new battery and battery cover has agreed to pay another 
£200 compensation, plus £105 towards the car tax, plus £40 towards the MOT.
Whilst there were issues with this repair, I think a total of £700 compensation, plus 
£145 for tax and MOT, plus the cash in lieu of repairs, plus the new battery and cover 
is more than enough given what went wrong here. 
Since Admiral had dealt with these issues before Mr W brought his complaint to us, 
therefore Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Im aware that Mr W hasnt cashed some of the cheques sent by Admiral and I 
consider Admiral should ascertain from its own records what hasnt been cashed and 
then reissue those out of date and uncashed to Mr W.
Admiral said it had nothing to add. Mr W said the following:
He doesnt believe the car has been repaired  it was pulling to the left. The 
independent assessors missed the fact that there was a tooth missing on the 
steering rack. This was never repaired.
The body work wasnt repaired correctly which causes the bonnet to be 
incorrectly aligned which then cause the open bonnet alarm to sound.The car was returned with no fuel, a flat battery and an engine management 
fault plus the open bonnet alarm, along with the continual pulling to the left 
due to the damaged/broken steering rack. 
The delivery company delivering his car back to him had to jump start the 
battery which cause damage to the engine management system. As a RAF 
trained engineer, he knows this is what happens when a flat battery is jump 
started. His battery wasnt at the end of its life. It was maintained correctly.
He did drive the car and it was pulling and he has deemed it unsafe due to 
the faulty/damaged steering rack. 
Given the pandemic he wasnt able to get an independent engineer to verify 
the diagnosis. Admiral didnt tell the manufacturers main dealer of the fault on 
the steering rack it merely asked for a wheel alignment. 
The £500 compensation was for the loss of a holiday given that no courtesy 
car was available after the original broke down. That complaint was closed off 
in January 2020.
So, the compensation now offered doesnt cover the cost of the repairs.
The battery tray wasnt in the car and he saw photo showing that it was.
Hes firmly of the view that Admiral did say it would write off the car and then 
it changed its mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having again done so, I maintain my provisional decision that Admiral has done enough 
here.
There are two final response letters from Admiral one dated 5 January 2020 where much of 
Mr Ws issues were upheld and £30 was awarded for petrol cost and phones. £70 was 
awarded for handling and delays. And £400 was awarded for the trouble and upset caused. 
Making the total £500 compensation. In that letter it requested Mr W to provide any receipts 
about his holiday which was missed which Admiral would then refund. But this doesnt mean 
the £500 compensation was just for the holiday as Mr W has now said. The letter clearly 
identifies and agrees with many of Mr Ws complaints about the repair of his car.  It also 
confirms that the manufacturing main dealer did test drive the car. At that stage Mr W was 
complaining about the brakes and there was no issue with them. However, that dealer also 
confirmed no new steering rack was required. So, Mr W hasnt proved this issue with the 
steering rack.
 
In the final response letter of 11 February 2020, Admiral awarded £240 cash in lieu, a further 
£200 compensation, £40 goodwill gesture towards the next MOT and £105 goodwill gesture 
towards road tax. Much of the issues Mr W has raised here were dealt with by the second 
assessor. 
It remains that there is no independent evidence to substantiate Mr Ws concerns. As I 
explained Im not a motor engineer and therefore I can only assess matters on the evidence 
before me.  I appreciate Mr Ws qualifications, but his complaint issues do require 
independent verification given he wasnt accepting the opinions of the two independent 
assessors who assessed his car over and beyond the approved repairer and the 
manufacturers main dealer. Virtually all garages were working throughout pandemic 
lockdowns, given they were seen as an essential service. Notwithstanding that, Im more 
persuaded by the evidence of the two independent assessors which Admiral engaged for Mr W who I do consider to be wholly independent. Both have said the car was fine but for the 
cash in lieu issues for which Admiral has paid Mr W.
 
It remains therefore that I consider Admiral has done enough here. Save that as explained in 
my provisional decision Im aware that Mr W hasnt cashed some of the cheques sent by 
Admiral and I consider Admiral should ascertain from its own records what hasnt been 
cashed and then reissue those out of date and uncashed to Mr W.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman