DRN-3017218
The complaint
Mr M complains that he has been unable to withdraw funds held by National Savings and 
investments (NS&I).
 
What happened
Mr M has told us that he had to leave the country at short notice to look after a family 
member, so in August 2020 he tried to withdraw funds saved with NS&I. Mr M wasnt able to 
make the withdrawal online as he had forgotten his password. Mr M called NS&I and 
requested help. 
NS&I said it had to send Mr M information in the post to reset his password and couldnt 
email it. But Mr M has explained he couldnt wait for the letter before he had to leave for his 
trip. 
Mr M returned to the UK in March 2021 and contacted NS&I which asked him to provide a 
witnessed signature. Mr M says hes unable to comply with this request. 
Ultimately, Mr M complained and asked NS&I to close his account. NS&I responded but said 
Mr M needed to complete various steps that include providing a witnessed signature. NS&I 
also sent Mr M a form he could complete to close his account. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought NS&I had dealt with Mr Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M 
asked to appeal and said he had opened his account online and thinks its unfair that hes 
been unable to make a withdrawal in the same way. Mr M also said he wasnt told about the 
processes required to verify a signature and withdraw his money when he opened his 
account with NS&I.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has pointed out he opened his account online. But I think its reasonable to note that 
NS&I has asked for further information from Mr M after he informed it he needed to reset his 
online password. If that step hadnt been required, there wouldve been no barrier to Mr M 
making a withdrawal online. 
Mr M has explained that he was going abroad so couldnt receive the password reset letter 
in the post. I appreciate this caused inconvenience, but I have to balance that against NS&Is 
obligation to protect customers. Its explained the password rest correspondence cant be 
sent by email so it has to be posted. I appreciate that has impacted Mr Ms withdrawal 
request, but I havent been persuaded NS&I acted unfairly. 
NS&I says it needs a witnessed copy of Mr Ms signature. Mr M has told us that its not 
possible to find someone to witness as he has no one to do this for him. I take Mr Ms point, 
but Im not persuaded NS&Is request is unreasonably inconvenient. 
NS&I says anyone can witness Mr Ms signature except for a family member or someone 
else who lives at his address. Mr M hasnt explained exactly why hes been unable to find 
someone to witness his signature. But given that the qualifying criteria NS&I has provided 
only excludes family members and people he lives with, Im satisfied there are reasonable 
options open to Mr M. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I dont agree NS&I has acted unfairly 
by insisting he provides a witnessed copy of his signature to proceed. 
Mr M has told us the unreasonable procedures he feels NS&I has put in place werent made 
known to him when he opened his bonds. Whilst that may be the case, it wouldnt be 
practical for a business to tell prospective customers about each and every process, policy 
or procedure it has in place to administer an account. 
As Ive said above, I think NS&Is request that Mr M provide a witnessed signature is 
reasonable. And I havent found NS&I acted unfairly when it requested Mr M complete the 
various forms it sent to him. Im satisfied NS&I has followed its normal approach where a 
customer forgets their online credentials and needs assistance resetting the account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied NS&I has dealt with his complaint fairly, Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman