DRN-1738732
 
The complaint
Mr H says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 2003. The policy was taken out at the 
same time as Mr H applied for an Egg credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me. He said, in summary:
he'd just received a standard response from us. We hadn't addressed the issue that 
he didn't consent to taking out PPI;
he was eligible for the policy, having taken out the credit card he would've been. But 
he didn't need PPI because of his income and savings;
he would've declined PPI if there had been a conversation about it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H applied on line for PPI. Ive seen a sample of the screen he wouldve completed to 
apply for PPI. The options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. 
There was a 'yes' option to select PPI and a 'no' option not to take it. Canada Square said 
the customer had to select one of these options to proceed with their application. Canada 
Square's records, which note down what was recorded on the on line portal at the time, 
show that Mr H selected the 'yes' option to take out PPI. So, on balance, I think Canada 
Square made it clear to Mr H the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out - in other 
words he 'consented' to PPI being added to his account.
This was an online application. I've not heard that Canada Square assisted him to complete 
his application. So, I don't think Canada Square recommend the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable for him. It did have to give him information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading about the PPI, so that he could make an informed choice and decide if 
he wanted to buy it.
I agree its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been, for example it could've been clearer about the costs of the 
policy. But Mr H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
As our adjudicator explained Mr H wouldn't automatically have been eligible for PPI on the 
basis that his credit card application was successful, different criteria apply. Looking at Mr 
H's circumstances, I can see that he was eligible to take out the policy.
Ive considered all of Mr Hs comments  including his point that he was entitled to sick pay 
and had some savings, so he didn't need PPI. But, I dont think this made the policy 
obviously inappropriate. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and allowed 
him to use these for other household expenses. Having his credit card payments covered 
may have been important to him, and the PPI may have covered him for longer than his 
work benefits. Mr H said he had some savings, but his other means dont lead me to the 
conclusion that he wouldn't have taken the policy if given clearer information.
It follows that I don't think that Mr H has lost out because of anything that Canada Square 
did wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman