DRN-1328914
 
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the standard of repairs authorised by National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) following a claim made on a building warranty.
Mr F is represented by the management company of the property, who Ill refer to as H.
Background
H manages a property which was completed in 2011. The property consists of nine flats and 
is covered by a ten-year warranty provided by NHBC. 
In 2016, one of the residents, Miss R, made a claim to NHBC under section 3 of the building 
warranty. The area of concern relates to four external rendered pillars, which were capped 
by coping stones. Miss R said it appeared the render had been coming away from below the 
coping stones. There were also concerns about mould and damp in one of the flats.
NHBC sent a surveyor to the property to assess the claim. Following an initial inspection the 
surveyor recommended the claim be rejected, as he said the cost of the repairs didnt meet 
the Minimum Claim Value (MCV) of the policy.
H appointed its own surveyor who visited the property and refuted some of the findings 
made by NHBCs surveyor. Amongst other things, he said the first report didnt mention that 
the coping stones had been fitted without an overhang. He said this meant that water was 
tracking behind the render due to the deficient coping stones. He also had concerns about 
the effectiveness of the render applied.
NHBC sent a second surveyor to assess the property, and in September 2017 it said it 
would accept the claim. It proposed a schedule of works which included in summary:
Removing the render on all four bays down to the top of the first set of balcony doors
Preparing the brickwork to receive new render
Rerender the areas
Remove the coping stones and fit correctly, replacing with new stones if it is not 
possible to fit correctly using the existing ones
Repairs and decoration to the affected flat
 
NHBC asked the developer to carry out the repairs. There were some delays in applying the 
new render due to the cold weather and repairs were completed around April 2018.
H asked its surveyor to review the repairs. The surveyor said the coping stones had not 
been properly fitted. He also said the render had been patch applied, but there was still 
some defective render remaining, and the render colour was inconsistent with the rest of the 
building.NHBC sent another surveyor to inspect the repairs who agreed with Hs surveyor. NHBC 
then contacted the developer to query why the repairs hadnt been done in line with what 
had been agreed. It asked whether the developer would undertake the remaining works to 
leave a satisfactory finish to the render and replace the coping stones. The developer replied 
to say that the new position of the coping stones was performing, so it strongly believed no 
further staining would occur. NHBC presented this position to H and said no further work 
would be undertaken to replace the coping stones.
H disagreed with the developers comments. It said the repairs didnt meet NHBCs 
standards. It felt the repairs were done in a way that cut costs. And it had concerns about the 
repainting which it said would leave a mismatch with the side bay reliefs to the 
pillars. H referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. He found 
that the repairs carried out by the developer didnt meet NHBCs own requirements. He said 
that the overhangs ranged from 25mm to 33mm instead of the 40mm stated in the 
requirements. And he said that not enough time had passed to make a safe conclusion that 
the coping stones were now performing. He said the onus was on NHBC to implement a 
long-lasting and effective repair of the coping stones.
Our investigator didnt think the render paintwork had been done properly either. He found 
there was a colour mismatch and recommended NHBC paint the colour uniformly. In 
addition he said NHBC needed to repaint the side bays to match the render on the pillars. 
And he said NHBC needed to address the issue of water damage in one of the flats which 
was caused by the defective coping stones allowing water to leak through the roof.
NHBC accepted part of our investigators findings. It agreed to refund reasonable costs 
incurred by H in progressing the claim, subject to H providing evidence of these costs. And it 
agreed to carry out the remedial works on the flat affected by the water damage.
But NHBC didnt accept our investigators recommendation to replace the coping stones or in 
regard to the render being painted in a matching colour consistently. It said the requirements 
for the overhang to be 40 mm were not in place at the time of construction so it couldnt 
enforce the request to replace the coping stones. It also said the repair was guaranteed for 
six years, so if the coping stones failed during this time the liability would fall on the 
developer to put things right. 
NHBC felt the colour matching on the render was acceptable under the terms of the policy. 
And it didnt think the repainting of the side bays fell under this claim as they were a natural 
break in the property.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide the outstanding issues.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ill be upholding this 
complaint and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
As NHBC has accepted our investigators recommendation in regard to reimbursing the 
reasonable costs incurred by H, and the remedial works for the affected flat, I wont be 
commenting on them further in my decision. NHBC and H have also agreed that the 
repainting of the side bays falls outside of the scope of this particular claim. Whats left for me to determine is whether it was fair for NHBC to decline further repairs to 
the coping stones in line with the terms and conditions of the warranty. Ill also be 
considering whether it needs to do anything further in regard to the painting of the render for 
a consistent match.
Mr F claimed under a policy provided by NHBC. The policy covers problems with a newly 
constructed home that can be linked to a breach by the builder of one or more of NHBCs 
technical requirements (published in NHBCs Standards). And the value of this claim needs 
to exceed the MCV of the policy. NHBCs own technical requirements are not the same as 
the building regulations, so it will be the technical requirements on which I base my decision. 
In this case, Ive referred to NHBCs standards for 2011  the year the property was 
completed.
Ive considered the policy document that relates to Mr Fs policy. The policy terms in Section 
3, (which covers years 3 to 10 after the property is completed) state what NHBC will pay for:
the full cost, if it is more than £1000 indexed, of putting right any Damage in any of the 
following parts of the house And it defines Damage as Physical damage to a home 
caused by a defect.
The policy goes on to define a defect as The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement 
by the Builder or anyone employed by or acting for the Builder. It also states, Failure to 
follow the guidance supporting an NHBC Requirement does not amount to a Defect if the 
performance required by the NHBC Requirement is achieved by other means. 
NHBC has said there was no requirement for the coping stones to overhang by a specified 
distance in its building standards. It says the standards relating to the 40mm overhang of the 
coping stones relate to frost damage only. But I dont agree. Ive read the standards and they 
state copings and the like should be weathered and throated unless adequate alternative 
provision is made to protect the brickwork from saturation, frost damage, and staining. In 
the next section it states, Good brickwork detailing can limit persistent wetting of brickwork 
and reduce the risk of frost attack. For example: Copings should have a generous 
overhang, throatings of at least 40mm clear of the wall So I think the standards are clear 
in this instance that coping stones need to be throated  meaning they have a continuous 
groove or drip to prevent water running back towards the wall  and are at least 40mm clear 
of the wall to limit persistent wetting of the brickwork and the damage this could cause.
Ive next thought about whether the repairs done by the developer were such that it could 
reasonably claim to have achieved performance by other means to meet these 
requirements. 
Ive considered the photographs and reports provided from after the developers repairs. 
These show that grooves have now been cut into the underside of the coping stones in order 
to create an overhang. The developers view is that this would not allow rain water to track 
into the join between the coping stones and the render. Therefore it says the performance 
required by the NHBC requirement has been achieved. 
NHBCs own surveyor said the developers repairs were inadequate and not in line with what 
was agreed. And Hs surveyor said the same thing. They say the coping stones havent been 
suitably throated and the overhang is irregular across the four pillars. Based on what I can 
see from the photographs I agree the overhang is irregular across the four pillars and 
doesnt meet the 40mm throating requirements. There are also patches of render which 
arent uniform and differ in colour. When asked about this, NHBC hasnt been able to demonstrate that suitable throating has 
been done. I also havent seen enough evidence from the developer to safely conclude the 
repairs are performing. I agree with our investigators comments that not enough time has 
passed to demonstrate the repair as effective and long-lasting. So I dont think the repairs 
have been carried out in line with the original scope of works.
Having carefully considered both parties comments, I am not persuaded by NHBCs change 
in position at this late stage of the claim. It saw two expert reports, which both agreed the 
coping stones needed to be replaced. But it seems to have been influenced by the 
developers comments which suggest the required performance has been achieved by other 
means. Im not persuaded that it has. So Im going to require it to put things right by following 
the recommendations of the surveyors and replacing the coping stones with larger ones to 
create a sufficient overhang and throating.
It follows that replacing the coping stones will lead to some re-rendering of the property too. 
And I think it would be fair and reasonable for NHBC to ensure the finished paintwork on all 
the render matches in line with the original scope of works proposed in September 2017.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require National House-Building Council to:
Replace the coping stones with larger coping stones with the sufficient overhang and 
throating, in line with the 2011 requirements;
Arrange for the render to be painted in one uniform colour with the view to match this 
consistently
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman