DRN-3244690
The complaint
Miss C complains NRAM Limited wouldnt allow her to sell the property she owns jointly 
with her former partner without his signature. Shes unhappy the house sold with negative 
equity and about the effect that had on her credit file and professional situation. Miss C is 
concerned NRAM shared information with her former partner in breach of data protection 
legislation. And she also complains NRAM didnt contact her in the way shed requested.
What happened
Miss C and her former partner bought a property together in 2007 with a mortgage and 
additional loan from NRAM Limited.
By 2009 their relationship had broken down. As a result of what happened next, Miss C was 
left in the property and struggled to keep up the mortgage and other payments relating to 
the property, as her former partner wasnt contributing towards them.
In 2011 Miss Cs former partner put the property on the market. The property didnt sell, and 
arrears built up on the mortgage. Miss C was unhappy with how NRAM dealt with her in 
relation to those arrears. And Miss Cs former partner failed to provide NRAM with the 
information NRAM asked for so they could consider putting an arrangement to pay the 
mortgage in place.
In 2012 Miss C and her former partner accepted an offer for the property below the asking 
price and for less than they owed NRAM. The sale of the property was delayed because 
Miss Cs former partner failed to co-operate. Miss C planned to apply for a court order, so 
she had control of the sale. But NRAM took possession of the property before she 
managed to do that.
NRAM sold the property with a shortfall of around £92,500. NRAM agreed to an 
arrangement under which Miss C and her former partner would each pay £25 a month 
towards the shortfall. Although Miss C wasnt initially party to that agreement, she later 
agreed to make those payments.
Miss C was unhappy NRAM had shared with her the arrangement theyd reached with her 
former partner to pay the shortfall and was concerned theyd told him about her financial 
situation. NRAM didnt respond to Miss Cs concern but instead told her if she didnt review 
the arrangement to pay the shortfall, they would instruct a debt collection agency.
Miss Cs unhappy the debt, which she cant afford to pay, continues to tie her to her 
former partner. And shes worried about the ongoing impact of the debt on her financial, 
professional and personal situations.
Miss C wants NRAM to reduce the debt to a level she can realistically afford. She asked 
them to review her situation. When they wrote to her about that, NRAM sent a letter to her 
postal address, despite Miss C asking them to email her as she was away from home.
When Miss C complained to NRAM, they said shed made part of her complaint too late and 
didnt uphold the rest of her complaint.
NRAM had responded to a complaint by Miss C in November 2015 about being unable to 
sell the property without her former partners signature, the sale of the property at a shortfall 
and the problems this had caused with her work and credit file. Since Miss C hadnt brought 
that complaint to us within relevant time limits, we couldnt consider those issues as part of 
Miss Cs complaint here.
Our investigator considered those parts of Miss Cs complaint shed brought in time, namely, 
whether NRAM should be doing more to support Miss C in reducing her liability to the joint 
mortgage going forward and whether theyre treating her positively and sympathetically; and 
Miss Cs concerns NRAM had written to Miss C instead of emailing her as shed requested.
Our investigator felt the steps NRAM had taken to keep Miss Cs information safe and 
separate from her former partners were reasonable. And he thought the apology and 
compensation theyd offered of £50 was fair to compensate her for an error one of their 
staff made when trying to contact her former partner on Miss Cs phone number. Our 
investigator thought NRAMs policy of not corresponding by email for security reasons was 
fair too. So, he didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Since Miss C didnt agree with our investigators view, her complaint was referred to me to 
review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since my view about how to put things right differs from our investigators, Im making a 
provisional decision to allow the parties time to make further comments before I come to a 
final decision.
Miss Cs told us her former partner was abusive and Im grateful to her for sharing that 
information with us. Id like to reassure Miss C Ive taken this into account when 
considering her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about what she and NRAM have said 
in reaching my decision about those aspects of Miss Cs complaint were able to consider.
Miss C wants any ties with her former partner to be severed. I understand why Miss C 
would like things to be separated entirely, but NRAM is right to say they can pursue either 
or both of Miss C and her former partner for the shortfall. Thats because they are jointly 
and severally liable for it under the terms of the mortgage they took out together.
NRAM are entitled to consider the respective positions of Miss C and her former partner in 
deciding on steps to recover the shortfall. To do that, its reasonable for them to deal with 
the account as one - provided they take reasonable steps to avoid sharing any information 
that is personal to either Miss C or her partner. Ill refer to that further below.
I appreciate its inconvenient for Miss C to receive regular communication from NRAM 
about the shortfall. But its reasonable for NRAM to be in contact with Miss C from time to 
time. Arrangements to pay towards the shortfall are set for limited periods of time. Its fair 
for NRAM to check regularly whether Miss Cs financial circumstances have changed, as 
that could affect whether she can pay more - or less - in the future. It wouldnt be fair to ask 
NRAM to reduce or write off the debt as theyre entitled to be paid what theyre owed. But it is open to Miss C to discuss possible options with NRAM and Id expect NRAM to give fair 
consideration to any proposals Miss C makes, taking into account her financial situation 
from time to time.
Miss C was concerned in June 2021 when NRAM left a message for her former partner on 
her phone about discussing his arrangements for paying the shortfall  this made her 
worry theyd shared her contact information with him. Miss C says the voicemail was one 
of many calls and letters in which NRAM confused her details with her former partners 
and shes constantly anxious her details could be disclosed to him. I can understand the 
voicemail message was worrying for Miss C. And I acknowledge how concerned she is 
about her contact details being passed to her former partner, although she hasnt 
identified the other calls and letters shes referring to.
Its not clear whether NRAM were aware of how Miss Cs former partner had behaved 
towards her before around December 2020 when she made this complaint. But their 
records show a marital dispute marker was put on their file in around December 2012, 
which suggests they were aware they needed to keep information separate from then on. 
From what Ive seen, NRAM hasnt disclosed Miss Cs contact details to her former partner.
After this service started looking into Miss Cs complaint, NRAM apologised for Miss Cs 
concerns about whether her personal information had been shared with her former partner 
as a result of the June 2021 voicemail message. And they offered her £50 compensation. 
NRAM said theyd carried out a cursory investigation and couldnt find any evidence they 
had shared any personal information. I accept what NRAM say about that and it reflects 
what Ive seen. But I think NRAM should carry out a more detailed investigation and 
provide Miss C with confirmation, having done so, that they havent shared any of Miss Cs 
personal information with her former partner. If information has been shared, NRAM will 
have to follow appropriate procedures in line with the relevant data protection legislation.
NRAMs responses about how they communicate with Miss C have been contradictory. 
Theyve said, on the one hand, they dont hold a correspondence address for Miss C and, 
on the other, they could only write to her, not email her, about the arrangement to pay the 
shortfall.
In their response to Miss Cs complaint in January 2021, NRAM said theyd written to    
Miss C about taking legal action against her because the arrangement to pay couldnt 
continue indefinitely without a review. They said they couldnt correspond via email as they 
didnt consider it to be a secure method of communication.
I acknowledge NRAMs policy is not to correspond by email. But given Miss C is not 
always at home to receive post because of her job, I think NRAM should come to an 
arrangement, which is convenient for Miss C, about how to communicate going forward. 
This might include, for example, emailing to ask her to ring them, sending password 
protected letters attached to emails or letting her know that letters she needs to look at 
have been posted to her, so she can make arrangements to deal with them. I dont think 
its fair for NRAM simply to say they wont communicate with Miss C by email.
Bearing everything in mind, I uphold Miss Cs complaint. To put things right I think NRAM 
should do the following:
1. Carry out a detailed investigation into what happened when NRAM attempted 
to contact Miss Cs former partner on her phone in June 2021 and let Miss C 
know whether or not a data breach occurred.2. Discuss with Miss C and put in place ways of communicating with Miss C that 
are convenient to her.
3. Pay Miss C £150 for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of 
the message she received for her former partner on her phone and 
correspondence being sent to her by post, not email as shed asked.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct NRAM 
Limited to:
1. Carry out a detailed investigation into what happened when NRAM attempted 
to contact Miss Cs former partner on her phone in June 2021 and let Miss C 
know whether or not a data breach occurred.
2. Discuss with Miss C and put in place ways of communicating with Miss C that 
are convenient to her.
3. Pay Miss C £150 for the distress and inconvenience she suffered as a result of 
the message she received for her former partner on her phone and 
correspondence being sent to her by post, not email as shed asked.
Developments
Miss C hasnt made any comments on my provisional decision.
NRAMs confirmed their investigation into what happened when they attempted to contact 
Miss Cs former partner using her telephone number included finding the call and noting it 
had been recorded against Miss Cs former partners record. They concluded it was the 
result of human error when their agent mixed up the numbers. They provided evidence to 
show the phone number they have for Miss C is different from the number they have for her 
former partner. And they say they put a note on their system to ensure the same mistake 
didnt happen again.
NRAM have said again they dont correspond with any of their customers via email as they 
dont consider it to be a safe or secure method. Theyve provided evidence to show they 
dont currently hold a correspondence address for Miss C. And theyve suggested they can 
contact Miss C on the number they hold, or she can contact them, and they can then discuss 
an address at which to write to Miss C or an alternative telephone number to use.
NRAM agreed to increase the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im now satisfied NRAM investigated appropriately what happened when they called       
Miss Cs former partner on her number and have taken appropriate steps prevent it 
happening again. NRAM confirmed in their response to Miss Cs complaint there wasnt any 
evidence to suggest theyd shared Miss Cs personal data at the time. Im satisfied that 
confirmation was based on an appropriate investigation so theres no need for NRAM to do 
anything more. I wont ask NRAM to communicate with Miss C via email given their concerns about security 
of information. But they should come to an arrangement with Miss C about how they will 
communicate with her going forward that is convenient for her and takes into account that 
she is not always at home to receive post because of her job.
Subject to these points, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision for the reasons I set out there.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct NRAM Limited, within 28 days of Miss C accepting 
this decision, to:
1. discuss with Miss C and put in place ways of communicating with Miss C, other 
than email, that are convenient to her; and
2. pay Miss C compensation for distress and inconvenience of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman