DRN-3344591
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was irresponsibly provided to him.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Likely Loans had told us. And she didnt 
uphold the complaint as she thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated 
Mr H unfairly. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr H with a loan for £2,500.00 in February 2017. This loan had an 
APR of 65.9% and the total amount repayable of £4,965.12 was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of around £138. Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Hs application after 
he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr H could make the repayments he was committing to. On the other 
hand, Mr H has said the loan payments were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans did ask Mr H for some information on his 
income and expenditure. Likely Loans has also provided records indicating what the credit 
searches it carried out showed at the time. And having considered that information, which 
indicated that Mr H had 3 existing accounts which were being well maintained, I dont think 
there was anything which contradicted the rest of the information obtained, which in itself 
suggested Mr H could make the repayments in a sustainable manner.
I know that Mr H says his actual circumstances werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. But even having looked at 
the bank statement information provided, which Im not persuaded Likely Loans even 
needed to obtain, there isnt anything in this information which suggests the monthly 
payments were obviously unaffordable. 
Furthermore, the key thing here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended into doing anything further here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman