DRN-3179064
The complaint
Mr E complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118118 Money) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
118118 Money provided Mr E with a loan as follows:
Date loan 
takenAmount TermMonthly 
repaymentLoan status
15/09/2017 £1,000 24 
Months£96.83 Paid (settled 
early in 
February 2018)
Mr E complained that 118118 Moneys affordability checks were insufficient. He felt that if it 
had done proper checks it would have been apparent that the loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable for him. He told us that he was struggling to pay bills and needed to borrow to 
meet the repayments due to other lenders. He said he had a gambling addiction at the time 
and he was in a spiral of debt trying to manage his situation. 
118118 Money didnt uphold his complaint and this led to Mr E bringing his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think that 118118 Money had done anything wrong when it provided 
the loan and didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Es complaint.
118118 Money asked Mr E about his income and expenditure and also did its own credit 
checks in order to see how much Mr E was already paying towards servicing his existing 
debt and gain an understanding of his credit history.
Our investigator thought that 118118 Moneys checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan application. But I dont need to 
make a decision on that point because I dont think 118118 Money made a fair lending 
decision when it lent to Mr E based on the information it had in front of it.
I say this because I dont think 118118 Money thought carefully enough about what all 
the information it had gathered showed about Mr Es overall financial situation. 
118118 Money recorded a figure of around £1,500 for Mr Es monthly earnings and an 
amount of £350 in respect of his normal monthly spending on housing, household bills and 
food. It allowed for Mr E spending £200 per month on insurance and paying £100 monthly 
towards his existing card and loan credit commitments.
Keeping also in mind that Mr E told 118118 Money he intended to use its loan for debt 
consolidation, in other words, to repay other outstanding debt, 118118 Money was satisfied 
that this meant its loan would be comfortably affordable for Mr E.
But I think 118118 Money was aware from its credit checks that Mr E needed to pay 
around £1,631 towards outstanding short-term and unsecured loans it could see listed 
in his credit history and shown as outstanding and due. Not only was this more than 
the amount of disposable income 118118 Money had calculated that Mr E had 
available  it exceeded the amount 118118 Money had recorded as his monthly take 
home pay. As well as this, he also needed to pay £119 per month on a hire purchase 
agreement for a car. 
So I think that 118118 Money ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr E would be 
able to sustainably repay his loan over the two year term. 
And, in these circumstances, 118118 Money should reasonably have concluded that it 
was not fair to lend to Mr E.
And I think 118118 Money couldve seen from its credit checks that Mr Es total outstanding 
credit balance on expensive short-term and unsecured loan was more than £3,500. So, even if the loan 118118 Money provided was used for its stated purpose of debt consolidation, 
I dont think 118118 Money was able to safely say this wouldve improved Mr Es overall 
position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial 
situation. I think the scale of Mr Es debts, compared to the much smaller value of the loan, 
would suggest that he would inevitably remain extensively indebted. And if the total costs of 
servicing all his debt were properly taken into account I think 118118 Money should have 
realised that, in reality, making the monthly repayments for this loan would be beyond Mr Es 
means.
Alternatively, heres another way of looking at this complaint  which would still lead me to 
uphold it. 
The information in the credit report 118118 Money acquired was seriously at odds with what 
Mr E had told 118118 Money about his finances and clearly indicated extensive use of high 
cost short-term and unsecured loans. So I think this shouldve prompted the lender to do 
more in-depth checks because it didnt look like 118118 Money had a proper understanding 
of Mr Es financial situation given the contradictions in what it saw between what Mr E had 
said (or omitted to say) about his disposable income and his apparent reliance on expensive 
credit  especially bearing in mind how much he was borrowing and the fact that he was 
signing up to pay the loan for the next two years. 
118118 Money could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking. 
But Mr E has provided his bank statements from around the time of this loan and, in the 
absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide to Mr Es finances at the 
time. So Ive looked through these to see what 118118 Money was likely to have found out 
about his overall financial situation had it carried out more in-depth checks. 
And had 118118 Money looked more closely into Mr Es finances it would likely have seen 
that he was facing serious problems managing his money. His bank statements show that 
Mr E was spending heavily on gambling at the time  and effectively borrowing money to pay 
for this. And had 118118 Money done a proportionate check and seen this, I think it 
shouldve realised it shouldnt be providing the loan to Mr E as it wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for him in these circumstances.  
Ive thought carefully about the fact that Mr E settled the loan early. But this doesnt mean 
that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainably affordable. For all the reasons 
above, I think 118118 Money ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly 
lending was unlikely to help Mr E and more likely to increase his indebtedness over the 
longer term. 
So, for all these reasons, I am planning on upholding Mr Es complaint that he should not 
have been given this loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that 118118 Money acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr E in some other way. But as Mr E has been further indebted with a 
high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im 
satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 118118 Money did wrong. 
So, I think 118118 Money needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from either party and the deadline for responses has now 
passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the principal amounts that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr E shouldnt 
repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. As I understand the loan is now settled, 
118118 Money should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr E received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr E made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr E having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Es credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118118 
Money should give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118118 Money) to 
take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman