DRN-3085229
The complaint
Mr W complains about the settlement esure Insurance Limited has offered him following a 
claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his home insurance policy for accidental damage to one of his 
carpets.
To settle his claim, esure offered Mr W vouchers worth £982.65 or a cash settlement of 
£786.11 (in both cases, minus his policy excess).
Mr W is unhappy that esures cash settlement offer is less than the voucher offer. And he 
thinks esure should value his carpet at between £35 and £45 per square metre, rather than 
the £16.99 per square metre esure has offered him.
When esure didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, he brought it to us. The investigator who looked 
at it didnt uphold it. She thought esure was obliged only to pay Mr W what it would cost 
esure (and not Mr W) to replace the carpet. And she thought, based on the evidence shed 
seen, esures valuation of the carpet was fair.
Mr W disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws home insurance policy say its for esure to decide 
whether to repair, replace or cash settle Mr Ws claim. In this case, esure offered Mr W 
either vouchers or cash. The value of the vouchers it offered Mr W was higher than the cash 
amount. For various reasons, Mr W didnt want to accept the vouchers but was unhappy with 
the lower cash settlement.
Insurers sometimes offer vouchers to settle claims because they get a discount from the 
voucher supplier, which is why the voucher value is higher than the cash offer. As long as 
the voucher value is enough to allow a policyholder to buy a replacement item that puts them 
back (as nearly as possible) in the position they were in before the item was lost or 
damaged, we think thats fair. But if the policyholder wants a cash settlement, we also think 
its fair that this is for the cost to the insurer of the voucher, which is often less than the 
voucher value. So I dont think theres anything unfair or unreasonable in the approach esure 
took here.
But Mr W also says esure has undervalued his damaged carpet, while esure says it hasnt. 
My role isnt to value on Mr Ws carpet. Rather its to decide if esure has acted fairly and 
reasonably in reaching its valuation. To do this, Ive looked at the evidence both Mr W and 
esure have given us.
Mr W has a report from a carpet expert who says Mr Ws carpet was a premium wool loop 
and that a replacement carpet of the same quality would cost between £35 and £45 per 
square metre. Mr W also says hes been told by a carpet expert that a carpet costing £16.99 
per square metre today wouldve cost around £9.99 per square metre when his home was 
built. And he says his home was built by a prestige developer, who wouldnt have fitted such 
a cheap carpet. 
esure initially valued Mr Ws carpet at £16.99 per square metre based on a desk-top 
valuation of his claim. When Mr W disputed the valuation, esure sent an assessor to his 
home, who confirmed this valuation, and Ive seen a copy of the assessors report. Ive also 
seen an email in which the assessor says Mr Ws carpet is a 100% wool loop pile carpet. But 
he also says the carpets Mr W has suggested as like-for-like replacements, while also wool 
loop, arent of the same quality. He says the loops in Mr Ws carpet are almost a grid 
construction, while those in the replacements were much more regimental, row by row. He 
says hed consider replacing Mr Ws carpet with either of these carpets would put him in a 
better position than he was in before his carpet was damaged.
As Ive said, my role isnt to decide a value for Mr Ws carpet. Its to decide if esure has 
acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its valuation. The opinions from experts I have on this 
are conflicting. And while Mr W says his home was built by a prestige builder who wouldnt 
have fitted a cheap carpet, he hasnt (understandably) been able to give us anything to back 
up his opinion. So I cant attach much weight to it. And I understand Mr Ws damaged carpet 
has now been replaced, so I cant ask for another opinion on it.
So I have to make a decision based on the information I have. And I find the opinion esures 
assessor gave on the quality of the different carpets persuasive. On this basis, I think its fair 
and reasonable for esure to rely on its assessors report to reach the settlement offer it has 
made Mr W.
And from his report, I can see how the assessor calculated both the voucher value and the 
cash offer, based on his valuation of £16.99 per square metre for Mr Ws damaged carpet. 
So I think the offer esure has made Mr W to settle his claim is fair and reasonable and in line 
with his policy terms.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
25 November 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman