DRN-4007203
The complaint
Ms M says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Loans 2 Go gave Ms M four loans, a summary follows:
loan datevalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £
1* 12/01/2021 250 18 57.14
2* 29/01/2021 810 18 185.13
3 01/04/2021 250 18 57.14
4* 29/04/2021 1000 18 228.56
*Ms M withdrew from loans 1, 2 and 4 within days of receiving the funds.
Ms M says the loans were unaffordable and left her in a cycle of debt. This impacted her 
mental health which led to time off work leaving her with more money problems. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ms complaint. He said from loan 1 there were signs Ms M was 
having problems managing her money and so Loans 2 Go should not have lent to her.
 
Unhappy with this assessment, Loans 2 Go asked for an ombudsmans review. It said       
Ms Ms credit reports were on the whole positive - some adverse information is to be 
expected given the type of lending it provides. All loans were either settled early or 
withdrawn and there was never any indication of financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M
would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Ms Ms ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the loans would cause significant adverse consequences for Ms M. In practice this
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Ms M undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt
enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had
to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Loans 2 Go has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Ms M. It asked for her monthly income and expenses. It carried out a credit check to 
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. I cant see it asked about the 
purpose of the loans. Based on these checks Loans 2 Go concluded the loans would be 
affordable for Ms M. 
I think these checks were largely proportionate given the loan values and the monthly 
repayment relative to Ms Ms declared income, although a fuller review may have been 
needed for loan 4. However, I wont comment further on this as even based on the 
information it gathered, I dont think Loans 2 Go made fair lending decisions. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
The results from the credit check showed that Ms M was in an arrangement to pay on her 
overdraft which was at its limit. She was also close to her credit limit on four credit cards, 
one of which had only been open for three months. So I think it was clear Ms M was under 
financial pressure, and there was a high risk she was borrowing to repay other debt. In 
addition, I cant see Loans 2 Go got the assurances it needed that Ms M would be able to repay this loan sustainably  so without borrowing to repay. From its checks it seems most 
likely that she would be reliant on her overdraft facility to make the repayments.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 1 to Ms M.
Loans, 2 ,3 and 4
As Ms Ms further applications were made in quick succession I would want Loans 2 Go to 
have found that her financial circumstances had stabilised before agreeing to lend. I cant 
see that was the case from the checks it did. Ms M remained overdrawn and in an 
arrangement to pay when she applied for loans 2 and 3. And whilst she was out of the 
arrangement by the time she applied for loan 4, she remained £1,500 overdrawn  which 
was her limit. So I cant see that Loans 2 Go could conclude with any certainty that Ms M 
would be able to repay any further debt without relying on her current account borrowing 
facility. So even if the loans seemed affordable on a pounds and pence basis, I cant agree 
the checks showed Ms M would be able to repay the debt sustainably. 
Loans 2 Go argues that all loans were either withdrawn or early settled and there were never 
any indications of financial difficulties. But it has not evidenced that it knows Ms M made the 
repayments she did without suffering any adverse financial consequences. I also think from 
her pattern of application and rapid withdrawal it ought to have considered she was 
struggling to manage her money.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loans 2, 3 and 4 to Ms M.
I have then considered if Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I 
dont think that it did. Ms M raised that the interest rate charged was too high. I accept the 
APR was high, but Ms M had to actively engage in the application process, so I think its 
likely that she was aware of what he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which 
makes me think that Loans 2 Go treated Ms M unfairly or breached industry practice 
regarding interest charges. But the interest and charges will be refunded anyway as it has 
been agreed the loans shouldnt have been given.
Finally, I am sorry that Ms Ms financial position has impacted her mental health. I hope she 
now has the support she needs. If not, there are organisations that can help with free debt 
advice  such as Step Change on 0800 138 1111, and with mental health and wellbeing - 
such as MIND on 0300 123 3393.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Ms M to have repaid the capital that she borrowed, 
because she either had the benefit of that money or withdrew from the agreement. But she 
has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loans and treat all the payments     
Ms M made as payments towards the capital.
Where reworking Ms Ms loan accounts results in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to the
loans.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman