DRN-3206490
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mr K. It relates to how Santander UK PLC 
dealt with a request that it tell Mr Ks estate what happened to the money in an account that 
they have a tax deduction statement for. 
The estate is represented here by Mr K (junior) and Mrs K, who were the late Mr Ks son and 
wife respectively.
What happened
Mr K held a savings account with a bank thats now part of Santander. He died in September 
1996 and probate was administered shortly after his death.
In 2021, the estate of Mr K found a tax deduction statement from 1993, which related to a 
savings account that Mr K held on trust for his son. This statement showed the account held 
a balance of £273.58 as of 5 April 1993. 
The estate of Mr K had been unaware of the account and its balance at the time of Mr Ks 
death. So, on finding the tax deduction certificate, they contacted Santander to ask where 
the money was. The estate of Mr K wanted the balance paid to it together with any accrued 
interest. But Santander stated it couldnt help because it only held financial records for six 
years, which prevented it from locating any information about the account.
The estate of Mr K werent satisfied with Santanders response. They thought Santander 
was responsible for telling them what happened to the money and complained. But 
Santander maintained that it couldnt assist the estate of Mr K any further due to the 
absence of records and it therefore didnt uphold their complaint or identify any errors in how 
it had dealt with the concerns the estate had raised. 
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response to their complaint, the estate of Mr K referred it 
to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided but didnt think Santander 
needed to do anything more here. They explained that banks arent required to retain 
records for longer than six years. And they couldnt conclude, on the available evidence, that 
Santander still held the balance showing on the 1993 statement. But the estate of Mr K 
disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint. They still wanted to know where the 
money had gone. And they asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr Ks family experienced here in pursuing this matter 
as the estate of Mr K. Im sure the family has suffered some upset and inconvenience in 
dealing with Santander and for that Im sorry. However, my role is to assess whether I think 
Santander made a mistake in how it dealt with this complaint such that it needs to now put 
things right.  
 
I can see that the estate of Mr K have provided evidence together with very detailed 
submissions about this complaint. I want to assure them Ive read and considered everything 
that both they and Santander have sent when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all 
the points the estate of Mr K have raised as Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of 
this case. I hope they wont take that as a discourtesy; my approach reflects the informal 
nature of our service. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Santander initially questioned whether our service had jurisdiction to consider 
this complaint because it relates to a statement dating back to 1993. However, prior to this 
complaint reaching me, our investigator issued their view about why they were persuaded 
that the concerns of the estate of Mr K werent time barred. I can see that Santander 
accepted our investigators view. So, Im satisfied our service has jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint.
I know that the estate of Mr K will be most concerned about whether Santander has to pay 
them the balance that is shown on the 1993 statement. So, Ill explain at the outset of this 
decision that I dont think Santander has to pay the estate of Mr K the £273.58 showing on 
that statement.
Im satisfied that the account in question did exist; Ive seen a historic statement showing its 
balance as of April 1993. But I havent seen any documentation after 1993. And this means 
that it wouldnt be safe for me to infer that the balance from 1993 must have remained in the 
account at around the time of Mr Ks death.
Santander hasnt been able to tell the estate of Mr K what happened to the money in this 
account. But Im persuaded its undertaken extensive searches in efforts to trace the account 
and its balance. I say this because its shown our service screenshots confirming its 
searched for this account on its records. It also says its reviewed its databases, liaised with 
both its Retrieval Services team and IT team responsible for the archived databases. 
Its difficult to see what else Santander could have done to search for the account the estate 
of Mr K are enquiring about. And having taken all investigative steps its been able to, 
Santander hasnt been able to determine what happened to the account or its balance. 
I understand that the estate of Mr K thinks that Santander is responsible for keeping the 
money safe. They think Santander should have records, so it can prove what has happened 
to the money. But Santander has already explained that it doesnt retain records for more 
than six years, which is the reason it cant provide any further assistance. 
I understand why the estate of Mr K might feel that Santander should be able to assist them 
further with their enquiries. But Im not persuaded that expecting Santander to have records 
from over 25 years ago is a fair or reasonable expectation. Its only required to have six 
years worth of records. So, I dont think its surprising, if this account was closed some time 
ago, that Santander doesnt still have a record now of where the money was transferred or 
who it was paid to. Santander has explained that if the account became dormant, with a balance, it wouldnt be 
closed. So, there would be a record of the account. As it hasnt been able to find any record 
of the account, Im not persuaded the balance remained in the account following Mr Ks 
death. If it did, it would most likely have been treated as a dormant account by Santander 
and thered be a record of it.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think that Santander still has the funds from the 
account and I havent seen anything at all to suggest that Santander took this money. I 
therefore dont think Santander has to pay the balance shown in the 1993 statement that the 
estate of Mr K have shared with our service. 
Santander has also suggested that the money from the account could have been transferred 
to an account in Mr K juniors name following Mr K attaining the age of 18. Its possible that 
this is what happened. But Santander doesnt know that this happened. And, as Ive 
explained, it cant access records beyond six years if an account was closed. It therefore 
isnt possible to explore this suggestion any further. And I dont think it was helpful for 
Santander to suggest to the estate of Mr K that money may have been transferred to another 
account held by another family member, when it doesnt know if that happened or not. 
Santander also didnt fully explain to the estate of Mr K what steps it had taken to check 
what had happened to the account balance. As Ive already explained, Im satisfied that 
Santander has done all the checks it could. But I think this could have been explained more 
fully to the estate of Mr K when they queried what had happened to the account and its 
balance.
While I think Santander could have offered more transparency in what it had done to 
investigate what had happened to the account and its balance, I dont think Santander has to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint. Im therefore not going to ask it to do 
anymore here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman