DRN-1374881
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that  Capital One (Europe) plc has not provided her with the original 
copy of her signed credit agreement. 
What happened
In 2002, Mrs S applied for a Capital One credit card and an account was opened. Mrs S 
used this account for a number of years. Mrs S contacted Capital One in 2019, in 
part requesting a copy of her original credit agreement. Capital One sent her a reconstituted 
copy of her agreement and the scanned signature page of her application form. 
Mrs S was not happy that Capital One was unable to provide the original copy of her credit 
agreement and felt this meant her credit agreement was not enforceable. She thought 
Capital One should repay her all of the money she had paid on the account. Capital One 
explained that the original document had been destroyed, but Mrs S remained unhappy and 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator explained that it would be for a court to determine whether a particular debt 
was enforceable or not. But she thought that Capital One had acted fairly and reasonably by 
providing a reconstituted copy of the agreement. So she did not recommend Mrs S's 
complaint should be upheld. Mrs S was not satisfied with this outcome, so her complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that a decision on whether Mrs S's debt is enforceable or not is 
one that a court would need to make. The role of this service is to determine whether or not 
a financial business, in this case Capital One, has acted fairly and reasonably. 
The issue in this case is whether Capital One has been able to provide appropriate 
documents relating to the credit card. Mrs S is unhappy that she has not been provided with 
the original document she signed. It should be noted that Mrs S has not said that she was 
unaware of having the card or that she didn't use it. 
Mrs S has also referred to particular parts of the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. The investigator has previously 
provided the guidance here to Mrs S in full, so I do not consider it necessary to quote them 
again here. But they are CONC 13.1.3G and 13.1.4G.
These parts of CONC are guidance that expand on certain requirements a lender has under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act); largely relating to providing information to 
borrowers about their lending. Section 78 of the Act requires, in part, a lender to provide a 
borrower with a copy of the executed agreement where this is requested. This section goes 
on to say that where a lender does not do this, the agreement might not be enforceable. As I've said, it would be for a court to make a decision on the enforceability of the 
agreement. But, taking into account the guidance in CONC, particularly in CONC 13.1.4, I 
consider Capital One has responded appropriately to Mrs S's request for information. 
Capital One has provided a signed copy of Mrs S's application form for the account. This 
form included Mrs S's name and address, explained that Mrs S was applying for a credit 
agreement, and let her know that she had the opportunity to cancel the agreement. It also 
explained that Mrs S was, by signing the form, agreeing to be bound by the terms and 
conditions that were apparently attached. 
Capital One has said that the copy of the credit agreement it provided to Mrs S was 
reconstituted. But CONC 13.1.4(2)G explains that this was not inappropriate, as long as 
Capital One made Mrs S aware of this. As Capital One did tell Mrs S that the copy of the 
agreement was a reconstituted copy, I consider Capital One responded to Mrs S's request 
for information appropriately. 
I consider Capital One acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mrs S's request and I 
do not consider it would be appropriate to uphold Mrs S's complaint about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman