DRN-4211746
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice David Stock & Co Limited (DSC) gave to him to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, paying 
compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels 
are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Mr D was concerned about the future of his pension and contacted DSC for advice. DSC 
advised him to ask the BSPS administrators to give him a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) for his pension fund. The BSPS provided that on 21 July 2017, at that time the 
value was around £287,000. 
On 31 July 2017 DSC sent Mr D an Initial Report. This set out DSCs understanding of the 
BSPS situation. It explained the BSPS would provide a guaranteed pension that would 
increase each year depending upon certain indices. DSC said it could use those figures to 
calculate a critical yield (the growth rate required to match the DB scheme benefits). It said it 
didnt yet know what the revaluation rates would be for the BSPS2 but assumed these would 
be superior to the PPF. It said it would try and find out. Its Initial Report didnt contain any 
information specifically personal to Mr D or provide any critical yield figures. 
DSC met with Mr D on 3 August 2017. It conducted a fact-find and an assessment of his 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be above average. Amongst other things it noted Mr D 
was 39 years old, single and in good health. He earned a basic salary of around £30,000 
before overtime. His income exceeded his outgoings (although the specific figures are not 
recorded). He owned his own home worth £185,000 subject to a mortgage of £47,000. He 
had £5,000 in cash savings and £75,000 invested in funds within an ISA. 
Mr D completed the forms to transfer his benefits to a named personal pension that day 
(3 August 2017). He also signed a client agreement to say he had received an Initial, an 
Interim and a Final Report relating to the BSPS transfer. The agreement also said Mr D 
understood the significance of the critical yield calculation figure. And that he accepted the 
risks of a transfer.
On 10 August 2017, DSC provided its Final Report. It said Mr D had concluded he wanted 
to transfer his DB funds and he felt the greater risk was not requesting the greatly increased 
transfer value. DSC said transferring would provide the added flexibility associated with 
personal plans. DSC set out why it had recommended the named personal pension 
provider. It referred to some specific funds Mr D may wish to invest in within the personal 
pension. It said it was doing so purely as a suggestion and said it would meet with him 
again after the transfer had concluded to decide the portfolio.
In September 2017 the BSPS sent Mr D a revalued CETV which had increased to around 
£296,000.
Later the same month (September 2017) DSC sent Mr D a Pension Investment 
Programme, with some information about the sorts of funds available to invest in and the 
effects of risk tolerance on investment strategies. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 1 December 2017 the named personal pension provider confirmed it had received the 
money from the DB transfer. Shortly after DSC arranged for the sum to be invested in the 
various funds  within the personal pension  of Mr Ds choosing.
After receiving a letter from the regulator, Mr D wrote to DSC in 2022 to say he thought the 
transfer advice might not have been suitable for him. DSC replied to say it believed Mr D 
was happy with the suitability of the transfer advice and said his complaint was a blatant 
attempt at gaining compensation. So it refused to deal with the substance of his complaint.
Mr D asked us to consider the matter. One of our Investigators looked into it. Amongst other 
things he didnt think DSC had given Mr D enough information with which to make an 
informed decision to transfer. So he recommended the complaint be upheld. He said DSC 
should calculate if Mr D had suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice.
DSC told us it was willing to make the required calculation. We asked it for clarification if it 
accepted our Investigators complaint assessment or not. It didnt reply. As the Investigator 
was unable to resolve the matter informally its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DSC's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DSC should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate it was in 
Mr Ds best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our Investigator gave.
Reasons for my decision 
The regulator required DSC to compare the benefits likely to be paid under Mr Ds DB 
scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions 
(COBS 19.1.2R). In practice, at that time, advising firms did this by obtaining a transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) report. Such reports set out a consumers entitlement from a DB scheme 
and show the growth rates required (the critical yields) to match those benefits by 
transferring to a personal pension. The purpose of a TVAS is to assist advising firms like 
DSC to help consumers like Mr D to understand if the likelihood of a transfer to a personal 
pension is financially viable.
In this case theres no persuasive evidence that DSC obtained a TVAS at any point. It sent 
Mr D an Initial Report on 31 July 2017. But that doesn't set out Mr Ds entitlement under the 
DB scheme. In fact it doesn't provide any details personal to Mr D. It does explain how the 
BSPS would revalue a pension by applying appropriate indices. It also said it could use 
those figures to calculate a critical yield, but it doesn't actually provide a critical yield figure. 
DSC then met with Mr D on 3 August 2017. It completed a fact-find with him and he signed 
the forms for the transfer to go ahead that day. So its evident that DSC recommended the 
transfer after completing the fact-find. But I've seen no compelling evidence that DSC gave 
him any additional paperwork or written explanation for recommending the transfer at that 
time. 
I've noted Mr D signed a client agreement on 3 August 2017, which said hed received 
Initial, Interim and Final reports. But I dont think thats accurate. Thats because DSC didnt 
produce its final report until a week later, on 10 August 2017. So Mr D couldn't already have 
received the Final Report on 3 August 2017. Theres also nothing on file titled Interim 
Report. There is an undated document called The investment Principles, which explains 
the sorts of investments and portfolio choices DSC would consider and/or recommend, 
including using the named personal pension provider. But it doesn't refer to Mr Ds personal 
circumstances, objectives or critical yields. And it discusses choosing Mr Ds investment strategy once the named pension provider had received the DB scheme funds. So it would 
appear that document was produced after Mr D had already completed the forms to transfer 
to the named pension provider. It follows that I don't think DSC produced an Interim Report 
that set out the required comparison between the DB scheme benefits and those from a 
personal pension. 
Similarly, theres a document on file which is clearly some form of checking tool to help DSC 
identify when (or if) it had taken some key actions. There is also an internal audit report 
which would appear to do a similar job. On both of those documents, the box which should 
contain the date the TVAS was produced has been left blank. And I note that neither the 
Initial Report nor the Final Report refer to Mr Ds entitlements under the DB scheme or the 
critical yields required to match those. So I dont think DSC ever produced a TVAS or met its 
regulatory requirement to give Mr D the appropriate comparison between the DB scheme 
benefits and those from a personal pension.
Further, at the time of DSCs advice there was a likely possibility that the BSPS benefits 
would move into the PPF. So I would have expected the TVAS to show the relevant critical 
yields to match the benefits from the PPF. I would also have expected the TVAS to show 
Mr Ds entitlement from the DB scheme and the PPF if he chose to take a tax free cash lump 
sum and a reduced pension. But DSC didnt give him any of those figures. 
Without a TVAS its extremely difficult to gauge whether a transfer was financially viable for 
Mr D at the time of the advice. DB schemes are generally recognised as having benefits 
which are difficult to meet (at a similar cost) from products available on the open market. So 
transferring to a personal pension might not match the DB scheme benefits. But, even if it 
did that doesn't mean a transfer was in his best interests. Thats because, in order for the 
potential to match or improve on the DB scheme benefits, Mr D would need to put those 
funds at risk. And, if there was an extended period of poor performance or market crashes 
causing his investments to suffer losses that could result in him being worse off in 
retirement. 
Its also notable that  at the point DSC advised Mr D to transfer  it didnt recommend the 
investment assets it believed would be suitable for Mr D. However, COBS 19.1.3(4)G said 
DSC needed to provide its benefit comparison on the likely growth rates Mr D could expect 
from the assets the money would be invested in. But without making a recommendation for 
which assets to invest in and showing the likely returns he could expect from doing so DSC 
wasnt in a position to make that comparison. It follows that, at the point Mr D accepted 
DSCs recommendation to transfer, the only relevant written information it appears he had 
sight of was the DSCs Initial Report which simply set out generic information about the 
BSPS.
In fact it's notable that there is virtually no analysis whatsoever in the reports DSC gave to 
Mr D which support why a recommendation to transfer was in his best interests. Instead they 
essentially sum up the BSPS position and then say that Mr D believes it is a good idea to 
transfer and he could benefit from flexibility by doing so. DSC has explained why it 
recommended the personal pension provider. But there's no analysis setting out Mr Ds 
financial objectives or the manner in which a transfer would help him achieve those. Similarly 
there's no in depth explanation of why transferring would be better for him than remaining in 
the DB scheme. The only clear objective that DSCs documents address was Mr Ds desire 
to transfer. But the reasons for recommending that arent clear.
It follows that I dont think DSC gave Mr D all the information he needed in order to make an 
informed decision to transfer. Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once 
transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. But 
in this instance DSC made a recommendation to transfer, and allowed Mr D to complete the forms to do so, without providing a detailed analysis of what he would be giving up by doing 
so. And I don't think that was a fair and reasonable manner in which to approach a subject 
as serious as a transfer from a DB scheme.
I understand Mr D was concerned about the prospect of his pension moving into the PPF. 
But, its not clear how DSC addressed that concern. There was some widespread trepidation 
about what moving pensions to the PPF meant for scheme members. Its also well known 
that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr D as there were concerns that the 
BSPS2 might not ever be set up or might itself move to the PPF. However, this only serves 
to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options available and 
ultimately the requirement for suitable advice.
There will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or 
concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme. Its likely that Mr Ds 
concerns of that nature were a motivating factor in seeking advice and considering 
transferring his pension. So he might well have been leaning towards transferring when he 
sought advice. But DSC was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing 
an appropriately balanced view of all the available options.
A move to the PPF would mean, on a general basis, a reduction of around 10% in retirement 
income and less generous yearly indexed pension increases. I understand the prospect of 
pension benefits moving to the PPF was for some people rather daunting. But its probably 
the case that the potential reduction in benefits wasn't as significant as many BSPS scheme 
members believed it to be. And in order to recommend that Mr D should transfer out of his 
DB scheme, even if that were to move to the PPF, DSC needed to be able to clearly 
demonstrate doing so was in his best interests. But DSC didnt provide any comparison of 
the relevant benefits from the PPF against what Mr D might achieve from a personal 
pension. So I dont think it clearly demonstrated how a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. 
.
I've noted DSCs Final Report says Mr D would have added flexibility by transferring. But 
while the DB scheme would provide a significant portion of Mr Ds pension in retirement, it 
wouldn't be his only source of income. He had recently started contributing to his employers 
newly set up defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. DSC hasn't recorded how much 
Mr D or his employer were contributing towards that pension. But, in other BSPS cases Ive 
seen the contributions range from 10% to 16% of salary a year. And Mr D could have 
anticipated continuing to contribute to that scheme (or a similar one if he changed employer) 
for the rest of his working life. And, as he had over 25 years until he reached the DB 
schemes normal retirement age of 65, by then he could expect his DC pension pot to be 
worth a significant sum. So he could have accessed those funds flexibly.
The nature of a DC pension means this already provided Mr D with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. He could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr D 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his DC pension, would have likely given him 
flexible access to funds if he decided he needed that flexibility.
I can understand why having extra flexibility was likely appealing to Mr D but it wasnt 
necessary at the time of the advice. And in any event, I dont think transferring was a 
decision he needed to make at the time. If Mr D hadn't transferred when he did he would 
have had the option of opting into the BSPS2. That would have allowed him to transfer out of 
the scheme closer to his retirement age if his circumstances required it. So he had no need 
to make such a decision, and put his DB funds at risk by doing so, when he still had 25 years 
to the schemes normal retirement age.It follows that DSC hasn't provided evidence which clearly demonstrated a transfer was 
suitable for Mr D. 
 
As I've said above its likely Mr D was leaning towards a decision to transfer when he 
approached DSC for advice. But DSC wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what he needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
So, I think DSC should have advised Mr D to remain in his DB scheme. Had he done so, 
then in October 2017 he would have needed to make a "time to choose" decision. In other 
words he would have needed to choose between:
staying in the BSPS and his pension moving with it to the PPF 
opting to join the BSPS2
transferring to an alternative arrangement. 
I've already explained above that I think DSC should have advised Mr D to keep his benefits 
within the DB environment. So that meant a choice between the PPF and the BSPS2. The 
new scheme would essentially match the BSPS benefits but with lower revaluation rates but 
those were generally superior to the PPF. Additionally, as I've already said, if Mr D had 
opted to join the BSPS2 then he could have chosen to transfer out at some point in the 
future nearer to his retirement age, if that's what he chose to do. So I think if he had 
remained within the DB scheme its likely he would have opted to join the BSPS2 as that 
better suited his needs. 
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ds best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. DSC told us that Mr D was 
determined to transfer. But, apart from its comments to us, theres no evidence of that on 
file. Mr D still had over 25 years until his schemes normal retirement age. So he had no 
urgent reason to transfer when he did. And he was paying DSC for the benefit of its 
expertise. So if it had given him clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice. It 
follows that Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice DSC gave to Mr D was 
unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for DSC to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would most likely 
have opted to join the BSPS2 if DSC had given suitable advice.
I'm aware that DSC has already said that it would make a redress calculation. But, I haven't 
seen evidence that it has already done that. So ,for the avoidance of doubt, DSC must 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant 
pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
DSC should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation together with supporting evidence of what DSC based the inputs into the 
calculator on.For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr D 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, DSC should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts DSCs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, DSC may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require David Stock & Co 
Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
David Stock & Co Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on David Stock & Co 
Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman