DRN-4243197
The complaint
Mrs C complains about a car she hired from ALD Automotive Limited, trading as Kia 
Contract Hire (Kia).
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs C hired a brand new car from Kia for four years, under a regulated hire 
agreement. The cars cash price was £25,940. There was also a warranty agreement under 
which the car was to be serviced every 12 months or, if earlier, every 20,000 miles. The total 
contract mileage was 80,000, and a fee would be charged for any excess mileage.
The first service was in March 2021, and the second was in April 2022. The second service 
was carried out 21,610 miles after the first.
In December 2022 the car broke down and had to be recovered from the roadside by the 
AA. It needs a new engine and a new turbo.
Kia told Mrs C that the car was not eligible to be repaired under warranty because the 
second service had been carried out 1,600 miles late. Kia said that at the second service it 
had been found that the oil was of poor quality, and was described as clumpy and sludgy. 
It argued that this would have caused damage to the engine and  the turbo, and this was 
why they had failed. Mrs C argued that the car had been driven 17,000 miles since the 
second service, presumably with the right oil, and so the lateness of the second service was 
irrelevant. She brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators upheld this complaint. She said that the breach of the warranty was 
all very well, but that Kia had not considered its obligations under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. There was a statutory implied term of contract that goods hired to a consumer would 
be of satisfactory quality, and this included durability. She thought that for an engine and 
turbo to fail when a car was less than three years old, and had only been driven 62,600 
miles, indicated that they had not been durable. She was not persuaded that driving for 
1,600 miles after a service was due was the real reason why they had failed.
The investigator recommended that Kia pay for the engine and turbo to be repaired, and that 
Kia refund Mrs Cs monthly payments during the period that she had been without the car 
and without a courtesy car, with interest on the refunds, plus another £350 to compensate 
Mrs C for her trouble.
Kia did not accept that opinion. It reiterated its previous stance, and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold it, for the same reasons as my colleague. I will briefly explain why.
I agree that Mrs C did not comply with the terms of the warranty, and so she was not eligible 
to have the car repaired under warranty.
However, I am upholding this complaint on a different ground. As Ive said, the Consumer 
Rights Act requires that goods sold or hired by a trader to a consumer must be of 
satisfactory quality, and the Act goes on to say that satisfactory quality includes durability. 
The car was brand new when it was sold, so it is reasonable to expect that the engine and 
turbo would last for considerably longer than three years. So when they fail after less than 
three years, the inference may be drawn that they were not durable, and were therefore not 
of satisfactory quality when they were sold.
That inference can of course be rebutted by evidence of the engine and turbo having failed 
due to some other reason. In this case, Kia has argued that they must have been damaged 
by the poor quality of the oil which was discovered at the second service. If I accepted that, 
then I would be unable to fairly conclude that there had been anything wrong with the car 
when it was delivered to Mrs C.
However, I find Kias argument unpersuasive. I agree with Mrs C that it is unlikely that driving 
the car for an extra 1,600 miles after it was supposed to have been serviced really damaged 
the engine and the turbo so extensively that it materially contributed to their failure. I may 
well have taken a different view about that if they had failed just before the second service, 
or only a short time afterwards. But the car was driven for another 17,000 miles after being 
serviced, before it broke down eight months later. During that period, the oil would have 
been of acceptable quality, having been changed during the second service. So I doubt that 
the quality of the oil during the 1,610 miles driven immediately prior to the late service was 
the real cause of the breakdown. On the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality when it was hired. Kia is liable for that.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators recommended redress, which is in line with what our service 
would typically award.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order ALD Automotive Limited (trading as Kia 
Contract Hire) to:
Pay Mrs C £5,119.91 plus VAT to cover the cost of repairing the car;
Refund Mrs Cs monthly payments made during the period that she was without the 
car and without a courtesy car, and pay her interest on those refunds at the rate of 
eight per cent a year from the respective dates of payment to the date of settlement;
Pay Mrs C £350 for her inconvenience.
If Kia considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it must tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. Mrs C should refer back to Kia if she is unsure of the approach it has taken, and 
both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Richard Wood
Ombudsman