DRN-2004577
The complaint
Mr T complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds level of service in the 
administration of his motor insurance policy. He doesnt want points on his licence or a fine 
for driving whilst uninsured. 
What happened
Mr Ts policy came up for renewal and Hastings wrote to him to say that it wouldnt be able 
to process the renewal. But this was sent to Mr Ts old address and he didnt receive it. Mr T 
had changed his address with Hastings, but this hadnt attached to its system correctly. So 
Mr T thought his policy had renewed. Mr T was pulled over by the police three months later 
for driving whilst uninsured. He took out temporary cover and faced a £300 fine and 6 points 
on his licence. 
Hastings accepted that this was due to its error. So it paid Mr T £175 compensation, 
refunded his temporary cover fee and provided him with a letter of indemnity so that the fine 
and points could be revoked. But Mr T remained unhappy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
compensation didnt sufficiently restore Mr Ts position. He thought it should pay him a 
further £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Hastings replied that it had sent Mr T a letter of mitigating circumstances three days after he 
was pulled over by the police. It thought Mr T should have sent this letter on to stop the 
points and fine. It said it had reimbursed Mr T for his financial losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer.
Mr Ts car wasnt impounded by the police who helped him to arrange temporary cover. Mr T 
hasnt received a conviction for driving whilst uninsured. He doesnt need to report the non-
renewal of his policy to future insurers, so this wont impact on his premiums.
Hastings refunded Mr Ts premium for temporary cover. It provided him with a letter of 
mitigation and arranged a letter of indemnity from the underwriters after Mr T complained. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as Mr T can present that letter to the court to avoid the points 
and fine. 
But I think Hastings offer of £175 compensation wasnt enough in the circumstances. This is 
because:
Mr T had the embarrassment and upset of being stopped by the police for driving whilst 
uninsured.
Mr T had the stress and worry of a possible fine and 6 points on his licence for 
something that wasnt his fault and, if imposed, would affect his future employment.
Mr T has the inconvenience of having to resolve the fine and points issue with the court, 
which he wouldnt have had but for Hastings error. 
Mr T was unable to drive his car until the situation was resolved. 
So, whilst Hastings has compensated Mr T for his losses, I dont think it has sufficiently 
compensated him for the impact of its error.
Putting things right
The investigator recommended that Hastings should pay Mr T a further £300 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its error. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr T additional compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman