DRN-2396224
The complaint
Mr I says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr I took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr I paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
I sent Mr I and Halifax a provisional decision on 16 November 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I find it unsurprising that neither side still have the original documents from the sale. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Is data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr I into having PPI. And 
I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr I 
here. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, offered him a 
choice about buying PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can completely 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr I, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it  so to be fair to Mr I, Ive assumed they did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr I was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits and 
offered him more comprehensive cover, covering him for a significant period in case he 
needed to claim. I understand his family may have been happy to help, but there was always 
the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr Is 
responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Halifax had 
recommended he rely on other individuals to pay it. Further, while I understand Mr I may 
have felt secure in his position, accidents, illnesses and redundancies can and do happen, 
even to healthy people in roles that feel secure. And ultimately, if he fell behind on his 
mortgage he couldve lost his home. So the PPI could have really been useful for him in 
protecting his home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr I about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr I wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr I could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
30 November 2020. But neither Mr I nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman