DRN-4177970
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fluro Platform Limited trading as Lending Works irresponsibly gave him 
a fixed sum loan agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr M applied for a peer to peer fixed sum loan agreement through 
Lending Works. He borrowed £4,500, repayable over 60 months. The total repayable, 
including the arrangement fee and interest was £6,055.67. The monthly repayments were 
around £101. 
Mr M complained to Lending Works to say that the loan had been irresponsibly provided to 
him. He said the loan was unaffordable and if appropriate checks had been done at the 
outset the loan wouldnt have been approved. Lending Works didnt think it had acted 
unfairly. It said it had completed adequate checks which didnt reveal any affordability 
concerns. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Lending Works had 
gathered a proportionate amount of information and evidence before approving the loan and 
there was nothing in the information it gathered that ought to have caused it affordability 
concerns.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to granting credit, Lending Works needed to ensure the borrowing would be affordable 
to Mr M. There isnt a set list of checks it had to complete, but any checks it did needed to be 
proportionate in the circumstances of that lending decision. What is proportionate will 
therefore vary for every application. In deciding what is proportionate, Lending Works 
needed to take into account things such as (but not limited to): the total repayable, the term 
of the loan, the size of the regular repayments, the cost of the loan and Mr Ms 
circumstances. 
As part of the application Mr M declared he had a monthly income of £3,500. Lending Works 
used credit reference agency data to confirm if this was likely to be accurate and these 
checks said that it was. Mr M also declared there was at least one other person in his 
household that earned an income and that he had two dependents. Lending Works also 
completed a credit check and used statistical data to estimate Mr Ms likely essential 
household bills and expenditure. It said based on the results of these checks it calculated 
that Mr M would have a monthly disposable income of around £1,900 and therefore it 
concluded the loan repayments of around £101 were affordable. 
Ive reviewed the credit check Lending Works completed and this showed that Mr M held a 
mortgage with monthly repayments of £929, a recent loan with monthly repayments of £180 
and had credit card debt of just over £3,000. There was no adverse information recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file and no indication he had struggled to pay his existing credit commitments. 
Based on what Lending Works could see, Mr M appeared to be able to comfortably afford 
the repayments of around £101 per month without difficulty. His credit commitments werent 
significant when taking into account his income, especially as it appeared that there would 
be someone else in the household likely contributing towards the mortgage, bills and 
household essentials. Hed also declared that the purpose of the loan was for debt 
consolidation, so it seemed likely his overall unsecured debt wouldnt increase as a result of 
taking out this loan. 
Taking everything into account, I think Lending Works completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks in this specific case and Im satisfied it made a fair lending 
decision based on what it had seen.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman