DRN-3170592
The complaint
Company M (M) complains that certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds (the 
underwriters) have handled his legal expenses insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. However, in summary, Ms property was damaged by fire in 
October 2014 due to a faulty fuse board, which resulted in its business being closed for six 
months. As a result, it made a claim on its legal expenses insurance to recover the financial 
losses not covered by its business interruption insurance.
Our service previously considered a complaint against the underwriters for the same claim, 
where the investigator said that she didnt think it had been declined fairly on the basis of 
late notification, so she directed them to continue with their assessment of the claim in 
March 2020.
M has since raised another complaint as it is unhappy with the lack of contact received from 
the underwriters after they agreed to reconsider the claim, as it says that no claims 
correspondence was received until 20 October 2020. M was also unaware that the 
underwriters had closed the claim again on the basis that it wasnt covered.
The underwriters said the claim had been closed following a phone call it had with M on 
29 May 2020, where it transpired that M did not want to pursue the electrician who installed 
the fuse board, but the landlords insurer that appointed him/funded the work. The 
underwriters said that the policy did not cover claims against buildings insurers and also 
referred to a clause which excludes a dispute with any party other than the party that 
caused the damage, nuisance or trespass, which was why they said the claim had been 
closed. However, they acknowledged that this hadnt been communicated to M, so they 
offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator upheld Ms complaint. She considered that the question of which party the 
claim should be directed against was a complex matter, such that the underwriters ought to 
have offered the services of their legal advice helpline rather than summarily closing the 
claim based on Ms hesitance of choosing a responsible party. She also wasnt persuaded 
that the exclusion referenced by the underwriters applied as they couldnt show it was part of 
the policy document in force at the time of Ms claim.
The investigator also noted that the limitation date on Ms claim had since passed, as the 
damage originally occurred in 2014. She didnt think the underwriters could be held entirely 
responsible for this, but she did think there had been a loss of opportunity. As a result, she 
recommended the underwriters seek a legal opinion on which party would have been 
responsible for the damage, so as to determine whether the claim ought to have been 
covered or not. If the claim would have had reasonable prospects of success and would 
have been covered, the investigator said the underwriters should pay £500 in recognition of 
the lost opportunity for pursuing the claim. The underwriters disagreed, so the matter was 
escalated to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 November 2021. I said I was minded to reach a 
different outcome to the investigator, as I didnt intend on upholding the complaint. I set out 
the following reasons:
Following previous involvement from our service, the underwriters sought clarification 
from M to determine which third party it wished to pursue. I understand they had a 
phone call with it on 29 May 2020, where they were advised that it wanted to pursue 
the landlords insurance company, which the underwriters didnt think would be 
covered. 
I understand that the issue of liability here is complex. The investigator thought that 
the underwriters ought to have provided more assistance and guidance to M in 
making the claim by offering access to the legal advice helpline available under the 
policy. This was in order to help determine which party was responsible. However, 
Im not persuaded it wouldve been fair and reasonable to have expected the 
underwriters to offer this service.
By the time M was making its claim, the legal expenses policy it had in place in 2014 
had lapsed several years prior. So it no longer enjoyed the benefit of the legal advice 
helpline under the policy, and I wouldnt expect the insurer to refer them to it when 
the cover was no longer on risk. I appreciate that the regulator expects an insurer to 
assist a policyholder with making a claim. But I dont consider this to extend to the 
provision of legal advice when a policy has lapsed, as this is a service thats only 
available to the policyholder during the period of insurance  its not a retrospective 
benefit for those that later realise they have a legal dispute. In any event, it seems 
doubtful that the legal advice helpline wouldve even been able to assist M with its 
question of liability, as I note that it had approached three different solicitors who all 
said the matter was too complex for them to take on. So, I dont think the 
underwriters can be criticised for failing to offer the services of their legal advice 
helpline here.
Ive also considered the underwriters refusal to cover the claim. There have been 
various exclusions referenced by the underwriters regarding why they dont think the 
claim is covered. But it isnt clear if any of these apply, as they cannot conclusively 
show which policy document wouldve been applicable to Ms claim. 
However, exclusion clauses aside, I still dont think it was unreasonable for the 
underwriters to refuse to cover the claim in these circumstances, as M has not been 
able to determine the identity of the proposed defendant to its legal action. The claim 
form originally submitted in 2019, for example, was left blank where it asked, Name 
of the party with whom you are in dispute. 
I understand there are several parties here that could potentially be held responsible 
for the fire, including the electrician, the manufacturer of the heating appliance and 
the landlords insurer that appointed the electrician and funded the fitting of the fuse 
box. I appreciate that M said it wanted to explore the potential of pursuing a claim 
against the insurer for this. But whether or not such a claim would have been 
excluded, Im not persuaded that M sufficiently proved it had a claim to pursue here 
in the first place, or what its cause of action would have been against the landlords 
insurer. M also said it does not hold the electrician responsible in any way for the 
damage caused and even said it was happy with the work carried out with regards to 
the fitting of the fuse box. So the basis on which it was to bring a claim against the 
landlords insurer here is unclear. But I note that during the call with the underwriters 
in May 2020, M also said it was unsure whether the claim should ultimately be 
directed against the fuse board manufacturer or even the landlord. So, overall, Im not satisfied that M gave enough information to the underwriters for the claim to be 
properly assessed in the first place.  
Its important to note that the onus is on the policyholder to prove the claim. If he 
cannot present enough evidence to show he has a prima facie claim (which includes 
knowing which party he wants to claim against, and at least what the cause of action 
might be), then an insurer will not be in a position to properly assess or agree to 
cover it. An insurer also cannot reasonably be expected to incur costs for preliminary 
investigations to establish whether a claim exists in the first place. Those costs would 
need to be borne by the policyholder, but M has not obtained any legal opinion to 
show it has a valid claim in this instance, or who it should be directed to.  
So in these circumstances, I dont consider it necessary to determine whether the 
claim would have been excluded or not, as I dont think the underwriters can be said 
to have acted unreasonably by refusing to cover it based on the limited information 
theyd been given. 
In any event, I note that the limitation date has now passed on Ms claim as the fire 
took place in October 2014, so it seems there would be little use in directing the 
insurer to now obtain a legal opinion on something that now cannot be pursued. I 
also dont think the underwriters can fairly be held responsible for the limitation 
expiring on the legal claim, as M could have either pursued its claim sooner, or have 
taken appropriate action to protect it. 
I acknowledge, however, that the underwriters handling of this matter could have 
been better. I can see, for example, that they failed to make it clear to M that they 
were closing the claim (as well as giving a clear reason why), and Im satisfied they 
could have done this a lot sooner. However, the underwriters have offered £100 
compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused to M as a result of their 
handling of the claim. 
Ive considered whether this represents fair compensation in the circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied that it does. Its important to note that M (in its 
capacity as a limited company) is the policyholder and the eligible complainant here, 
not its directors. So I can only make an award of compensation for any 
inconvenience caused to Ms business; I cannot take into account any distress, 
inconvenience or loss of opportunity caused to the directors personally. 
Other than causing moderate inconvenience, I havent been made aware of any 
other reasons as to why the underwriters handling of the claim wouldve had a 
greater impact on M. So, Im satisfied that £100 represents fair compensation, and I 
do not intend on intend on making any further award.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties, but neither party responded by 
the deadline set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has put forward any further comments or evidence for consideration, 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.It therefore follows that I do not think the underwriters have acted unfairly in declining Ms 
claim, and I consider their offer of £100 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
Society of Lloyds have made an offer to pay a total of £100.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
the underwriters should pay M (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving 
its acceptance of this decision.
M should note that it accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and it 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, M rejects the decision, although its legal rights will remain intact, 
itll purely be a matter between M and the underwriters as to whether the £100 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman