DRN-3102083
The complaint
Ms M complains that a car that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc provided under a conditional 
sale agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2019 Ms M entered into a 43-month conditional sale agreement with Santander. 
Under the agreement she was supplied with a car which was, at the time, around three-and 
a-half years old with a recorded mileage of just over 30,000. The cash price was recorded as 
£11,440.
In June 2019 Ms M reported a rattling noise and returned the car to the dealership for 
investigation. Amongst other things, the dealership replaced the timing chain, 16 valves and 
the head gasket.
In July 2019 the dealership replaced the cars radio and battery. The radio was replaced 
again in October and November 2019.
In May 2020 Ms M told the dealership that the cars engine was rattling. By July 2020 the 
engine had been stripped and replaced. The work was delayed due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. Over the following two months, the engine management light illuminated, and 
further repairs were carried out to resolve that issue.
On 10 September 2020 Ms M left the car at the dealership and contacted Santander to say 
that she wanted to return it. Further repairs were carried out.
The dealership arranged for an engineers report to be carried out. His initial inspection, 
carried out on 14 September 2020, identified a fault with an oxygen sensor. It had been 
replaced a few weeks earlier. It was then replaced again under warranty. After a follow-up 
inspection on 24 September 2020, the engineer concluded that the car was operating as he 
would expect of a car of the age and mileage of Ms Ms car.
Ms M collected the car at the end of September 2020. She did so under protest, as she says 
she was entitled to reject it and had in fact done so before the final set of repairs. She says 
the car has not been used since then. She complained to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She thought that the car had not 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms M and that she had therefore been 
entitled to reject it. The investigator thought too that Ms M had validly rejected the car in 
September 2020; she recommended that Santander treat the conditional sale agreement as 
at an end, refund her deposit and any payments made from September 2020, with interest, 
and pay Ms M a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which she had been put.
Santander did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. It said that Ms M had not complained about the cars condition 
and that it had not investigated that issue. It understood the complaint to be about its 
response to Ms Ms request to end the agreement.
I reviewed what had happened and, because I took a different view from that of the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. I set out the text of my reasons for reaching that 
decision below:
I would note first of all that I do not accept Santanders view that Ms M has not complained 
about the quality of the car. She made it very clear that the reason she wanted to return the 
car was because it had needed repairs on several occasions. In my view, Santander should 
have addressed that part of the complaint. There is however evidence about that issue from 
Ms M and from the dealership.
As the investigator identified, the conditional sale agreement was to be read as including a 
term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable 
person would expect in the circumstances  including the cars age, price and mileage.
The car suffered from a number of issues, some fairly minor and some much more serious, 
starting about five months after Ms M took delivery of it. I dont need to set them all out here, 
but they are listed in detail in the investigators assessment and in the engineers report of 25 
September 2020. I believe the engineers report is an accurate account of the problems that 
Ms M has encountered and of the work carried out the rectify them.
I can understand why Ms M feels that the car was unsatisfactory. It has needed a number of 
repairs, including a replacement timing chain and engine. Both are significant items which I 
would not usually expect to need replacement after 35,000 and 41,000 miles respectively. 
Further, there have been a number of occasions on which repairs have been carried out but 
have needed follow-up work.
It does not necessarily follow however that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of delivery. Nor does it follow that, even if it was, Ms M should be entitled to reject it and 
receive the refunds which the investigator recommended.
In considering whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I have taken particular account of 
the vehicle report of 25 September 2020. That report reached the conclusion that the car 
probably was of satisfactory quality when Ms M took delivery of it. It noted for example that 
Ms M had been in possession of it for some five months before timing chain issue arose and 
that she had driven around 5,000 miles in that time. It also explained why, in the engineers 
opinion, the repairs to the car could not be regarded as failed. Whilst follow-up work had 
been needed in some cases  for example, after the engine replacement  that was normal 
for a repair of that kind.
Where faults arise within six months of delivery, in court proceedings it is generally for the 
supplier of goods to show that those faults were not present at delivery. The timing belt issue 
arose after about five months. I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court 
would be, but in any event I think the engineers conclusion that the faults would not have 
been present at delivery are persuasive.
The investigator concluded that the final set of repairs (in September 2020) had not been 
authorised. The fact that Ms M had contacted Santander to say that the problems with the 
car had led her to decide she no longer wanted it is consistent with that finding. Against that, 
however, Santander has noted that she accepted a courtesy car from the dealership. I 
regard that as less persuasive; she could have done that expecting to return the courtesy car 
once the rejection had been processed.
However, Ms M could only reject the car if in fact it was not of satisfactory quality. As I have 
explained, however, I do not believe that to have been the case. If I were to conclude that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality, I would have to consider whether rejection would be fair, given that repairs have been completed in a satisfactory manner. I make no finding on 
that point, however.
As I indicated at the beginning of my findings, I dont believe Santander handled this matter 
as it should have done, in that it did not address Ms Ms complaint about the quality of the 
car. I cannot however make an award in respect of that unless I determine the underlying 
complaint in Ms Ms favour. On the basis of the evidence I have seen, however, I do not 
believe I can properly do that.
Ms M replied to my provisional decision. Her main points were, in summary:
She provided evidence of the work carried out by the dealership in the time she had the 
car and shortly before she acquired it.
She had had seven courtesy cars in total but was without a car on three other 
occasions. She had spent around £7,500 but had not been able to drive the car she 
bought. 
The failure of the timing chain at 35,000 miles is an indication that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality.  
In suggesting that the car may not have been properly maintained and services, the 
engineer was suggesting that she was at fault. 
The engine had suffered an oil leak before she bought the car. That might have been a 
contributory factor in the timing chain failure. 
The engine needed to be replaced after 6,000 miles of the rebuild, indicating a failed 
repair. 
The engine began overheating in August 2019, a month after the engine rebuild, and 
the cooling fan was replaced in September 2019.    
She was told in August 2020 that the warning light might indicate an ECU issue. 
The last courtesy car was returned in July 2020, some weeks before she returned her 
own car to the garage and sought to reject it and the finance. 
There were some discrepancies in the recorded mileage and in the engine numbers. 
Records had not been updated when the engine was replaced.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have not changed my view from that set out in my provisional 
decision. 
There is no dispute in this case that the car suffered a number of breakdowns, starting 
around five months after Ms M took delivery of it. Some of those were very serious and 
required major work  notably a replacement timing chain and engine replacement. And I 
accept that repairs were needed at a much lower mileage than might usually be expected. 
Indeed, most cars do not ever need a replacement engine, for example. 
What I must decide however is what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. That does not mean simply reaching a view as to whether or not the car was of 
satisfactory quality. I must also consider, for example, what the dealership and Santander 
have done to put things right. I noted in my provisional decision that the engineers report had concluded that the car 
probably was of satisfactory quality at delivery. The opinion of an expert in such matters is 
generally quite persuasive, although it is open to me to reach a different view. And the 
engineer did not of course have the benefit of inspecting the car at delivery  he had to try to 
assess its condition then from an inspection many months later. 
I note that the engineer checked the car on two occasions in September 2020. On the first 
inspection, he found some faults. They were rectified, however, and after the second 
inspection, the engineer concluded: 
The vehicle performed to a satisfactory standard with no instrumentation warning lights 
illuminating and no abnormal operational noise or defects. Upon completion of road testing I 
carried out a further diagnostic reading with no fault codes found.    
So, whatever the quality of the car had been before that point, the engineer concluded that 
the repairs that had been carried out had brought it into a satisfactory condition. 
I note what Ms M says about the provision of courtesy cars and that she was without her 
own car while it was being repaired. She was not however paying Santander only for the use 
of the car; she was also paying to become its owner, and the supply of a courtesy car meant 
that she was not without transport for at least some of the time when repairs were being 
carried out. 
I note too what Ms M has said about the mileage on different documents and the engine 
number. The mileage was recorded variously as 30,200, 30,203 and 30,262. In the 
circumstances, I do not believe the differences to be material. Similarly, the difference in the 
engine number was the addition of the letter A to a six-digit number. 
I fully understand that Ms M has suffered a number of problems with the car and that this 
has been frustrating for her. I do not believe however that I can fairly uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman