DRN-4149066
The complaint
Mr S complains about the actions of Advantage Insurance Company Limited in relation to a 
claim he made under his motorcycle insurance policy.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
A few weeks after purchasing a brand new motorcycle, Mr S was in an accident involving 
another vehicle. A car hit him from behind and Mr S was taken to hospital in an ambulance. 
Mr S says when he informed Advantage of the accident, he wasnt fit enough to take 
information on board. He says he had to ask the representative to slow her speech several 
times and was kept on the phone for a long time, despite reminding her of his severe 
discomfort and lack of concentration.
Mr S says Advantage didnt advise him of the option of making a claim against the other 
drivers insurance company. It offered Mr S a settlement of £4,000 for his motorcycle, which 
was rejected by Mr S.
Mr S raised a complaint with Advantage. He said his motorcycle had been taken to be sold 
at a salvage company without his consent. It had the private number plate that had cost him 
£250 on it. 
He was unhappy with Advantages settlement offer, which he said had been based on an ex-
demonstration model offered for sale and a car price guidebook. Advantage had sent him a 
cheque for £4,000 despite him rejecting the offer, so hed accepted it as an interim payment. 
Mr S said he was at a loss of £650 for the motorcycle and £250 for the number plate. In 
addition to this he had a damaged new crash helmet and had incurred costs of taxi fares and 
telephone calls.
Advantage said it had based the settlement on the market value of the motorcycle. It would 
usually use three separate guides, but due to the specialist nature of Mr Ss motorcycle, only 
one guide was able to offer a value, which was £3,463. It said it had taken into account the 
fact that the motorcycle was recently purchased and valued it at £4,000 which was well 
above the maximum guide figure. 
Advantage said it had listened to the call in which Mr Ss claim was registered and didnt feel 
that the service was poor. It said cheques are only ever issued on an interim basis and it 
would have issued a separate payment if it was looking to increase the valuation. 
Advantage said the costs Mr S had incurred as a result of the claim, taxi fares, his 
motorcycle helmet and changing his personal number plate would be considered uninsured 
losses and werent covered under his policy. It said Mr S might be able to claim these costs 
back from the third-party insurer. It said it wouldnt have informed him he could claim through 
the third-party insurer unless hed specifically enquired about it. 
Advantage agreed it could have done more to keep Mr S up to date and explain the claims 
procedures to him. It apologised for not informing him that his motorcycle had not been 
collected by its salvage company and for not responding to an email hed sent. It paid him 
£75 compensation for the service hed received.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked our service to look into his complaint. He had been able 
to claim some of his costs from the third-party insurer after taking court action. He said it 
would have been simpler if Advantage had advised him to make the whole claim against the 
third-party insurer, instead of two separate claims. The third-party insurer ignored two 
registered letters until court proceedings were issued against their client.
Mr S was unhappy that Advantage had only paid him £4,000 for the motorcycle hed paid 
£4,650 for. He said he couldnt reclaim five months remaining tax on the motorcycle because 
Advantage had removed it without his knowledge, and he didnt get the logbook. He said 
Advantage had cancelled his insurance after hed asked it not to and had made a small 
refund.
Mr S said he should be reimbursed for the loss of £650 and compensated for all the upset 
and work involved in making a claim.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns, but she didnt think his complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that Advantage had dealt with Mr Ss claim correctly and the 
settlement it had paid him was fair. The investigator said she couldnt look into the concerns 
Mr S had raised regarding the cancellation of his policy as this wasnt part of the complaint 
hed brought to Advantage. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He didnt think it was fair that he was offered 
an amount for the motorcycle that would not replace what hed lost, when it had been 
destroyed three weeks after hed bought it through no fault of his own. He said hed been 
worried about the requirement to report the accident within 24 hours. His head injury meant 
he wasnt thinking straight during the telephone conversation, and he felt he should have 
been asked to ring back after five days. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mr S has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. I wish to reassure Mr S Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
Claim settlement
The policy terms set out how Advantage settles claims:
For loss of or damage to your motorcycle your insurer will either:pay for any necessary repairs;
pay the market value of your motorcycle immediately before the loss (this is not 
necessarily the value you declared when the insurance was taken out).
The key facts section of the policy booklet also says that damage to the motorcycle will be 
paid up to its market value. So, Im satisfied this term was sufficiently highlighted to Mr S.
Market Value is defined as: The cost of replacing your motorcycle in the United Kingdom 
at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of a similar, make, model, age and 
condition. Publications may be used which refer to vehicle values such as Glasss Guide to 
assess the market value, with an allowance being made for the mileage, condition and 
circumstances of purchase by you.
Advantage has provided us with a screenshot of the trade guide which shows a retail 
transacted price of £3,463.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr S would 
have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a vehicle.
Advantage says only one trade guide provided a value for Mr Ss motorcycle. Its provided 
an advert for a motorcycle of the same make, cc and year as Mr Ss, with an advertised price 
of £3,994. Mr S has commented that this was a poor comparison to his own vehicle as it was 
an ex-demonstration motorcycle in a different colour. He says his own motorcycle was in 
pristine condition and only driven by himself. However, the advertised price of a vehicle is 
often higher than the market value because a dealer will build in a margin for negotiation. 
The settlement Advantage paid Mr S is above the advertised price of the motorcycle in the 
advert. Its also well above the trade guide price. So, Mr Ss comments about the differences 
in the two vehicles havent persuaded me that Advantages settlement offer was unfair.
I appreciate its upsetting for Mr S to have been paid a settlement which was £650 below 
what hed paid for the motorcycle only a few weeks before the accident. I can understand 
why he feels hes lost out, particularly as the accident wasnt his fault. However, the terms of 
the policy only required Advantage to pay Mr S the market value of his vehicle, not the price 
hed paid for it. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the settlement Advantage made 
Mr S was reasonable and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Customer service 
Mr S has raised concerns about the service he received when he called to notify Advantage 
of his accident. I appreciate Mr S was still suffering from the affects of the accident when he 
spoke to Advantage. However, Ive listened to the call, and I havent found reason to uphold 
this part of Mr Ss complaint.
The representative asked Mr S if he was alright and if he was okay to register his claim at 
the beginning of the call. Mr S said he was and asked the representative to speak slowly.   
Mr S seemed coherent and spoke articulately throughout the call, so I dont think the 
representative would have had any reason to think he didnt understand what was being 
said. The representative apologised for the call taking up so much time and Mr S mentioned 
feeling tired. However, the call ended just after that.The option of Mr S bringing a claim directly to the third-party insurer was discussed during 
the call. The representative gave him the name of the third-party insurer and their contact 
details. It was agreed that Mr S would decide what he wanted to do later on. 
Mr S has also complained that Advantage moved the motorcycle to a salvage company to 
be sold without his knowledge. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S told Advantage 
he wanted to retain the vehicle after it was declared a total loss. Advantage says it advised 
Mr S of what it needed to do to arrange the transfer of his cherished number plates and Mr S 
has confirmed he now has these. Advantage acknowledged that it didnt advise Mr S that his 
motorcycle had been collected by its salvage company in its response to his complaint. Part 
of the £75 compensation it paid him appears to be in recognition of this. I think this is 
reasonable.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr S, but overall, I think Advantage has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont require it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman