DRN-4412689
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was 
irresponsible when it offered her two credit card accounts.
What happened
Tesco opened a credit card account for Ms Y in August 2017 and another one a few months 
later in January 2018. The first had a limit of £3,200, the second a limit of £1,500 and neither 
limit was ever increased. I understand that both accounts are now closed.
Ms Y complained to Tesco in October 2022 that the credit was unaffordable and 
unsustainable for her. She said that each time she paid off her debts she had to borrow 
again and she made the minimum payments on each card. Ms Y said that she managed to 
repay the account balances by borrowing from elsewhere.  
Tesco didnt uphold Ms Ys complaint. It said that it used a variety of information to check 
that the credit would be affordable for her including information shed provided and 
information from the credit reference agencies. Tesco said it was happy to move forward 
with her application each time. 
Tesco said that Ms Ys first account was well maintained and fully repaid by June 2019. The 
credit limit was reduced to £350 in March 2021 and Ms Y closed the account in May 2021. 
Tesco said that Ms Ys second account was in and out of arrears. It reviewed the account in 
March 2021 and reduced the limit to £450. The arrears on the account remained around 
£140 and it issued a default and terminated the account in October 2021. Ms Y is repaying 
the balance through a debt management plan with a national debt charity. 
Ms Y referred her complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and 
recommended that it be upheld in part. They found that Tesco wasnt irresponsible to have 
opened the first account for Ms Y but it should have seen from the information it had that the 
second account wasnt likely to be affordable for her. 
Tesco didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Tesco, need to abide by. 
Tesco will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our 
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Tesco needed to check that Ms Y could afford to 
repay the credit out of her usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having to 
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. 
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for example the amount 
offered, and to Ms Ys particular circumstances. The overarching requirement was that 
Tesco needed to pay due regard to Ms Ys interests and treat her fairly. CONC gave an 
example of contravening this as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which 
are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my considerations are did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks when it opened each account for Ms Y to satisfy itself that she would be able to 
repay the credit offered within a reasonable period of time? If it didnt do this, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Tesco make fair 
lending decisions? 
August 2017 agreement
When Ms Y applied for her first credit card, Tesco recorded her net monthly income as 
£1,600, her housing costs as £480 and estimated her living costs using data from the Office 
of National Statistics (ONS). I dont know if Tesco sense-checked Ms Ys income using 
information from the credit reference agencies, but it did check her credit file and noted that 
there was no adverse information showing, and that she had existing debts of £10,486. 
Tesco had agreed a loan for Ms Y about a year before to refinance existing debt. It 
estimated that Ms Ys monthly repayments towards her debts amounted to £262 and 
estimated future payments towards her new credit card as £88. Tesco concluded that Ms Ys 
total monthly expenses came to £1,310, leaving her £290 spare.
I might consider Tescos checks to have been reasonable and proportionate if Ms Y were 
applying for a lower amount of credit. Given her stated salary and what she already owed, I 
think it would have been a reasonable response for Tesco to have verified Ms Ys income, 
aside from any sense-checking, and considered whether the ONS data was actually 
representative of her circumstances before offering her another £3,200 credit. 
Ms Y provided her bank statements and Ive reviewed these. To be clear Im not suggesting 
this is the information Tesco should have relied on but it is the information I have and I think 
its reasonable for me to rely on it to consider what further checks might have revealed. 
These show that Ms Ys income was lower at £1,544 a month and that she was paying 
around £360 towards her existing debts which was more than Tesco estimated. However, I 
think its likely Tesco would have continued with its offer even if it had carried out further 
checks, because it seems from the statements that Ms Y would be able to repay the credit 
out of her usual means without difficulty. It follows that I dont think Tesco was irresponsible 
to offer the credit to Ms Y.
Tesco has explained that Ms Y used the card to transfer an existing balance at a zero 
interest rate, and she wasnt charged any interest, late or overlimit fees on this account.
January 2018 agreement
When Ms Y applied for her second credit card, Tesco recorded her net monthly income as 
£1,600 and her monthly expenses as £1,489. Tesco estimated that Ms Ys monthly 
repayments towards her debts amounted to £529, including future payments towards her 
new credit card. It concluded that Ms Y would have an estimated £38 spare each month 
having met all her expenses. 
Our investigator found that Tesco lent irresponsibly because its assessment didnt leave Ms Y with a sufficient amount each month to meet any unexpected or unaccounted for 
expenses. Tesco said that this wasnt a reasonable way to determine the outcome of the 
complaint. It said that the ONS data it relied on accounted for day to day expenses and it 
would be unrealistic to consider hypothetical emergency spending.
I accept that Tesco wasnt required to consider a minimum surplus threshold in its 
affordability assessment however, it was required to consider the sustainability of the 
repayments for Ms Ys particular circumstances. When its affordability assessment found 
that Ms Y would have a relatively low amount left over each month and so a small variation 
in its estimates might have a bigger impact on its lending decision, I think it would have been 
a reasonable and proportionate response for Tesco to have looked into Ms Ys 
circumstances in greater depth before lending to her again.
In addition, Tesco knew that Ms Y owed almost £19,000, including a loan shed taken out a 
few months prior to this application, and agreeing more credit for her potentially committed 
her to spending a third of her income repaying her debts. Tesco had previously agreed a 
loan for Ms Y in mid-2016 to consolidate her debts and shed transferred an existing balance 
to her first credit card. I think Tesco should also have been concerned that Ms Y wasnt 
managing to make inroads into her debts and so offering more credit might not have been 
suitable for her at that time. 
As before, Ive reviewed Ms Ys bank statements to consider what further checks might have 
revealed about her finances. Had Tesco asked Ms Y for verification of her income, for 
example, its likely to have learnt that her regular monthly income was less than the figure it 
relied on at £1,544 and her rent, which was her main expense, was £515, higher than the 
figure of £480 it relied on. This meant that additional credit was likely to have been 
unaffordable for her from the outset  and Tesco should have recognised this risk before 
entering into the agreement. Given this and considering Ms Ys overall financial 
circumstances, I dont think Tesco treated her fairly when it offered her a second account. 
Tesco said that Ms Y experienced financial issues in 2021 due to the pandemic, therefore 
her difficulties were caused by this and not its lending decision. I accept that the pandemic 
had an adverse impact on Ms Ys financial circumstances and let me say at this point that I 
am sorry to hear things have been so difficult for her. As Ive explained above, I think the 
credit offered with this second account was unaffordable for Ms Y from the beginning. I 
understand that Ms Y took out a large loan from a high street bank around June 2019, and 
cleared the balances on her Tesco credit cards and loan at the same time. So, while Ms Y 
successfully repaid the credit, I cant say she did so out of her usual means. 
In summary, Ive concluded that Tesco was irresponsible to agree a second credit card for 
Ms Y. 
Putting things right
As per our usual approach I think its fair that Ms Y repays the capital as shes had the use of 
this but she shouldnt pay any interest, fees or charges associated with her account opened 
in 2018. Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the account removing all interest, charges or insurance premiums that have 
been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Ms Y along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Ms Ys credit file. Or, if after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms Y for the remaining amount or adjust an existing 
plan accordingly. Once Ms Y has cleared the balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Ms Y a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im partly upholding Ms Ys complaint about Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank and it now needs to take the above steps to 
put things right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman