DRN-2655067
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2000 alongside a mortgage. Ms D says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-
sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Ms D applied for her mortgage with Nationwide in July 2000 and at the same time a PPI 
policy was also taken out. Ms D says she was told she had to have the PPI to get the 
mortgage and it was added automatically.
Nationwide says the PPI was optional and Ms D chose to take it out. It also said it was 
suitable for her circumstances and so it wasnt mis-sold. But Nationwide did also consider if 
any excess commission and profit share had been paid during the time the PPI was active. It 
found that some excess commission should be repaid and offered Ms D £155.08 to refund 
the excess that was paid by Ms D.
Ms D maintained the PPI was mis-sold and also did not agree with the amount of 
compensation offered for the excess commission. So she brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our adjudicator thought the PPI had not been mis-sold and that the excess commission offer 
was fair. Ms D remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only considering the sale of the PPI and any compensation that is due 
in connection with the PPI and payments for it. Ms D has raised some issues about a life 
insurance policy but I am not considering that policy, as it was a separate policy. A separate 
complaint would need to be raised about that if Ms D has any concerns about it.
Where there is only limited evidence available, I have to consider what it most likely to have 
occurred, taking account of all the information I have available. Having taken everything 
provided by both parties into account, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint and I shall 
explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Ms D that the PPI was optional. Ms D says she was told 
she had to take out the PPI to get the mortgage as she was a first-time buyer and so she 
says the PPI was added automatically. 
I have looked at the documents and information provided by both parties in relation to this. 
The mortgage application completed by Ms D does not mention PPI at all. There is no 
condition or indication in that application form that states PPI has to be taken. If PPI were 
compulsory, which for some mortgages it could be, then that would be a condition of the 
mortgage. The application form does indicate that buildings insurance is a requirement, and 
this is set out in the application form as a condition of the mortgage. But there is no similar 
section or condition indicated for PPI, as would have been the case for any compulsory 
insurance. 
The PPI would have been applied for by completion of a separate form that was sent to the 
insurer. So Ms D would have been required to apply and sign separately to take out a PPI 
policy.
The mortgage offer sent out to Ms D, some seven days after completion of the mortgage 
application form, does have a section about PPI. This indicates the level of benefit and who 
the policy is to cover and also that the cover taken out was for 12 months. Every year Ms D 
had to renew the policy and notices would have been sent regarding this. The renewals 
would have indicated the renewal cost and also stated that the policy could be cancelled if 
cover was no longer required. 
This policy started in December 2000 and ran until 2020. It was only cancelled after Ms D 
brought her complaint that the policy was mis-sold. For the first six months the policy was 
active, it was provided free of charge, so the first premium for the PPI was not made until 
June 2001. 
I have noted Ms Ds comments and recollections about why she believes the six months free 
period was offered. However, where insurance products are sold with an initial free period, 
this is to make the policy more attractive and as an incentive to consumers to take a policy 
out. If a policy was compulsory it would be unnecessary for a free period to be offered as no 
incentive would be needed if a consumer had to have the policy.  
Also, when confirmation of the policy and the Certificate of Insurance was sent out, the 
covering letter would have set out the free period and when the first premium will be taken. 
And this would also make clear that the policy could be cancelled. 
I have not been provided with a copy of the application for the PPI, which would have been 
sent to the insurer not kept by Nationwide. But taking account of the facts and the 
documents that are available, I think at the time it should have been clear to Ms D she had a 
choice about taking out the PPI and that she could cancel it at any time. Nationwide had set 
processes in place to provide information about the PPI and I have seen nothing to show it 
did not follow those processes. Also as further information would have been sent out to 
renew the policy each year it should have been clear the policy would not continue if not 
renewed and so was not compulsory. 
Ms D redeemed her original mortgage in 2009 and took out a new mortgage. At this time, 
she chose to keep the policy and transfer it to cover the new mortgage, rather than cancel 
the PPI when the first mortgage was redeemed. This would have been discussed at the time 
and the fact she chose to keep and transfer the policy would suggest she was happy and 
wanted the cover, which also suggests that was always the case from when she took out the 
PPI in 2000. 
So based on the evidenced I have seen, I think it most likely that at the time, in 2000, Ms D 
was given information about the policy, including that she had a choice about taking it out, 
and at the time she chose to take it out. Ms D clearly knew she had the policy and what it 
covered as she made a claim on it a few years after it was taken out.
This was all over 20 years ago, and memories do fade. I note that although Ms D says she 
has some notes from the time, there seems to be a little confusion and inconsistency in what 
she has said about when she applied for the PPI. Initially when Ms D brought her complaint to this service, and later in response to our 
adjudicator, Ms D said she took out life insurance and PPI at the same time during a meeting 
with a financial advisor in August 2000. She says she was told she had to have that meeting 
about the PPI and life cover when she applied for her mortgage.
However, Ms D in a final submission, confirmed she took out the PPI at the same time she 
applied for her mortgage in July 2000. It seems that at the meeting in August 2000 she only 
took out life insurance, which was totally separate insurance to the PPI. By August 2000 the 
mortgage offer, including the information about the PPI policy Ms D had taken out, had 
already been issued, thus confirming the PPI application had already been made before the 
August 2000 meeting. So there would have been no discussion about PPI at that meeting. 
Ms D also said the buildings insurance she took out was optional, but that isnt the case. The 
mortgage application form clearly indicates that buildings insurance must be put in place. 
The information about this insurance, sent with the mortgage offer, indicates the 
specifications required as Ms D was taking this out through another source, but it was a 
requirement and condition of the mortgage that she had it. So it was not optional. 
As Ive said, it was many years ago and Ms Ds recollections of what happened at the time 
may have faded and become a little confused. So I have taken account of Ms Ds 
recollections in the light of all other documents and information available. 
Taking into account Ms Ds circumstances at the time the PPI policy was taken out, it 
appears the policy was suitable for her. Mrs D was eligible for the policy, in full time 
employment, had no pre-existing medical conditions and it seems the policy was affordable. 
Although Ms D had some work benefits for sickness, the policy would pay out in addition to 
this, making what could be a difficult time financially more bearable.
Nationwide say the sale of the policy was not advised and it did not assess the suitability of 
the policy for Ms D. It just provided information to Ms D about the policy and it was for her to 
decide if the policy was suitable. The records from the time are limited but the process 
followed as standard by Nationwide would have given some information to Ms D about the 
PPI and given her a choice about taking out a policy. 
It is possible better information could have been provided about the restrictions and 
exclusion of the policy. But I cannot see that better information would have affected Ms Ds 
decision to take out the policy. I say this because based on what Ms D has told us about her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think she was affected by the main restrictions or 
exclusions. For example, about employment status or pre-existing medical conditions. And 
the fact that Ms D made a successful claim on the policy also indicates it was suitable.  From 
the documents available from the time I can see the cost and benefits were set out clearly.
So I think even if full information was not provided, if Nationwide had told Ms D everything it 
should have, she would still have bought PPI and I am not satisfied the policy was mis-sold. 
But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because when the policy 
was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms D about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Ms D, that was unfair.
 
The case of Plevin in the Supreme Court determined that where a business gets a high level 
of commission and profit share it should disclose this. And where this is not disclosed then 
some of the commission paid as part of the PPI premiums should be repaid. The Financial 
Conduct Authority introduced rules in 2017 indicating that a high level or excess of commission should be deemed to be where the commission and profit share is more than 
50%.
This does not mean that where commission and profit share of more than 50% is paid, all 
the commission should be repaid to the consumer. It is only the amount that was more than 
50% that is excess, and it is this amount that should be repaid. 
In this case from 2000 until 2009 the levels of commission varied between 41.09% and 
54.75%. The only periods when more than 50% commission was paid was between 
01/01/2006 to 01/12/2007. During this period the rate ranged between 50.22% to 54.75% 
and the total premium being paid each month was £12.60.
Where the commission level was 50.22% this meant that £0.03p excess commission (that is 
the amount over 50% of the total premium  0.22%) is due back to Ms D. When the 
commission level was 54.75% the excess due back to Ms D was £0.60p. Where the 
commission level was 50% or below then nothing is due to be repaid to Ms D.
I can see that Nationwides calculations work out the amounts over 50% and included these 
in its calculation of the excess commission and profit share that should be repaid to Mrs D. 
The calculation does take into account the different levels of excess commission and profit 
share for each month. Also Nationwide has added compensatory interest for the time Ms D 
was out of pocket for the actual excess commission and profit share amounts. 
Ms D also re-mortgaged in 2009 to a totally new mortgage. As I have already indicated, at 
this point the PPI was continued, as is was a transferable policy. However, the underlying 
credit that the PPI was now connected to, was a regulated mortgage. This means that the 
excess commission and repayment rules are not applicable. 
I can see that Nationwide has actually calculated and paid the excess commission and profit 
share for the period from 2009 to 2020, however it did not need to repay the excess during 
this period as the underlying financial product was a regulated mortgage. So Ms D has 
actually received more compensation than she should have done, as the only credit the 
Consumer Credit Act s104 applied to, was the original mortgage that ran from 2000 to 2009.
Nationwide has offered and paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium for the whole period of both Ms Ds mortgages, so Ms D has 
actually got back more than she should have. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and I think the 
amount of compensation for the excess commission and profit share that Nationwide 
Building Society has paid, is more than it should have been, and so is fair. Therefore, I am 
not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman