DRN-2174761
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt pay a switching bonus 
when they moved their account there. They accepted they missed a deadline to fund the 
account, but said RBS was ignoring delays it caused in getting their account up and running.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A switched their account to RBS. They said that RBS hadnt paid a bonus of 
£150 they were supposed to receive. They accepted they missed a deadline to transfer in a 
total of £1,500. But they said theyd only missed the deadline by 18 days, and they hadnt 
had a working card reader on the account for almost a month. They thought that meant they 
hadnt had full use of their account for the first month, and it would be fair for RBS to extend 
the deadline by the same amount of time. Mr and Mrs A said they thought RBS should still 
pay the bonus. 
RBS said that Mr and Mrs A completed their switch at the end of November. They had some 
problems with their card reader, but those were resolved and the replacement card reader 
on their account was safely received by the end of December. They had until 10 January to 
pay the rest of the money in. And they didnt need a card reader to pay money into their 
account, they had paid some smaller amounts in without it. So RBS didnt think that the card 
reader had caused the problem. It wouldnt pay the switching bonus.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He understood that Mr and Mrs 
A had problems with the card reader, and that Mr A was away for a large part of December. 
But he could see from statements for the couples RBS account that they didnt pay in the 
required amount of £1,500 by the deadline of 10 January. They did have some use of the 
account once it was opened, and the card reader was activated at the end of December. 
Our investigator thought that the payment couldve been made by 10 January. Although he 
appreciated that this can be a very busy time of year, he didnt think that RBS had to extend 
the deadline for Mr and Mrs A.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. They said their use of the account was limited by not having a 
working card reader. Thats needed to make online payments, particularly when making a 
payment for the first time. They said if theyd had a fully functioning bank account, they 
wouldve made the payment well before the deadline. And they said they hadnt asked for 
compensation for the poor customer service when they made their complaint, they were only 
asking for the £150 bonus they missed out on. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He thought RBS dealt with the problem of the card 
reader quickly once it was told about it. And Mr and Mrs A were still able to make some use 
of their account before a working card reader arrived. It was unfortunate that Mr A was away 
when the replacement arrived, but as a joint account holder, Mrs A couldve made the 
transfer. Because no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this case.
Mr A told us that because the account wasnt ready to use when it was first set up, hed lost 
focus, and with the card reader problems, then the festive period, the deadline slipped. I can 
absolutely understand that. But I just dont think that means that RBS has to extend the 
deadline for him to pay a total of £1,500 into his account, so that he and Mrs A still get the 
switching bonus of £150. 
I know there was a delay in getting a working card reader on this account. But Mr and Mrs A 
didnt need a card reader at all to make the required payment. And if they did want to make 
sure they had the card reader, and so full use of the account before they transferred a large 
sum in, then they still had some weeks after the card reader was replaced, when the 
payment could have been made.
I know that Mr and Mrs A would have been expecting to make the large transfer into their 
new account sooner. So I considered whether they still had the money available to transfer, 
later than they anticipated. And I can see that our investigator checked on the status of their 
old account. They could still have made the transfer after Mr A returned home. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for RBS not to extend the 
deadline in this case. I know that Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed, but I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman