The complaint
Mr P complains that Equifax Limited recorded inaccurate information on his credit file.
What happened
In early June 2019, Mr P checked his credit file with Equifax. He found that the balance of 
his mortgage was wrong. And it showed he had joint accounts with his ex-partner. As this 
information was incorrect, he contacted Equifax to get it amended. 
Equifax told Mr P that it only records the information its given by financial businesses. So if 
the information was wrong, it would be because the bank and mortgage provider involved 
had reported it that way. It told Mr P to contact those parties directly to resolve the problem. 
Mr P checked his accounts with the financial businesses, and they had his information 
recorded correctly. He provided this evidence to Equifax, but it continued to maintain that it 
hadnt made an error. It took almost three months for Equifax to identify that one of its staff 
had input data incorrectly into its system. Its offered Mr P £200 compensation for this error.
Mr P doesnt feel that £200 adequately compensates him for whats gone wrong. He says 
this has caused him a great deal of trouble and upset. So hes brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator was satisfied that the compensation offered was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint. And he didnt recommend that Equifax should do anything more. As Mr P didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it 
will disappoint Mr P, Im not upholding his complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Equifax made a mistake by recording incorrect information on Mr Ps 
credit file. But what Mr P is disputing is the amount of compensation offered. So, I will 
consider whether the offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
Its clear Mr P feels very strongly about his complaint. And I can appreciate why he feels 
disappointed that a business such as Equifax could make a mistake when dealing with 
important information like someones financial records. But compensation isnt a means to 
fine or punish a business. Its to recognise the impact the mistake has had on Mr P. 
DRN-1149758Mr P says hes had to take time out of both his work and personal life to contact his bank 
and mortgage provider along with regularly contacting Equifax. He says this has caused 
arguments and unrest with his current partner and a great deal of emotional distress. Mr P 
also says he couldnt take out any loans whilst his credit file was incorrect. I understand how 
frustrating that wouldve been for him. But I havent been provided with any information to 
show me that he applied for a loan during this time, or that it was declined solely due to the 
increased debt on his credit file.  
From everything Ive seen and taking into account the trouble and upset Mr P has 
experienced in this case, I think £200 is fair because there was no financial loss to Mr P and 
the credit file was rectified within three months.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman