DRN-4485204
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) didnt make him 
aware of the financial problems he could suffer in retirement as a result of the income 
benefits arising from his personal pension plan (PPP). He says that he hasnt benefitted from 
the proceeds of the PPP as hes now required to pay them towards his rent and isnt now 
eligible for certain means tested state benefits. 
What happened
In March 1990 Mr M says he met with an adviser from Virgin at his place of work and agreed 
to contract out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) and also to make 
personal contributions to a PPP. 
In 2005 Mr M took his benefits from one of the plans which provided a tax free cash (TFC) 
sum of £252.59 and an annual pension of £22.44. In 2007 he took the benefits from the 
other plan and received TFC of £2,413.17 and an income of £31.21. 
In 2020 Mr M qualified for his state pension but following discussions with his local council 
found that the overall income he then received meant he was required to contribute towards 
his rent. He spoke with the annuity provider to get the income payments converted to a lump 
sum payment as he had been informed this wouldnt require him to contribute towards his 
rent. But although the provider was able to make a lump sum payment for one of the plans it 
couldnt accommodate him for the other one due to his medical history. 
So Mr M brought a complaint to us. We said that as the decision to pay the annuities as a 
lump sum was at the discretion of the provider, we couldnt compel them to make a lump 
sum payment for the second plan. Mr M then suggested that hed been mis sold the plan 
as he wasnt made aware of the implications of the pension income on his benefits. So he 
was advised to complain against Virgin  who had given the original advice. But Virgin said 
his complaint about its advice in 1990 had been brought too late because he ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the advice might have been unsuitable when it sent him 
letters in 1995 and 1996 offering to review the advice under the banner of the industry wide 
pensions review. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter.  She didnt think this was a complaint we could consider. 
She said that as the sale of the PPP had taken place more than six years ago, and Mr M had 
been sent  and received letters to review his pension more than three years before he 
complained  his complaint had been brought outside of the prescribed time limits set by the 
regulator. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed only been aware of these issues when he experienced 
problems with the council two years ago. He said he couldnt have been expected to be 
aware of them based on the letters that were sent to him thirty years or so ago. He says he 
wasnt ever told that the council could take his pension from him  so he couldnt be aware 
of that possibility and the letters wouldnt have alerted him to that fact. He said he wanted his 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
The investigator said that the letters advised him about the general suitability of the sale so 
ought to have made him aware of the matter hes now complaining about  namely that the 
sale of the pension might not have been appropriate for him.
So the matter was passed to me to review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional I reached the conclusion that we could in fact look at Mr Ms complaint  
but that it shouldnt be upheld. I made the following points in support of my findings:
I thought the main thrust of Mr Ms complaint had become somewhat lost so I 
wanted to simplify matters. The first stage of the simplification was to decide that it 
was a complaint we could consider.
One of our investigators had suggested that Mr M could complain about the advice 
around his annuity sales from 2005 and 2007  but this led to him making a 
complaint about the original advice to take out the PPP. But the annuity sales had 
been carried out on an execution only basis through the annuity provider, so I 
wanted to make Mr M aware that any complaint about advice from 2005 or 2007 
would be unlikely to be upheld as no advice was given to him  and Virgin wasnt 
involved in that process either.
So I went on to consider Mr Ms complaint that Virgin didnt make him aware of the 
post retirement financial implications in its original advice from 1990. But I didnt think 
Virgin had failed to make him aware or had done anything wrong.
I didnt think it would have been possible for Virgins adviser to have been aware of 
the situation Mr M would find himself in after he drew his state benefits in 2020. I 
didnt think it was fair to expect the adviser to draw Mr Ms attention to what was a 
quite specific possible situation. 
I wouldnt have expected the adviser to explain all the possible risks and 
consequences of taking out the PPP, but given they are designed to provide greater 
income  in retirement, beyond the pension paid by the state, I didnt think that the 
effect on the other benefits that someone might receive in the future would 
reasonably have factored into such discussions. 
I also took into account that it was only the combined overall income Mr M received 
in 2020 that caused his problems, and it wouldnt have been reasonable to expect 
the adviser to have foreseen that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Virgin said that it unconditionally accepted this was a complaint we could consider. It also 
said it accepted the provisional findings with regards to the merits of the complaint. 
Mr M however didnt agree. He said he didnt understand how we could decide to look into 
his complaint but then fail to uphold it. He reiterated his view that the adviser ought to have 
known how his benefits would be affected  given that he lived in council housing. 
He said he had now suffered a financial loss from taking out the PPP and wouldnt have 
taken it out if hed been aware of the potential for losing the proceeds to a third party. He 
says his state benefits have also been affected. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And having carefully considered both parties further submissions I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I know Mr M will remain disappointed with this outcome and I 
have some sympathy for the position that he now finds himself in. But I dont think Virgin has 
done anything wrong here, so Ill explain my reasons in an effort to give Mr M some closure 
to this matter.
In my provisional decision I said I thought we could consider this complaint - which was a 
different interpretation to that of our investigator. But Virgin has accepted that we can look at 
Mr Ms complaint so thats what my decision will concentrate on here. 
The advice in 2005 and 2007 
In 2005 and 2007 Mr M decided to access the benefits of his PPPs by taking TFC and 
residual annuities. So it could be argued that at these times it would have been appropriate 
for Mr M to have been advised of how drawing those benefits might affect other areas of his 
finances  such as state benefits. And I think that whats our investigator alluded to when he 
suggested Mr M could complain about the annuity advice. 
However, this was interpreted as being the original advice to take out the PPP, which is why 
a complaint was made to Virgin about the suitability of its advice. But for clarity  and to give 
Mr M further closure about the scope of his complaint, I think I need to confirm what 
happened in 2005 and 2007. On these dates Mr M himself asked to draw the benefits of his 
PPPs. He approached the providers  not Virgin - directly and didnt seek or receive any 
advice. He simply requested to take the TFC and annuities on offer. So it would be unlikely 
that if Mr M did make any complaint about the events of 2005 and 2007 it would be upheld. 
And, in any case, the complaint couldnt be made against Virgin because it wasnt involved 
in that process at all.
So Ive gone on to consider the broader complaint which was made against Virgin 
concerning the original advice it gave Mr M in 1990. The complaint is specifically that Mr M 
wasnt made aware by Virgin of the post retirement financial implications when he took out 
the PPP.
The 1990 advice  
Mr M says that Virgin ought to have made him aware of the possibility that, when he 
accessed his fund at retirement, the proceeds could affect his entitlement to state benefits 
and, in particular, the level of subsidy he received on the rent of his council property. He 
says if hed been given this information at the start he wouldnt have taken out the PPP. 
As this advice was given over 30 years ago theres now little evidence remaining which 
confirms what Mr M was told in 1990 or what was discussed. And of course, the 
requirements to record and document advice from that time were very different to what they 
are now. So its not possible for me to confirm what was said either in terms of general 
information or more specific risks and warnings that might apply to Mr M. 
But I can confirm that, as Mr M himself accepted, that it wouldnt have been possible to know 
the position that Mr M would find himself in 30 years later. 
So, as it wouldnt have been possible for the adviser to have been aware of the scenario that 
arose later when he made his recommendation in 1990, it wouldnt be reasonable to have 
expected him to discuss that very specific and individual (to Mr M) outcome. What I would 
have expected the adviser to have done was to make a general recommendation to contract 
out of SERPS and make additional contributions to a PPP  giving a high level overview of the general aims and objectives of the plan - and theres nothing to suggest that he didnt do 
that here.
I wouldnt have expected him to tell Mr M about every possible consequence of taking out 
the plan but, I would have expected him to confirm that its purpose was to provide enhanced 
pension provision in retirement, beyond the pension paid by the state. So I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for the adviser to have discussed the effect on the other 
benefits that someone might receive in the future.
I understand Mr Ms concern that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the plan if hed known 
the consequences as they are today, but I dont think its fair to say that the adviser should 
have discussed them in 1990, especially when neither he nor Mr M would have had any idea 
about the scenario that did unfold in 2020.  Indeed, the problem that Mr M faced in 2020 
wasnt caused solely by the existing annuities but by the addition of Mr Ms state pension. 
That was an unfortunate situation, but I dont think its reasonable to now suggest that 
Virgins adviser could have foreseen what was going to happen and warned Mr M about the 
consequences back in 1990. 
As I concluded in my provisional decision, on the basis of the objective of a PPP  to 
enhance an individuals income in retirement it wouldnt have been a reasonable 
expectation at the time of the advice for Virgin to have looked ahead to a potential situation 
of such additional income meaning that Mr Ms access to benefits was in some way 
restricted.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman