DRN-1270151
complaint
Mr and Mrs M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr A D and Mrs M E took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which just covered Mr M.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr A D and Mrs M E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr A D and Mrs M Es complaint for the following reasons.
Mr A D and Mrs M E wouldve had to complete a separate application form specifically for 
the MPPI. So, I think Santander made Mr A D and Mrs M E aware that they had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr A D and Mrs M E. The MPPI didn't cover Mrs M E 
because she was not employed at the time  so it wouldve been no use to her. While Mr A 
D had some sick pay, they had no other way of making his mortgage repayments  such as 
savings  if hed been off sick long-term or made redundant. The MPPI wouldve paid out for 
up to 36 months in the event of a successful claim, which is longer than Mr A D's sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So, it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. 
Its possible that Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr A D and Mrs M E would still have bought it. 
Its possible that Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover. But Mr 
and Mrs M doesn't appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr A D and Mrs M Es comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
 
 
 my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr A D and Mrs M Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A D and Mrs 
M E to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman