DRN-1626046
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited misled them about what 
cover they had on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a home insurance policy through Hastings in October 2016. This 
provided cover for Mr T and Mrs Ts buildings and contents, amongst other things. Mr and 
Mrs T had a ride-on lawn mower which fell within the scope of policy cover.
At renewal in 2017, the insurer of Mr and Mrs Ts policy changed. The new insurer didnt 
cover ride-on mowers. But when Mr T called up Hastings to discuss his policy, he was told 
the mower would be covered. So Mr and Mrs T went ahead with renewing their policy. And 
they renewed again the following year, in October 2018.
In September 2019, just before renewal, Mr T called Hastings again to check if he needed to 
specify his mower on his policy. Thats because the renewal information said items costing 
more than £1500 needed to be specified. The cost of replacing his mower would be more 
than this amount, so he wanted to check it would be covered.
Hastings call handlers told Mr T different things about whether hed need to specify the 
mower. Ultimately though, after checking with the insurer, Hastings told Mr and Mrs T that 
the policy didnt cover ride-on mowers. So Mr and Mrs Ts mower hadnt been covered after 
the policy renewed in 2017. 
 Mr and Mrs T werent happy with the misinformation theyd been given and complained. 
Hastings initially offered Mr and Mrs T £75 compensation to recognise its mistakes. 
But Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy. They felt the home insurance policy had been mis-sold 
to them, because theyd specifically wanted cover for the ride-on mower. They asked for a 
refund of the policy premiums theyd paid for the policy since 2017, when the insurer 
changed.
Hastings increased its offer of compensation by a further £50. It said itd discussed the 
situation with the insurer. Given Hastings had wrongly told Mr T the mower would be 
covered, it said the insurer wouldve covered any claims Mr and Mrs T mightve needed to 
make for it. But it didnt agree to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs T had paid. So Mr and Mrs 
T asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. While he 
acknowledged Hastings had given them misinformation about the policy, he didnt think 
theyd lost out as a result. He was satisfied the insurer wouldve covered any claims for the 
mower if theyd been made. He thought Mr and Mrs T had benefited from having buildings 
and contents cover between October 2017 and 2019. So he didnt think Hastings needed to refund their premiums. He also thought the compensation Hastings had paid Mr and Mrs T 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They didnt think the compensation Hastings had paid them 
reflected the inconvenience of being given repeated misinformation over an extended period.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs 
Ts complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Its clear that making sure the ride-on mower was covered by their insurance policy was 
important to Mr and Mrs T. I can understand why they were so unhappy when they found out 
it hadnt been covered for almost two years.
And its clear that Hastings has given them incorrect, conflicting and misleading information 
about the cover for the ride-on mower. Hastings acknowledges it wrongly told Mr T back in 
2017 that the mower would be covered. And in September 2019, Mr T was given conflicting 
information about whether he needed to specify the mower, before finally being told it wasnt 
insured.
So its clear that Hastings has made mistakes. I understand Mr and Mrs T feel they should 
be refunded the premiums they paid for the 2017-18 and 2018-19 policy years. 
But when I consider what Hastings needs to do to put things right, I need to consider what I 
think Mr and Mrs T were most likely to have done if theyd had the right information from the 
start. And I have to bear in mind what actually happened; whether there have been any 
financial losses because of the error; and the impact of the mistakes on Mr and Mrs T. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs T were mis-informed about what their policy covered. I think 
if theyd been told the mower wasnt covered back in 2017, its likely they wouldnt have 
taken up the policy with the new insurer. Thats because they didnt renew the policy in 
October 2019 when they found out the mower wasnt covered. I think theyd have shopped 
around for the right policy for them. Alternatively, they mightve chosen to still renew through 
Hastings, but take out a specialist policy for the mower.
But this would still have come at a price. And I havent seen any evidence to show me that 
Mr and Mrs T wouldve been able to get like for like cover, which included the mower, at a 
cheaper price. Ive also borne in mind that Mr and Mrs T have had the benefit of the rest of 
the buildings and contents cover, together with optional add-ons, during this period. While 
the mower wasnt covered, their property and contents was. 
Happily, Mr and Mrs T didnt need to make a claim for the ride-on mower. Hastings says any 
claim wouldve been covered because of the misinformation its call handler had given back 
in 2017. This is generally what Id expect Hastings to have done had Mr and Mrs T needed 
to make a claim. But I need to think about what did happen, not what mightve happened. 
And in this case, because Mr and Mrs T didnt need to claim for the mower, they didnt lose 
out because it wasnt covered.
Taking these things into account, I dont think I can fairly direct Hastings to refund the 
premiums Mr and Mrs T paid. Im satisfied they benefited from the policy as a whole and I 
dont think theyve shown me they suffered any actual financial loss because the misinformation they were given.
I understand Mr and Mrs T feel the compensation Hastings has paid them doesnt reflect the 
inconvenience they were put to. Ive thought about this. But it seems to me that they didnt 
find out about the original mistake until September 2019. Theyd had a response to their 
complaint within a few days. And while I dont doubt how frustrating it was to be given 
conflicting and wrong information, I think Hastings took prompt steps to put things right. So I 
think total compensation of £125 feels fair to recognise Mr and Mrs Ts trouble and upset.
Overall, I think Hastings has handled Mr and Mrs Ts concerns fairly. So I wont be telling it 
to pay them anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16July2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman