DRN-3952954
The complaint
Mr B complains Oplo PL Ltd (Oplo) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr B has complained with the 
help of a claims management company.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr B applied for, and was given a loan for £4,000, which was repayable over 
a period of 24 months. Mr B told Oplo the purpose of the loan was for car repairs and to 
repay arrears owing to his water company. The repayments were around £216 a month, and 
in total Mr B agreed to pay back about £5,190 over the two years, once interest was added. 
Mr B says Oplo shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable. Oplo says it 
did check whether the loan was affordable, and Mr B had enough disposable income to 
make the loan repayments.
Our investigator thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Oplo Limited disagreed, so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. Having 
thought about all of that, I have reached the same conclusions as those reached by our 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr B irresponsibly. It 
should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would 
be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what reasonable and 
proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be reasonably 
expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high sum, or taking 
out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the longer term.
Oplo did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. Oplo has said Mr B would 
not have been offered the loan if he had not passed its checking criteria. It explained that 
part of its checks involved reviewing the applicants credit profile to assess their income and 
expenditure, and it also used information from Mr Bs active credit file. 
Mr B was in permanent employment and declared he had been with the same employer for 
over seven years. He had also declared his take home pay as £2,000 a month when 
applying for this loan. Oplo used an automated check of his current account turnover to 
validate the declared income. I have some concerns about Oplo relying solely on a credit 
reference agency data tool to analyse Mr Bs current account turnover data and validate the 
income he had declared. I say this because Ive seen from his previous application eighteen 
months earlier to Oplo that Mr Bs current account was held jointly with his partner and both 
of their salaries were mandated to the one account.  And that Oplo validated Mr Bs average 
take home pay as close to £1,700 a month (and his partner took home on average £470 a 
month).
Ive noted the actual data returned included an income confidence factor score of 7, which I 
understand can include joint incomes. So Oplo ought either to have carried out further 
checks to ensure that Mr Bs partners income was available (also taking account of her 
expenditure) or to have validated his income by another means, as it had done previously. I 
accept it is possible that Mr B had received a pay increase in the time since his last 
application, but I think a 17.6% increase over 18-months was unlikely, given he was 
employed in the public sector. 
Although Im not convinced Mr Bs income was as much as he declared, I dont need to 
make a finding on his actual level of income. I say this because Im satisfied there is 
sufficient information available to show Mr B was experiencing financial difficulties. Oplos 
copy of Mr Bs credit file from the application shows that a County Court Judgement was 
registered against him for £918 in the month before. It also shows that his revolving credit 
balances  cleared by his previous Oplo loan  had increased to 99% of available limits, with 
16 cash advances within the last year, totalling around £2,950. And the purpose of the loan 
was partly to clear arrears on his water utilities account.
So in the 18 months since Mr B had consolidated his debts when he entered into the first 
agreement with Oplo, his total level of revolving credit had reached its limits again. And while 
he was generally keeping up with his payments towards his first agreement, this suggests
he had needed to keep borrowing more to be able to do this  it wasnt sustainable. I think 
Oplos assessment of Mr B having £438 disposable income (before the new loan repayment) 
is at odds with his wider financial situation as depicted on his credit file.
I think the information Oplo already had should have been enough for it to realise that
Mr B wasnt in a stable financial situation and further credit probably wasnt affordable. Cash 
withdrawals on a credit card are generally accepted to be a sign that someone might be in 
financial difficulties  as are utilities arrears. If Mr B had the level of disposable income Oplo 
calculated him to have, its unlikely he would have needed to advance cash on his credit 
card and pay the extra interest for this. So I also think it was wrong of Oplo to agree to lend 
Mr B any further money.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in 
the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given the loan in question. However, this 
isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. 
Mr B was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr B back in the position he would be in if he 
hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way of putting 
things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think Oplo PL Ltd should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to his loan from the outset. The payments 
Mr B made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr B 
has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to him. b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mr B to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this loan, 
once the debt is repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. Oplo PL Ltd  should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct Oplo PL Ltd to put 
things right for him in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman