DRN-1805301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Hood Travel Limited mis-sold them an annual travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had booked a holiday abroad and were due to travel in August 2019. In April 
2019, they took out a travel insurance policy to cover their trip, with an insurer Ill call T. They 
declared their medical history to B, including the fact that their daughter, Miss B, had 
recently been diagnosed with a neurological condition. T agreed to cover the familys 
medical conditions.
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Miss B was admitted to hospital following a seizure. Mr and 
Mrs B let T know about whatd happened. T told Mr and Mrs B it wasnt able to offer any 
further cover for Miss Bs medical condition. It told them they could either make a 
cancellation claim on the policy; seek alternative cover with a different insurer and get a pro-
rata refund of premium; or keep the policy, but with no cover for Miss Bs medical condition.
Mr B called Hood to get a quote for an annual travel insurance policy. He declared all of the 
familys medical history and he also let the call handler know that there was the potential 
that they might need to make a claim. A quote for European cover was initially provided, but 
this was later amended to worldwide cover. Mr B sought reassurance from Hood that the 
familys medical conditions would be covered, given the big difference between its quote and 
other providers. Hood told Mr B the whole family would be covered. So he took up the policy 
and paid a premium of around £297.
As theyd found alternative insurance to cover their trip, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy 
with T and received a pro-rata refund on that policy. But when they got the policy documents 
from Hood, they noticed that Miss Bs condition was excluded from cover. So they got in 
touch with Hood.
Hood said the policy should never have been sold to Mr and Mrs B. Thats because Mr B 
had told the first call handler that there was the potential they might need to make a claim. It 
said that the quote shouldnt have gone ahead. And it said it wouldnt cover Miss Bs medical 
condition because the policy insurer felt the risk of a claim was too high. It refunded Mr and 
Mrs B the premium theyd paid.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the way Hood had handled the sale of their policy. They 
said theyd lost the chance to make a cancellation claim on their policy with T. And they were 
left in the position of either having to cancel the trip and lose out on the money theyd paid 
out or pay over a thousand pounds for a new policy. Ultimately, they took a loan from Mrs 
Bs family and were able to buy a single-trip basic policy which did cover Miss Bs conditions 
for around £900. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Shed listened to the 
calls between Mr B and Hood and she felt Mr B had made every effort to check that Miss B 
would be covered. Mr and Mrs B had said they werent prepared to pay any price for a new 
policy and theyd had to take a loan to pay for the new policy. So she thought it was most 
likely theyd have made a cancellation claim on their policy with T if theyd known the actual 
situation. But theyd lost the chance to do so. She thought the fair outcome would be for 
Hood to pay the difference in price between the new policy and the cost of Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy with Hood. She also thought Hood should pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused them.
Hood disagreed. It said it felt Mr and Mrs B had had the chance to make a cancellation 
claim. It said if they were in a situation where they couldnt afford an alternative insurance 
policy, they shouldve made a cancellation claim on their policy with T. It agreed to pay Mr 
and Mrs B £150 for their distress and inconvenience.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Hood has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Hood shouldnt have sold this policy to Mr and Mrs B. Ive listened 
to the sales calls. I think Mr B did all he possibly couldve done to try and ensure he and his 
family were covered. He answered questions about Miss Bs health honestly and he let the 
first call handler know there was a potential reason they might need to make a claim. Hood 
clearly told Mr B that his family were covered for everything under the policy. Given the 
discrepancy between the cost of Hoods quote and other quotes Mr B had got elsewhere, he 
took care to check and re-check that everything had been recorded correctly. This included 
going through screening again, just to be sure.
At no point during any of the sales calls did the call handlers let Mr B know Miss B wouldnt 
be covered. And in fact, Hood later told them the policy should never have been sold at all. I 
dont think there was any way Mr and Mrs B couldve known there was a problem and that 
the policy didnt provide the cover theyd been led to believe. They entered into a legally 
binding contract with Hood to provide them with travel insurance on that basis. 
Hood thinks refunding the premiums Mr and Mrs B paid was enough to put things right. It 
argues its actions didnt cause Mr and Mrs B to lose out on the chance of making a 
cancellation claim with T. It says they shouldve made a claim on their policy with T if they 
couldnt afford insurance elsewhere. I disagree.
Ive seen copies of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance paperwork with T. Its clear it was initially 
prepared to cover Miss Bs condition and Mr and Mrs B had paid an additional premium for it 
to do so. When Mr and Mrs B updated it about the change in Miss Bs health, it let them 
know it couldnt offer cover for that condition any longer. It gave them three clear choices: to 
cancel the trip and make a claim; seek alternative cover and get a premium refund; or travel 
as planned but without cover for Miss B.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that theyd planned and saved for the trip for a long time. So they 
wanted to go on the trip if they could. It seems entirely reasonable to me that given T had 
suggested they look elsewhere for cover, they chose to do so before making the decision to 
cancel their trip. Theyve said given they were paying for treatment for Miss B, they couldnt 
have afforded to pay any amount for a travel insurance policy. Its clear theyd called around 
and got a few quotes which were around £1300 for a single trip policy. The fact they were 
still looking around for insurance suggests to me that this amount was too high. And indeed, the fact Mr and Mrs B took out a loan to cover the single trip policy they eventually did take 
out suggests this price was too high for them. 
But Hood provided Mr and Mrs B with a quote which was affordable for them and it 
repeatedly led them to believe they were fully covered. Taking this policy wouldve meant 
they could travel as planned or had cover if they did ultimately need to cancel due to Miss 
Bs health. So I can entirely understand why they took out this policy and chose not to make 
a cancellation claim with T.
And I can also understand why, when they believed they had suitable alternative insurance 
in place, Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy with T and got a premium refund. It looks like 
they cancelled this policy before they learned about Hoods mistakes. It was at this point that 
they lost the chance to cancel their trip. And they were left in the position of either losing a 
substantial amount of money for the trip itself if they had to cancel or having to pay more 
than they could afford for insurance. 
I think its most likely, given this, that if Mr and Mrs B had known Hood couldnt cover them, 
they would have opted to claim on their policy with T at this point and recoup the money 
theyd paid for their trip. This means Im satisfied that because of Hoods errors; Mr and Mrs 
B did lose their chance to make a cancellation claim. And instead, they had to pay out more 
than they could afford to take out alternative, less-comprehensive insurance. So Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs B have suffered detriment because of Hoods mistakes.
So I think the fair outcome here is for Hood to pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between the 
price they paid for their new policy and their policy with Hood. It must also add interest to this 
amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date Mr and Mrs B paid for the new policy 
until the date of settlement.
Im pleased to see Hood agreed to the investigators recommendation to pay Mr and Mrs B 
£150 for their distress and inconvenience. I agree that this is fair compensation for the 
stress, upset and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B were caused when they learned about 
Hoods mistakes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Hood Travel Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B the difference in price between their policy 
with it and the new policy they had to buy to cover Miss B. It must add interest to the 
settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date the policy was purchased until the 
date of settlement.
I also direct Hood to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of £150.
Hood must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs B 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
*If Hood considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman