DRN-3700458
The complaint
Ms Z says Nationwide Building Society treated her unfairly when reporting information about
her account holdings with it to credit reference agencies (CRA).
What happened
Ms Zs complaint involves a flex (current) account overdraft, a loan and a credit card, all held
with Nationwide.
Ms Z experienced difficulty in repaying the overdraft on her current account. As a result, she
entered an arrangement to pay with Nationwide in 2018 to help clear the outstanding
balance. Ms Z maintained her payments under the arrangement, but she says she was sent
two letters by Nationwide in October 2019 explaining she had defaulted on the arrangement.
Ms Z raised this with Nationwide and it agreed that a letter was sent in error.
As a result, Nationwide and Ms Z agreed the account would be closed once the overdraft
had been cleared in full. This was due to happen in July 2020, however, due to a credit
payment entering the account putting the account in credit, it remained open. Ms Z noted
negative reporting on her credit file in relation to this account and raised it with Nationwide.
The issue was investigated, and Nationwide confirmed the account had remained open
because of the credit payment mentioned above. It was eventually closed in July 2021. But it
didnt think it had reported any incorrect information to the CRA.
Ms Z did not think Nationwide had done enough in updating her credit file. Ms Z said the
negative reporting had an impact on other credit accounts she held and resulted in her
having to take a mortgage with a higher interest rate.
During this period Ms Z also raised concerns about the loan she held with Nationwide. Ms Z
says she kept Nationwide updated about her situation and her plans for repayment, so any
negative entries recorded on her credit file are unfair.
Ms Z has also raised concerns about her credit card with Nationwide which was taken in
2011. Ms Z initially raised a complaint about a default relating to this credit card in February
2017. This was subject to a complaint which our service has previously assessed. And
Nationwide was directed to reinstate the balance on the card, allowing Ms Z to make
repayments towards it.
Our investigator looked at all of the available evidence and recommended Ms Zs complaint
be upheld. Ultimately, he thought Nationwide had  during the course of this complaint,
made the appropriate adjustments to Ms Zs credit file. But he acknowledged that there had
been some incorrect reporting before this, and he thought this wouldve had a negative
impact on Ms Zs credit file. So, he recommended Nationwide pay Ms Z £250 in recognition
of the distress caused to her by its errors.
Nationwide agreed with the recommendation. Ms Z remained unhappy and didnt think this
was a fair way to resolve her complaint. As no agreement could be reached, the case has
been passed to me  an ombudsman  to issue a final decision.
I looked at Ms Zs case and issued my provisional decision on 17 August 2022. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching
a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply reflects the
informal nature of our service.
Ms Zs complaint relates to a, a credit card, loan and a current account overdraft. I will deal
with each one in turn.
Credit Card
Ms Z credit card account was subject to a previous complaint referred to this service. Ms Z
says Nationwide continued to report a default on her credit file when in the previous
complaint Nationwide had been directed to remove the default.
I cant comment on the outcome of the previous complaint case as it has already been
reviewed by our service. But looking at Ms Zs credit file and the available evidence for the
credit card, it does seem that Nationwide settled the complaint as directed. I can see the
credit card is currently showing as settled and the default that was applied has been
removed.
Based on Ms Zs representatives most recent correspondence the credit card reporting no
longer appears to be an issue for Ms Z, and they are satisfied the entries are now accurate.
Loan account
Ms Z is unhappy with how Nationwide has reported her repayments for a loan she took out
in February 2014. Its not in dispute that Ms Z struggled to meet her contractual repayments
on her loan account. But she says she was assured a default would not be applied.
Looking at the loan account history, I can see Ms Z missed a number of repayments, and
there was a period of many months where no repayments were made at all. I accept Ms Z
kept Nationwide updated about her financial situation and her plans to make a partial
repayment, but having listened to the call recordings Nationwide has provided from this time,
Im satisfied Ms Z was told that late and missed payments will be reported on her credit file.
I think it was made sufficiently clear to Ms Z the impact of not making her repayments would
have, and that her account would pass over to the recoveries team.
Nationwide is under an obligation to accurately report information to credit reference
agencies. In this instance, although Ms Z was in contact with Nationwide about her
repayment plans, the fact remains that payments were not made in accordance with the
agreement she had initially with Nationwide. So, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong
when missed payments were recorded on Ms Zs credit file.
I can see that a default was subsequently recoded in February 2018. I appreciate this was a
difficult time for Ms Z, but given the state of the account, I dont think Nationwide
registered the default incorrectly. So, I cant say that Nationwide should remove the
information it recorded.
It does however seem that once the loan was eventually settled the correct information to
reflect this was not recorded. The loan showed as partially settled from July 2018 to June
2021, when it should have been recorded as fully settled. I think this wouldve had an impacton Ms Zs credit score. Although Nationwide has now amended this, I do think it had a
responsibility to accurately record this information at the outset. Ill come back to what
Nationwide needs to do to put things right later in my decision.
Current account overdraft
Ms Z says Nationwide didnt accurately report information about the overdraft on her current
account. Ms Z had a repayment arrangement between July 2018 and May 2021 for her
overdraft. I can see Nationwide issued Ms Z with a letter explaining she defaulted on this
agreement to repay the overdraft. Nationwide has confirmed this was an error on its part and
this should not have been issued as Ms Z did meet her repayment obligations under the
agreement set up with Nationwide. But it remains that an arrangement was in place, so
Nationwide was correct to report this was the case.
Nationwide and Ms Z agreed that the current account would be closed once Ms Z had made
all the necessary payments to clear her overdraft. It seems this didnt happen as it should
have in June 2020. Nationwide has looked into this and explained that, as a payment went
into the account leaving a credit balance, this resulted in the account remaining open which
in turn resulted in Ms Zs credit file continued to show the account as active. The account
was eventually closed in July 2021
I dont think Nationwide did enough when handling this issue. Im persuaded that the
continued recording of this account  when it shouldve been closed, impacted Ms Zs credit
file. And Nationwide didnt take any pro-active steps to deal with this. It seems that although
Ms Z raised concerns at the time, they werent properly dealt with and it was only after she
raised a formal complaint a year later that the issue was investigated. Following the
investigators review, I can see Nationwide has confirmed it has now manually entered a
settlement date on Ms Zs credit file relating to this account. Im satisfied that this should now
put this matter right in terms of how the account is reported on her credit file.
Summary
Throughout the investigation there has been a great deal of correspondence about the
entries on the credit file, their timing and their meaning. Ms Zs representatives do not think
the credit file has been appropriately amended. But I have looked at the entries and while I
appreciate it is not entirely clear at the outset what had been entered, on closer inspection I
am satisfied Nationwide has taken the necessary steps to amend Ms Z credit file accurately.
Taking this all into account, I wont be asking Nationwide to amend her credit file further. I
understand this will come as a disappointment, but the accurate reflection and reporting of
an individuals credit situation is an important regulatory requirement for providers such as
Nationwide.
I note that Ms Z thinks Nationwide should pay compensation to cover additional mortgage
costs she incurred and inconvenience she has encountered with another credit provider. But
I cant say that Nationwides errors - in failing to update her credit file accurately, are solely
responsible for these problems. As mentioned above, Ms Z did have repayment problems.
She missed some payments and entered into payment arrangements on two accounts. In
addition, Ive concluded that her loan account was correctly defaulted. So, I think this
information would have always impacted on any request for a mortgage or other credit
accounts. So, Im not going to ask Nationwide to cover the costs Ms Z incurred on her
mortgage.
I also note that Ms Z wants Nationwide to cover the costs in asking a third party to representher in bringing her complaint. As our investigator has explained, we dont expect a business
to cover such costs. Ms Z could have referred her complaint to Nationwide and subsequently
this service free of charge. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to cover the costs incurred as a
result of her decision to use a third-party representative.
It's not in dispute that Nationwide didnt update Ms Zs credit file when it should have. And
that it could have done more when the closing of the current account was delayed.
The investigator recommended Nationwide pay Ms Z £250 for the distress caused by this
matter. So, Ive thought about whether this is fair. Overall, given that reporting issues were
found on Ms Z accounts and the length of time this matter has been ongoing, I think £350
more accurately reflects this distress and inconvenience caused.
I know this will not be the outcome Ms Z was hoping for and she will be disappointed with
the decision Ive reached. But I hope my provisional decision provides some clarity around
why I wont be asking Nationwide to make any further changes to her credit file or pay more
compensation than that mentioned above.
Putting things right
Nationwide has amended Ms Zs credit file based on the investigators recommendations. In
addition to this it should:
Ensure the reporting remains accurate and work with any credit agencies to ensure
any outstanding/further updates are recorded effectively.
Pay Ms Z £350 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience
suffered.
Responses to the provisional decision
Nationwide replied to the provisional decision, explaining it had nothing further to add. Ms Z 
responded explaining that she didnt agree that her credit file report had been fully corrected. 
But she said she didnt want to pursue this further. However, she explained that she had to 
appoint a solicitor as Nationwide failed to properly deal with her queries and complaint. And 
she feels Nationwide should compensate her for the legal costs she has incurred, as well as 
the costs associated with her mortgage as she had to appoint a specialist broker. These 
costs include:
£199 admin fee. 
£1,495 broker fee. 
£1,495 mortgage fee. 
£228  legal fees for the complaint.
£500 - compensation for stress and inconvenience.
As both sides have responded to my provisional decision, I will now issue my final decision 
on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further points raised by Ms Z. She says the negative entries on her credit 
file meant she couldnt easily obtain a mortgage and she had to use a specialist mortgage broker. But as I said in my provisional decision, I cant say that Nationwides errors - in failing 
to update her credit file accurately, are solely responsible for the costs Ms Z has incurred. 
While Nationwide made mistakes, Ms Z also faced problems meeting her repayments  
which Im satisfied would have been reported on her credit file. And Im persuaded this 
information would have always had a negative impact on her credit score and any lending 
application she subsequently made. So, I think its most likely Ms Z would have always 
incurred additional costs in obtaining a mortgage. This means it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Nationwide to cover them.
I understand Ms Z feels she has had no choice but to appoint a solicitor to help with her 
complaint, as she wasnt making any progress with Nationwide. Although I do agree 
Nationwide couldve handled matters better, I dont think this means it should be responsible 
for Ms Zs legal costs. Ms Z made the decision to seek legal assistance, without any 
assurance the costs would be covered by Nationwide. The option to contact this service free 
of charge was always available to Ms Z and this is what she ultimately did.  So, Im not going 
to tell Nationwide to cover the legal costs Ms Z incurred.
Ms Z also says the compensation award should be £500. Deciding on awards for distress 
and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are subjective by their 
very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. I dont doubt that 
Ms Zs ongoing complaint with Nationwide has been the source of considerable stress and 
worry for Ms Z. But Ive thought carefully about the impact Nationwides mistakes have had 
on Ms Z, and I think £350 fairly reflects the issues she has faced. And my direction to 
Nationwide to ensure the credit reporting for Ms Z remains accurate will also go some way in 
helping Ms Zs situation.
I am sorry to learn of the effect this complaint has had on Ms Z. I hope the reasons set out in 
both this decision, alongside my provisional decision, will go some way in helping her 
understand why I wont be asking Nationwide to do any more than outlined in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Nationwide has amended Ms Zs credit file based on the investigators recommendations. In
addition to this it should:
Ensure the credit reporting remains accurate and work with any credit agencies to 
ensure any outstanding/further updates are recorded effectively.
Pay Ms Z £350 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience
suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman