DRN-2851658
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about the way they were treated by West Bromwich Building 
Society when their mortgage fell into arrears. They ask for compensation and an apology. 
Mr L has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage fell into arrears in early 2019 after Mr L was made redundant 
from his job. Mr and Mrs L started making contractual monthly payments again in mid-2019, 
and also made payments towards the arrears. 
Mr L received a letter from West Bromwich in late October 2019. This said it intended to 
send debt field agents to the property, that hed missed payments and it would report arrears 
to the credit rating agencies. Mr L says this caused significant upset to him and his family. 
He says West Bromwich threatened and harassed him and made false statements about 
him.
Our investigator said West Bromwich had to explain the consequences of not making 
mortgage payments, which could ultimately result in the property being taken into 
possession. He said West Bromwich needed to give Mr L and Mrs L information about the 
account and was entitled to take steps to recover the debt owed. While this was upsetting for 
Mr L and Mrs L, West Bromwich hadnt acted unfairly. West Bromwich said its letter about 
field agents was unclear and some calls could have been handled better. It offered £150 
compensation which the investigator said was fair.
Mr L sent detailed comments about why he didnt agree.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L expressed strong views and has written in detail about what happened here. We offer 
an informal dispute resolution service. Consistent with this, I wont comment on everything 
Mr L has said. Instead, Ill focus on whats at the heart of this complaint: whether West 
Bromwich treated Mr L and Mrs L fairly after their mortgage fell into arrears in early 2019. 
What happened  in summary
Mr L was made redundant in January 2019.
No payments were made to Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage account in January, February, 
March and April 2019. A concession was in place for March to May 2019.
Payments were made to the mortgage account in May 2019, and the direct debit was re-
instated from June 2019. Arrears were about £2,500.
From June 2019 Mr L made additional payments towards the arrears. No formal 
payment arrangement was in place.
Mr L spoke to West Bromwich in May and July 2019. He said he intended to clear the 
arrears, but didnt provide information about his financial situation. No arrangement was 
agreed. 
West Bromwich sent a letter in October 2019 about the arrears and a visit from a field 
agent. Arrears were about £2,400.
Mr L spoke to West Bromwich. He said he intended to clear the arrears. No arrangement 
was agreed. West Bromwich said it would contact him again in January 2020.
By January 2020 arrears were about £2,000.
Were Mr L and Mrs L kept informed about their mortgage account?
West Bromwich says it sent letters about payments missed in early 2019. It says it sent 
monthly arrears statements which set out the missed payments. West Bromwich provided 
copies of letters and statements to support what it said. 
The arrears statements said while the account was in arrears by one monthly payment or 
more this information would be passed to the credit reference agencies. 
Did West Bromwich harass Mr L and Mrs L?
I can understand that Mr L and Mrs L found this situation upsetting. Theyd maintained 
mortgage payments for many years and their mortgage is due to expire in the near future. 
Mr L and Mrs L had other commitments and outgoings to meet as well as their mortgage.
Ive listened to the phone calls between Mr L and West Bromwich. Having done so, I think 
Mr L intended to do what he could to get his mortgage back on track and meet his other 
commitments. He told West Bromwich hed pay the arrears. Mr L said Bromwich should 
have trusted that hed do this. He found its questions and requests for evidence, such as a 
copy of his job contract, upsetting. 
I dont think this was West Bromwichs intention. Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage was in arrears. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require West Bromwich to make reasonable efforts to reach 
agreement with Mr L and Mrs L about repaying the arrears. This should aim to repay the 
arrears over the shortest possible time, and before the term expires. It wasnt enough for 
West Bromwich to leave it to Mr L to manage the arrears. West Bromwich had to consider 
how it could help Mr  L and Mrs L get their mortgage back on track. To do this, it needed to 
understand more about Mr L and Mrs Ls circumstances so it could assess what 
concessions it could offer, and what payments would be were affordable. I think it was fair 
for West Bromwich to ask Mr L for information about his circumstances.
Was it fair for West Bromwich to write to Mr and Mrs L in October 2019?
Mr L and Mrs L had been making payments to their mortgage account from June 2019. 
However, they didnt have a formal arrangement with West Bromwich about the amount of 
the payments they made each month and they didnt make regular payments towards the 
arrears. In October 2019 the arrears totalled about £2,400. West Bromwich said it was 
unable to get in contact with Mr L and Mrs L by phone and didnt get a response to its letters. 
Mr L said his work commitments made it difficult for him to speak to West Bromwich when it 
called. 
By October 2019 West Bromwich hadnt been in recent contact with Mr L and Mrs L. I think it 
was fair for West Bromwich to write to Mr L and Mrs L. I think it was fair for it to explain that 
this was because of the arrears (which it referred to as missed payments) and because they 
hadnt been in contact. In the circumstances, I think it was fair for it to try another way to contact them: in this case to ask a field agent to visit. As this would incur a fee which would 
be applied to the mortgage account, I think it was fair for West Bromwich to write to Mr L and 
Mrs L first.
West Bromwich accepts that the wording of the letter upset Mr L. The letter referred to the 
arrears as missed payments. The letter didnt explain the role of debt field agents and Mr L 
thought they were bailiffs. West Bromwich said the letter should have been clearer. It offered 
compensation of £150 for the upset caused. I think this was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Was it fair for West Bromwich to apply interest to the arrears?
West Bromwich applied interest to the mortgage balance. This included the arrears. This 
was in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. I dont think it was wrong or unfair 
for it to do this.
Putting things right
West Bromwich offered £150 compensation to Mr L for the upset caused by its letter about 
the arrears and a visit by a field agent. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
While I appreciate that Mr L found his discussions with and letters from West Bromwich 
upsetting, I dont think West Bromwich treated Mr L and Mrs L unfairly. I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to pay further compensation. 
While the complaint has been with us, Mr L and Mrs L and West Bromwich agreed a term 
extension. If Mr L and Mrs L maintain monthly payments their mortgage will be repaid when 
the new term expires. 
My final decision
My decision is that West Bromwich Building Society should pay Mr L and Mrs L £150 
compensation, as it offered to do.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman