DRN-2080305
The complaint
Mr J has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited couldnt process his 
income drawdown payment in time for the 2019/2020 tax year. The result of this will be a 
significantly increased tax bill.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js main point of complaint is that Prudential prevented him from being able to receive an 
income drawdown payment in time for the 2019/2020 tax year. He says that this failure will 
cost him a lot in tax.
So what I have to decide is whether Prudential is responsible for Mr J being unable to 
withdraw the money in time.
Having considered the evidence, ultimately my view is that Mr J started the process too late 
and therefore didnt leave enough time for Prudential to carry out its requirements in time.
Mr J has said that Prudential should get more staff in at busy times, such as the end of the 
tax year. However, whilst I dont know what Prudentials staffing process is around this time, 
I dont think its realistic to expect it to significantly increase its staffing capacity at certain 
times of the year. And even if it could, there are always going to be some requests that are 
made too late. And in this case Mr J made his enquiries very late in the day.
Mr J first contacted Prudential on the 26 March just five working days before the end of 
2019/2020 tax year. The call handler explained that to take his first payment hed need to 
have a call with Prudentials specialist team and they couldnt put him through at the time, as 
the lines were so busy. They said theyd arrange for a call back by the end of play the next 
day.
However, Prudential didnt stick to this commitment and Mr J didnt receive this call until the 
31 March. And at this point he says he was told it would be too late to process in time. He 
says he was told that it could take 10 days to process the application and another five to 
make the payment.
Prudential have subsequently explained even if they had carried out the call-back when it 
said, its standard timescales for processing applications is five working days. And those five 
working days start from the receipt of all its paperwork, which would still need to have been 
sent to Mr J. And then signed and returned by him.
So I think its clear that realistically it wasnt going to be possible for Mr Js payment to be 
made in the short timescale that he required. Prudentials five days also wasnt taking into 
account the fact that it was the busiest time of year. So I dont think Prudentials delay 
changed matters for Mr J, though it was poor customer service from Prudential not to stick to 
its call-back promise.
When Mr J complained he also raised other issues, he was understandably annoyed that 
Prudential hadnt stuck to the call-back commitment. He also hadnt received his annual 
statement which had been due in November 19. His fund value had dropped quite 
significantly and he was unable to access his plan on Prudentials website. Furthermore, 
Prudential had sent him feedback questionnaires whilst he was still awaiting the result of his 
complaint. Prudential paid Mr J £200 as compensation regarding the above. 
So in regards to these complaint points, I need to decide whether an award of £200 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Prudential shouldve stuck to its commitment to call Mr J back when it said it would. This 
wasnt good customer service. It also explained that it had a system issue that was 
preventing it from sending the annual statements, but this is a service it should be providing. 
And I can understand this wouldve been frustrating for Mr J. Whilst I understand Mr J might 
have been annoyed that he was emailed service questionnaires, I dont think this warrants 
much in the way of compensation as these can easily be ignored.
With regards to fund value reduction, Prudential has explained how the fund is priced and 
why the reduction occurred. But ultimately as with most investments, the price can go up or 
down and Mr J was aware of this risk. Prudential also explained that its website platform for 
accessing plans online, is not available for Mr Js particular product. But that it was looking 
into whether this could be added in future and it accepted it should be able to provide this to 
customers.
Having considered what Prudential was at fault for and the inconvenience caused to Mr J, I 
think the offer of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Whilst making the phone 
call earlier, wouldnt have made any difference to Mr Js objective, it must have been 
frustrating not to receive what was promised. And the statement issue will have added to his 
frustration with Prudential. But I dont think this warrants a payment in excess of £200, So I 
dont think Prudential needs to do anymore to put things right.
I appreciate that Mr J will be disappointed with my decision but as Ive explained above, Mr J 
started the process too late and this is the reason why he was unable to have the payment 
made in the 19/20 tax year. I understand the reasons why Mr J chose not to start the 
process earlier but I cant hold Prudential responsible for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman