DRN-2914449
The complaint
Mr H complains about Amtrust Europe Limited and their decision to cancel his Home 
Services insurance policy after they deemed his fuse box unsuitable to be insured under 
their Electrical Wiring cover.
What happened
Mr H held a Home Services insurance policy which was underwritten by Amtrust since 2016.
In October 2020, Mr H attempted to claim on the Electrical Wiring cover element of the 
policy, as the power to his property was shutting off randomly before returning after 
approximately ten minutes. Amtrust agreed to send an engineer to the property to 
investigate the issue.
The engineer attended on 21 October and inspected the fuse box. And having done so, the 
engineer deemed the fuse box unsafe to work on. So, no repair was completed and the 
engineers notes were referred back to Amtrust. Following this, Amtrust decided the fuse box 
wasnt suitable for the insurance policy Mr H held, so they cancelled the policy and refunded 
Mr H the insurance premiums hed already paid.
But Mr H was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. Mr H didnt think it was fair for 
Amtrust to cancel the policy without repairing the fuse box. He explained the yellow tape 
shown on the fuse box in the photos was added by an Amtrust engineer who had attended in 
2018 to fix another issue. And he said that engineer hadnt said anything about the fuse box 
not being suitable to be insured. So, he wanted Amtrust to repair the fuse box under the 
terms of the policy he held.
Amtrust didnt agree. They referred to the terms and conditions of the policy, which 
explained they had the power to cancel the policy if they found appliances and wiring such 
as the fuse box, wasnt in a suitable condition to be insured. So, they thought theyd acted 
fairly when relying on the testimony of the engineer who attended in October 2020 to cancel 
the policy and refund Mr Hs premiums. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained how we 
consider the evidence we receive, and the importance we place on expert opinion. In this 
case, she thought it was likely the fuse box was unsuitable for the policy, as this was the 
decision the attending engineer made. So, she thought Amtrust were fair to cancel the policy 
and refund Mr Hs premiums.
And she considered Mr Hs comments about previous attendances to fix other issues, where 
the condition of the fuse box wasnt mentioned. She explained she was unable to know for 
sure what was discussed and who placed the yellow tape on the fuse box. But as the tape or 
condition of the fuse box wasnt mentioned in any of the previous call out notes, she thought 
it was unlikely to have been an Amtrust engineer. And even if it was, she thought Mr H had 
received the benefit of the policy even if Amtrust had cancelled it sooner. So, she didnt think 
she could ask Amtrust to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his view that an Amtrust engineer had placed the yellow 
tape on the fuse box in 2018. And he remained unhappy that Amtrust hadnt provided what 
he felt was a valid reason as to why the fuse box was now unsuitable to be insured, but work 
was completed in 2018. He also mentioned the engineer who attended in October 2020, and 
suggested he deemed the fuse box unsuitable as he was in a rush that day. Because of the 
above, Mr H maintained his view that Amtrust acted unfairly and should complete the repairs 
to the fuse box or compensate him for the inconvenience hes been caused. As Mr H didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr H. Ive dont doubt Mr H 
assumed the policy he was paying for would cover him in the event his property developed 
an issue with the electrical wiring. So, when he contacted Amtrust after discovering an issue 
with his fuse box, I recognise Mr H assumed the issue would be repaired. So, when an 
engineer attended and didnt repair the issue, and Amtrust then proceeded to cancel the 
policy with the issue still present, I can understand why Mr H would feel like hes been 
unfairly treated.
But for me to say Amtrust have done something wrong when cancelling the policy, Id need 
to be satisfied of one of two things. Either, that Amtrust acted outside of the policy terms and 
conditions when deciding to cancel the policy. Or, if they were acting within the terms and 
conditions, that it was unfair of them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held with Amtrust. And these state If 
we identify at the Initial Inspection or any subsequent inspection that your System is not 
suitable for our SSE Electrical Wiring Cover, we will cancel this Agreement.
When an Amtrust engineer attended Mr Hs property in October 2020, they believed the fuse 
box was in a condition that meant they felt unable to complete the work necessary to repair 
it. But I understand Mr H disputes this. Im aware Mr H has commented on the age of the 
engineer and that fact he was in a rush on that day. Ive seen no evidence to show either of 
these things impacted the decision the engineer reached and as such, I wont be considering 
them any further.
Ive seen pictures Mr H has provided, which show electrical tape applied to the fuse box. 
And Ive seen the report provided by the attending engineer stating it looked as thought the 
tape had been applied to fix the fuse box. Im not an expert in fuse boxs or their condition, 
so Im unable to say whether the tape fitted meant the fuse box was unsuitable for repair. In 
this situation, the expert is the Amtrust engineer. And this was the decision they made. 
Although Mr Hs disputes this, I dont think Amtrust have acted unfairly by relying on the 
opinion of the engineer they sent to the property.And as this engineer stated the fuse box was unsuitable for repair and therefore cover, I 
think Amtrust have acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when deciding to 
cancel it, providing Mr H with a refund of the premiums he paid. 
But Ive also thought about whether it was fair for Amtrust to rely on the terms and conditions 
of the policy, considering the situation Mr H found himself in.
Mr H has stated an Amtrust engineer who attended in 2018 was the one who fitted the 
yellow tape to the fuse box. And that this engineer was able to fix the electrical issue he had 
at the time and made no reference to the condition of the box. So, he doesnt think its fair for 
Amtrust to cancel the policy without repairing it, when he believed an Amtrust engineer was 
responsible for the condition its now in. 
Im unable to say for certain who fitted the tape to the fuse box. So, in this situation, Ive had 
to think about what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I have 
available. And Ive seen the engineers report from 2018, which makes no reference to an 
issue with the fuse box or any tape that had been used to repair it. I wouldve expected this 
to have been included if the engineer had done this work. So, although I have considered Mr 
Hs testimony, I dont think I have enough evidence for me to say an Amtrust engineer 
definitely added the tape to the fuse box.
But even so, I dont think this changes the decision Ive reached. Whether an engineer 
added the tape to the fuse box or not, Mr Hs policy remained in place. And Ive seen he was 
able to utilise this policy and make a claim on it after that attendance. Had the engineer 
added the tape, and declared this, I think its likely Amtrust wouldve cancelled the policy at 
that point and Mr Hs cover wouldve ended. Instead, Mr Hs cover continued and he was 
able to make use of this for further repairs. 
I do appreciate Mr Hs point that, as Amtrust have completed further repairs after this tape 
was added, its unfair for them now to cancel the policy without repairing the fuse box. But I 
dont agree. From what Ive seen, I think its likely Mr H has had further repair work 
completed and received the benefit of this, when its likely the policy shouldve been 
cancelled beforehand. And it wouldnt be fair for me to say Amtrust should complete further 
work under the policy, because Mr H had already made claims that wouldnt have been 
covered if the issue with the fuse box had been identified earlier. Essentially, Id be asking 
Amtrust to knowingly cover even greater additional costs to repair an issue that isnt covered 
under the policy Mr H held. And thats not something Im able to do.
Ive also looked into Mr Hs comments about Amtrust failing to explain why the fuse box 
wasnt suitable to be insured. But Ive seen Amtrusts case note system, which details the 
conversations held with Mr H by phone and e-mail. And within these, I think Amtrust made it 
clear to Mr H that the fuse box was not suitable to be insured as it wasnt up to the current 
standard theyd expect. I think this was a fair and reasonable explanation as it made clear to 
Mr H that the fuse box wasnt in the correct condition to be insured. I wouldnt expect 
Amtrust to provide an in-depth technical explanation of why, as Mr H was made reasonably 
aware the fuse box needed to be repaired/upgraded to be suitable for that policy.
So, while I understand Mr Hs disappointment that his fuse box wasnt repaired, I dont think 
Amtrust have done anything wrong. Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything 
more on this occasion. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman