DRN-3758609
The complaint
Mr K, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly having failed to conduct thorough, appropriate, 
and reasonable checks.
What happened
In November 2018 Everyday Lending approved Mr K for one loan for £5,000 repayable over 
30 months at a monthly cost of £372.78 (£90.65 weekly). The total to repay was £10,883.40 
including the interest and fees. Mr K said that the loan was to purchase a car and to 
consolidate two other credit accounts  a credit card and a mail order account.
Mr K missed payments from as early as December 2018 and intermittently after that. By 
July 2019 Mr K was in arrears. Mr Ks representative has told us that the account is in 
default and some of Everyday Lendings records show that may have occurred around 
May 2021. Everyday Lending has told us that by 12 July 2022, Mr K had repaid £8,415.29.
After Mr K had complained, Everyday Lending issued its final response letter on 
12 July 2022 in which it gave reasons why it had concluded that it had lent responsibly.
Mr K referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators looked at it. She did not think that Everyday Lending needed to do anything to 
put things right for Mr K.
Mr Ks representative requested an ombudsman review but sent no further information in 
support of his claim. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked for further details 
surrounding Mr Ks financial circumstances at the time the loan was approved and asked 
about certain transactions on the bank account statements we have seen. But no response 
was received and so I proceeded to issue a provisional decision on 14 December 2022 
using the information I had on file.
That provisional decision is set out on the next pages and is in smaller type to differentiate it. 
The reply date was today  29 December 2022  and so far Everyday Lending has 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision on 15 December 2022, but nothing further 
has been received from it. And Mr K has not responded at all.  
This complaint has been ongoing with Everyday Lending since May 2022 and so it seems to 
be in the interests of all parties for the resolution to be finalised.
My provisional decision dated 14 December 2022 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr K would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough: 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Everyday Lending has told us that Mr K worked full time earning £2,039.70 which was the
average amount taken over four salary credits to his bank account (£450 weekly) which were
seen by Everyday Lending. Mr K received child benefit (£20.70), he lived at home with his
parents and he had a partner. He paid no rent or board to his parents.
Everyday Lending explained that it used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate
the living expenses and applied an additional margin to accommodate any other costs which
may arise. It has told us that it used a figure of £1,467.75 a month and that was the figure
before any debt consolidation. It calculated Mr K had a monthly disposable income of
£209.17 after taking into account the Everyday Loans monthly repayments.
Everyday Lending knew that although Mr K had no rent or board to pay, it had calculated
that Mr Ks repayments on credit agreements came to just under £913 each month, and his
living expenses were £555 (total just under £1,468).
The £5,000 was paid to Mr K directly  theres no evidence of it paying down the two
accounts Mr K wished to consolidate directly. So, it was relying on Mr K to do that. But evenwith that element, meaning no accounting for the cash flow saving with any debt
consolidation, still Everyday Lending calculated that Mr K would have had around £209 left
over after paying its own new loan at £362.78 each month.
However, from my own calculations using the debt table from Everyday Lending, Mr Ks total
outstanding debt £10,699, of which £415 related to a bank account. Mr Ks total loan
repayments listed in that debt table was £492 and his total credit card balance was £2,274 so 3%
(minimum repayment amount) would have been around £69. These add up to £561.
In addition, Mr K appears regularly to have been paying towards LeasePlan at £352.52 a
month. Ive asked Mr K about this but he was not forthcoming with any information.
These credit commitments plus Everyday Lendings new loan repayments of 30 x £362.78
then the total paying out each month was around £1,275 which translates to be about 62%
of his average net wage. I consider this too high to be sustainable for Mr K especially as the
Everyday Lending loans was scheduled to be repaid over 30 months.
In addition to these figures, Mr K appears to have taken a business loan in November 2018
which was costing him £378.40 a month. Again, I have asked him about this but no
information was forwarded to me.
In the circumstances, I consider that with Mr Ks financial situation this £5,000 loan from
Everyday Lending would have been too much for him to be able to repay sustainably.
But there was an additional factor which I think that Everyday Lending ought to have
investigated as part of the creditworthiness assessment for Mr K before approving the loan.
I can see that it did ask Mr K about this - his partners payments on a £30,000 hire purchase
(HP) agreement which had commenced 5 November 2018. These were for £489.77 and the
payment was set up to be debited from Mr Ks account.
I asked Mr K to clarify whether the bank account statements he had given to Everyday
Lending at the time were his sole account or a joint account with his partner which may have
explained why that payment had been set up on his bank account. But nothing was
forthcoming on that query from Mr K. And reviewing the bank statements I have I cannot see
that his partner has refunded Mr K in any way. So, proceeding on the basis that this was
another regular repayment commitment Mr K had to bear then it was another reason for
Everyday Lending to have realised that Mr K was not going to be able to afford this loan.
For several reasons, I plan to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reconsidered the complaint and I am aware Ive had nothing new from either party 
since issuing the provisional decision. 
The total monthly credit commitment outgoings Mr K was committed to, using the Everyday 
Lending debt table, came to £561. That was 27% of Mr Ks monthly income of £2,039. But 
the additional factors clearly visible from the bank statements Everyday Lending had 
reviewed before lending demonstrated two or three other large repayments which is why 
I was, and remain persuaded, that Mr K was overreaching himself with this Everyday 
Lending loan, and it ought to have known that. Those additional commitments, over and 
above the £561 each month from Everyday Lendings debt table list, were:
othe loan which appears to have been taken with a company which offers 
business loans, costing Mr K £378.40 each monthothe LeasePlan at £352.52 each month
ohis partners HP payments of £489.77 each month which may have been 
refunded to him but Ive seen no evidence of that. 
My view is that even if one of these was factored into Mr Ks existing commitments together 
with the new Everyday Lending loan commitment of £372.78 each month, still the overall 
credit commitment would have been too much for him to repay sustainably over 30 months.
And Everyday Lending had shown us that it had calculated that Mr Ks repayments on credit 
agreements came to just under £913 each month so that suggests to me that it had added in 
some of these other monthly repayments. And even on that figure - £913 a month  it 
translates to be almost 45% of his monthly pay, which is a high proportion to be committed 
to credit. 
I uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Putting things right
If Everyday Lending has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Everyday Lending should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards
interest, fees and charges on the loan not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Everyday Lending should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the
loan and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been repayments of the
principal. If this results in Mr K having made overpayments then it should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Everyday Lending
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step C.
C) Everyday Lending should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file
in relation to the but that only needs to be done once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. It 
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited does as I have outlined 
above in the putting things right part of the decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman