DRN-2392160
The complaint
Miss K complains that despite having a personal pension plan with The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) she cannot take out an annuity with it. 
Miss K also complains about the information Prudential provided to her about her pension 
options. She says she feels the information was misleading.
What happened
I understand that Miss K had two pension plans with Prudential. She used one of the plans 
to buy an annuity with Prudential several years ago. In 2019 Prudential wrote to Miss K 
about her remaining pension plan and set out the options available to her.
In a letter dated August 2019, under the heading You can choose what to do with-your 
retirement benefits it said:
Retirement is changing. More of us are working later on in life. So pensions are changing 
too. Changes to the regulations mean you've now got several options when it comes to 
taking your benefits. Currently, once you're 55, you can normally:
-Take it all as cash, with 25% tax-free and the rest added to any other income for the 
year and taxed
- Take money out of your pension pot in stages. Each time, 25% is tax-free and the 
rest is added to any other income for the year and taxed
- Take up to 25% as a tax-free lump sum and take the rest as taxable regular 
payments or one-off amounts. To do this, you need to transfer to a Drawdown plan.
- Take up to 25% as a tax-free lump sum and use the rest to buy an annuity
- Take a combination of all these options.
Miss K understood this letter to mean that she would be able to take up to 25% as a tax-free 
lump sum and use the rest to buy an annuity with Prudential.
But when Miss K contacted Prudential to arrange an annuity, she was told it no longer 
offered annuities. It put Miss K in touch with an independent financial adviser to discuss the 
options available and to help her to arrange an annuity. It said the adviser would be able to 
access a range of annuity providers and it said Miss K would not be charged a fee or have a 
reduced policy value if she accessed an annuity product with the provider recommended by 
the adviser.
Miss K wasnt satisfied with Prudentials response and referred the matter to this service. 
She explained that she wanted to take out an annuity with Prudential and she felt the 
information it sent setting out her options was misleading.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld. 
She said, in summary, that Prudential was entitled to withdraw from the annuity market. She 
also said she didnt think the information Prudential had provided to Miss K was misleading. 
She noted that Miss K said she felt the wording Prudential had used was in effect a contract 
and that it should be required to provide her with an annuity. Our investigator said she didnt 
agree. She said the information Prudential had sent Miss K about the options available were 
generic options and she didnt think Prudential was committed to providing any of the 
products or services it had outlined.
Miss K didnt accept our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be determined by 
an ombudsman. Miss K said she felt Prudential shouldnt have given generic information. 
She said that when she read the information Prudential had sent:
I looked at it as authentic, trustworthy material  I already had one annuity with the 
Prudential. So, I thought it was alright for me to have another one. There was no proper 
indication in (the) correspondence from the Prudential to inform me that they had actually 
closed to new annuities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Miss Ks position and I have very carefully considered the points she 
has made. 
It is clear that Miss K carefully read the information she received from Prudential and, as an 
existing annuity holder with Prudential, expected to be able to take out another annuity with 
it. I appreciate that Miss K is very frustrated that she has been unable to do so.
However, as our investigator explained, Prudential is entitled to withdraw products from its 
product range. Prudential has said it chose to withdraw from the annuity market as it 
experienced a significant drop in the number of customers taking out annuities with it after 
changes were introduced in 2014/5 that allowed consumers more freedom in the way they 
can take their pension benefits. I appreciate that Miss K wanted to take out another annuity 
with Prudential, but I cant reasonably say that it did anything wrong when it chose to stop 
offering annuity products.
I have also carefully considered all the comments Miss K has made relating to information 
she received from Prudential. In particular, I have reviewed the letters it sent Miss K and 
considered whether they are misleading. Having done so I dont think the letters were 
misleading or indicated that Miss K would be able to take out an annuity with Prudential.
As Miss K had an existing annuity with Prudential, I can see why she thought she would be 
able to take out another annuity with it. But I havent seen anything in the documentation 
sent to Miss K that said, or suggested that this was an option. So I cant agree that the 
information was misleading or committed Prudential to offering Miss K an annuity. But I do 
understand that, as an existing annuity customer, Miss K expected to be able to take out 
another annuity with Prudential.
Miss K says she has discussed taking out an annuity with another provider using the 
financial adviser Prudential put her in touch with. Miss K says she is concerned that taking 
out an annuity with another provider  will be a complex and lengthy process. I never 
wanted to go through another provider.I appreciate Miss Ks concern and I would encourage her to engage with her financial 
adviser to address any questions she has about taking her pension benefits. The adviser is 
trained and qualified to answer Miss Ks questions and to ensure that Miss K understands 
the options available. 
I do understand that thinking about what to do with this pension pot might seem daunting, 
but as Prudential set out in its correspondence with Miss K:
When you're deciding what you want to do with your pension pot, you should consider all the 
options and their tax implications. Pension providers offer different products with different 
features and options, including the product terms, rates, funds or charges that might be 
appropriate for your individual needs and circumstances.
That's why it's important you shop around. So, whatever you decide to do - whether that's an 
annuity, drawdown or something else, it's the right decision for you.
For annuities, its important to shop around so that you can get the highest possible income. 
Both health and lifestyle can increase the amount of income you or your partner (if joint life) 
could get. This is known as an enhanced annuity. Prudential doesn't offer enhanced 
annuities but you might qualify for an enhanced annuity with another provider and get a 
higher income. It's important for you to know that different providers might use different 
criteria to assess your health and lifestyle conditions which could give a higher income. 
That's why its very important that you shop around.
I do understand that this is not the decision Miss K was hoping for. But having very carefully 
considered this matter I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong or that the 
information it sent to Miss K about taking her pension benefits was misleading.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman