DRN-4202388
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E became unwell early into his cruise trip and unfortunately had to disembark the ship 
and seek medical assistance. He said he didnt receive any contact from UKI to assist him 
whilst he was abroad. 
When he returned home, Mr E submitted a claim for the costs associated with the 
curtailment of his trip and his medical emergency. But he was also unhappy with the 
progression of his claim. So he made a complaint. 
UKI acknowledged problems in the way they had handled the claim once it was submitted, 
so they awarded £250 to acknowledge these errors. Mr E remained unhappy so he referred 
the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said UKI had made reasonable 
attempts to contact Mr E whilst he was abroad, and the offer of compensation was fair to 
recognise UKIs poor service during the claim once he had returned home. She also 
explained she was unable to comment on Mr Es additional points about being confined to 
his cabin as they would form a separate complaint.  
Mr E disagreed. He didnt think he had received UKIs emails but, in any event, he didnt 
think it was a reasonable way to try and contact him in the circumstances. He remained 
unhappy he didnt receive the assistance and support he required from UKI whilst abroad. 
So the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The relevant rules and industry guidelines say UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. This means UKI must 
progress claims in a timely manner and not cause any unnecessary or avoidable delays.
UKIs actions whilst Mr E was abroad 
I appreciate Mr E has said he needed UKI supports because he was travelling alone and 
became unwell. I do understand that it wouldve been a very upsetting and stressful time for 
him. 
Ive reviewed the evidence UKI have provided of their attempts to contact Mr E. And 
although I appreciate he expected them to reach him on the hotel phone, I dont think their 
attempts to email and call his mobile were unreasonable. 
The notes from the medical assistance show a call to Mr Es mobile at 15:09 on 3 
November. Its recorded as no answer. The notes also show their follow up email to Mr E at 
15.13 pm explaining they had been trying to reach him and provided information about how 
he could contact UKI. The notes also have an entry to show the 15:18 call from UKI to the 
hospital who confirmed Mr E had paid the medical costs. 
These notes are consistent with the timeline of events, and Ive seen a copy of the email 
referred to, so Im persuaded this evidence can be relied upon. 
Its unfortunate Mr E didnt read the email or receive UKIs attempted call. But I think the 
insurer acted reasonably in the circumstances. When they were unable to contact Mr E 
directly over email and mobile phone, they made a further attempt to check on him by 
contacting the other parties involved in his care. They called the hospital, the port and the 
travel firm, so Im satisfied they were making reasonable attempts to get hold of their 
customer and check if he needed their assistance. 
The hospital told UKI Mr E had been discharged and had paid for his treatment. The travel 
company at the port told UKI he had been discharged and was flying home the following 
day. These organisations led UKI to believe Mr E was travelling home without a problem. So 
I dont think they acted unfairly in accepting this.  Based on what theyd been told by the 
partied that had seen Mr E, UKI werent actually aware he was in need of further assistance. 
Although I appreciate he was unwell, Mr E could have tried to contact UKI himself if he was 
distressed that he hadnt heard from them and required assistance. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied UKI met their obligations under the policy to the 
best of their ability and made reasonable attempts to get hold of Mr E and check on him. 
I note Mr E has queried if there was an error in his email address but from the evidence 
provided, I think UKI have reasonably shown this was sent to the correct address. But in any 
event, Mr E has said he wasnt in a position to have checked his email, so I dont think an 
error in his email address wouldve made a difference here.  
The claims handling once the claim was submitted 
Its not in dispute that once Mr E returned home and submitted his claim, there were issues 
with the progression of it and how it was handled.  There was a delay in UKI contacting him 
initially, confusion about how the claim would be taken forward and they failed to send 
documentation and call him back as promised. All of which lead to Mr E having to chase 
UKI. 
Mr E was already going through a difficult time, and I think UKIs poor claims handling 
exacerbated this. He had to contact them to chase responses which caused him 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So I think UKIs compensation payment of £250 is 
reasonable to recognise the impact of this poor service. 
For clarity, Mr E is correct that the compensation awarded is solely for the issues with the 
handling of his claim once he had returned home. For the reasons already set out above, I 
dont think UKI acted unfairly whilst Mr E was abroad.
Finally, Mr E has also raised concerns that he was confined to his cabin whilst on the cruise, 
and hes asked UKI to consider this as part of his curtailment claim.  Our investigator has already explained this doesnt form part of this complaint and has been considered by UKI 
separately.  So I wont be commenting any further on this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman