DRN-3014183
The complaint
  Miss M complains that the second-hand car she acquired, using finance from MotoNovo 
Limited (MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. She asks to reject 
the vehicle.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
On 4 August 2020, Miss M entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo to 
purchase a second-hand car. The car was just over 5 years old and had travelled 70,000 
miles. The cash price of the car was £8,995.
Miss M reported an issue within 24 hours of acquiring the car. The car was dead and 
wouldnt start. Miss M explained the dealership that sold the car replaced the battery,
But she continued to experience problems and the battery failed on six further occasions. 
The dealership later fitted the car with a genuine Ford battery. But Miss M says she 
continued to have intermittent problems with the car failing to start and appearing dead.
On 26 October 2020, Miss M complained to MotoNovo as she didnt believe the car was of
satisfactory quality. On 30 October 2020, MotoNovo requested an independent inspection 
from Automotive Consulting Engineers Ltd (ACE). It inspected the car on 5 November 
2020, ACE concluded in its report that it couldnt find any visible signs of leaks, or any faults 
in the diagnostic log and confirmed the battery thats fitted is correct for the car.
In its final response dated 9 November 2020, MotoNovo upheld Miss Ms complaint. It 
apologised for the inconvenience the matter had caused but felt the repair had been 
successful and did not anticipate there would be any further issues. It offered £175 
compensation.
On 19 January Miss M experienced the same issues again and so she contacted MotoNovo 
again. It said it required further evidence of the failing before it would re-open her complaint 
and so Miss M sent videos of the car failing to start. MotoNovo acknowledged the videos but 
said it required an independent diagnostic report. Miss M was not in a financial position to 
acquire such a report and so she referred the matter to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Miss M. He concluded that although he agreed the car 
was not of satisfactory quality when Miss M purchased it, he felt the second repair was 
successful and an independent report has confirmed the battery was the correct one for the 
car and was charging on use. As such he didnt feel he could ask MotoNovo to do anything 
further.
Miss M disagreed. She says the car has continued to fail intermittently since January and 
she is left with a car that wont start and needs to be jump started. This has meant her 
missing important medical appointments and generally impacting her daily working life 
significantly. She feels the fault was present at the point of sale and after two opportunities at 
repair continues to be present. She wants to reject the car and asked for an ombudsman 
review.
In my provisional findings I explained Id reached a different view to that of our investigator.
I explained the hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement  so this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules 
and protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods (i.e. the car) under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality. The CRA sets out some of the responsibilities 
of a supplier in relation to the quality of goods it supplies. The CRA is therefore also relevant 
law in this complaint. 
The CRA says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, 
it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would 
take into account might include things like the age of the car when supplied and when the 
issue that the consumer complains about first arose. 
In this case, the car was just over 5 years old and had travelled around 70,000 miles and so 
I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might
have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair
and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
That said, theres no dispute here between the parties that the fault arose within 24 hours of 
Miss M acquiring the car. In its final response MotoNovo said:
Having considered the information that is available I am upholding your complaint. I have 
based my decision on the above facts, and that as your finance provider we are liable for 
any faults that are present or developing at the point of sale.
It is not fair or reasonable to expect the vehicle to require a battery replacement shortly after 
sale, let alone two. Whilst I acknowledge the selling dealership replaced the battery a 
second time as a precaution, and not due to the experiencing a fault with the vehicle, in 
doing so they have accepted liability.
MotoNovo said the repair was successful. But I said I disagree. The repair was carried out in 
November 2020, Miss M reported the same issue again in January 2021, this was also 
within six months of acquiring the vehicle. She has also provided additional video footage to 
this service of the same issue arising again in March and April 2021. Miss M maintains the 
problem occurs intermittently but often when the vehicle has been stood for 12/24 hours, 
such as overnight.
I said I accepted that the ACE report couldnt find at fault at the point it carried out the 
testing, shortly after the second battery was fitted but that doesnt mean the fault isnt there, 
albeit intermittently.
I explained the relevant legislation says that if a fault arises in the first 6 months, its for the 
business to show that the fault wasnt present when the car was supplied. After 6 months its 
up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The fault was reported 
within a week and the car was back in the dealership for repair within the same week. The 
fault has also persisted, and the car has been back and forth several times since. After the final repair, Miss M has provided further video evidence of the same issues she has been 
experiencing since she acquired the car. 
So, having taken account of relevant law I said, in my view the relevant law would have 
permitted Miss M to reject the car in these circumstances. That legislation does allow for 
rejection of faulty goods. Further, even if I am mistaken in law, I said I think it is fair and 
reasonable that Miss M is allowed to reject the car in the circumstances. This is because, I 
have found the car was most likely faulty when supplied. I also think given the further 
problems Miss M has experienced since the two repairs that have been carried out, a further 
chance to repair would be unfair.
Miss M was clear from the start she liked the car and wanted to keep it, until the problems 
became unresolved. This has left her with car that works sometimes and not others. She has 
explained the impact that has had on her daily life and she now has a car she doesnt trust in 
and as a result is not confident to use. So, whilst, the car is second hand and one would not 
expect it to be on par with a brand-new car, it must still be fit for purpose.
I appreciate MotoNovo has said it wanted a further independent report. Miss M has made it 
clear she is not in a position to pay for an independent report and I said Im not persuaded 
this is necessary.
Miss M has consistently reported the same issues with the car since she acquired it. 
MotoNovo accepted there must have been a fault present at the point of sale, and the two 
attempts to repair what it thinks may be the issue, have failed. For all these reasons I said I 
thought Miss M should be allowed to reject the car.
In my provisional decision I said that I intended to direct MotoNovo Limited to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further owed. 
2. Take back the car at no cost to Miss M. 
3. Update Miss Ms credit file showing the agreement was settled with nothing further owed. 
4. Refund the deposit Miss M paid and any fees she paid to enter into the agreement. 
5. Refund any fee Miss M had to pay for cancelling his car insurance for this car. 
6. Refund all payments Miss M has made towards the hire purchase agreement from August 
2020 until the current date.
7. Pay Miss M £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Both Miss M and MotoNovo responded to my provisional decision.
Miss M accepted my findings but asked that additional costs she has paid for the car be 
considered in terms of redress. She provided an invoice from a garage and confirmation of 
the costs of taxing the vehicle.
MotoNovo disagreed with my provisional findings. It said it didnt consider there to be 
sufficient evidence for the view I had provisionally reached, and it thinks the fairest way 
forward is another independent report, which it now says it will pay for.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I thank both parties for their responses. I have carefully considered them and reviewed the 
whole file again in light of them.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I havent been provided with any new submissions from either party.
Im sorry that MotoNovo feels there is insufficient evidence upon which to base my decision. 
As Im sure its aware this service is an alternative to the courts. Im required to reach a 
decision on a balance of probabilities, taking into account the wider circumstances. If I find a 
business hasnt acted fairly or reasonably then I would look to ask it to put matters right.
MotoNovo has already had the opportunity to carry out a further inspection. It didnt agree to 
pay before, and Miss M made it clear she didnt have the financial means to carry out 
another inspection. 
I havent changed my view that I dont think a further inspection is necessary in this case. 
Miss Ms testimony has been consistent with the same issue she reported within the first 
week of acquiring the car. The same issues that led MotoNovo to uphold the complaint on 
the basis it was reasonable to expect to have to fit two batteries within such a short time. But 
the same issues have persisted, albeit intermittently.
So, given that MotoNovo has already had two opportunities to repair the car, Im not going to 
allow a third, as I dont agree that is fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Miss Ms request for the additional costs. I have to balance this with the 
fact that she has had some use of the car as the fault persist intermittently. For these 
reasons she would have had to tax the car and so Im not going to refund this cost.
Ive looked at the invoice from the garage and the itemisation is essentially for a general 
service. Again, because there has been some use of the car, Im not in agreement that its 
fair and reasonable for these costs to be refunded either.
As there has been no new information brought for my consideration in respect of whether the 
car is of satisfactory quality, it follows I remain of the view it is not and Im upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision  For the reasons I have given I direct MotoNovo Limited to:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further owed. 
2. Take back the car at no cost to Miss M. 
3. Update Miss Ms credit file showing the agreement was settled with nothing further owed. 
4. Refund the deposit Miss M paid and any fees she paid to enter into the agreement. 
5. Refund any fee Miss M had to pay for cancelling his car insurance for this car. 
6. Refund all payments Miss M has made towards the hire purchase agreement from August 
2020 until the current date.
7. Pay Miss M £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman