DRN-4390700
Complaint
Miss N has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan was unaffordable and therefore shouldnt have been provided to her in the first 
place.
Background
L2G provided Miss N with a loan for £800 in June 2022. This loan had an APR of 769.9% 
and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £164.44. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ns complaint and he thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss N unfairly. So he didnt think that Miss Ns complaint should 
be upheld. Miss N disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 25 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 25 September 2023 - setting out why I intended to 
uphold Miss Ns complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
decide Miss Ns complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss N could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Having considered the information provided, I noted that the credit check L2G carried out 
showed Miss N had had previous difficulties with credit  in the form of a number of defaults. 
The credit check also showed that Miss N had balances close to the credit limit on more than 
one of her revolving credit accounts. 
Furthermore, I also thought that the monthly payment was taking up a significant chunk of 
the disposable income L2G had arrived at for Miss N too. And this was without actually 
verifying what Miss N had said about her income and expenditure. I did appreciate that there 
might have been a degree of cross checking using some online tools but, in my view, this 
was not the same as verification.
I accepted that it was possible that Miss Ns credit file reflected her choices rather than any 
financial difficulties. But I also set out that my experience of these types of cases suggested 
this was unlikely. In any event, I was satisfied that further checks would more like than not 
have shown that Miss N would not have been able to repay this loan without experiencing 
undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
This left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss N. And as L2G provided 
Miss N with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
As Miss N ended up paying (and was still being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges 
on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with, I concluded by saying it was my intention 
to issue a final decision finding that Miss N lost out because of what L2G did wrong and that 
it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss N didnt provide anything further to me to consider.
L2G confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and also said that it didnt have 
anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Ns complaint in my provisional 
decision of 25 September 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the 
parties to consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im still upholding Miss Ns complaint and I 
remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss N
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for L2G to put things right for Miss N by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss N made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £800 originally lent. If Miss N has 
already repaid more than £800 then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. 
And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss N;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss N to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss Ns credit 
file. HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-party 
debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account and 
its the case that Miss N is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 25 September 2023, 
Im upholding Miss Ns complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman