DRN-2731964
The complaint
Mr O is upset about the date Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) applied 
a default to his account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the problems Mr O has experienced but I dont think I think Shop 
Directs current offer to set the default date to February 2019 is unreasonable. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see that Mr O initially complained about the application of the default to his account. 
The investigator explained that as that complaint was referred to this service too late we 
were not allowed to consider it. I agree.
But I am considering Mr Os complaint about the timing of the default that Shop Direct have 
reported to his credit file.
Shop Direct initially recorded the default in July 2019 but, whilst weve been reviewing Mr 
Os complaint, theyve now agreed to change that to February 2019. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
I cant see that Mr O was three months behind in his agreed payments until April 2019. But 
the business has now explained that theyd be happy to move the date to February 2019 as 
they think they could have contacted Mr O whilst the account was frozen in late 2018 and, if 
they had, it would have set the clock ticking a little earlier on the date of default. 
Whilst I still think the evidence suggests an April 2019 default would have been merited I 
understand Shop Directs more recent reasoning about a February 2019 default date. That 
revised date would benefit Mr O as the default will clear his credit file a little earlier. So, I 
think Shop Directs current offer is reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Shop Direct should amend the date of the default to February 2019. Our investigator asked 
which date Shop Direct would suggest was appropriate in that month, but they didnt reply. 
So, for simplicity and clarity, Im asking Shop Direct to apply the default from the first day of 
that month.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Shop Direct Finance 
Limited to change the date of default on Mr Os account to 1 February 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman