DRN-4035555
The complaint
Mr Z has complained that Markerstudy took too long to repair his vehicle, which he uses as a
taxi, after he made a claim for damage to it under his Public and Private Hire insurance
policy.
What happened
The panoramic roof on Mr Zs vehicle was damaged on 15 December 2021. He contacted
Markerstudy and made a claim under his policy. Markerstudy referred the matter to one of
their approved repairers, who Ill refer to as A. They booked Mr Zs vehicle in for repair on 24
January 2022. Mr Z wasnt happy about this, as his vehicle wasnt safe to drive with the
damaged roof. He complained to Markerstudy. They checked with A, who told them they 
thought Mr Zs vehicle was still safe to drive and this is why theyd booked it in for so far in 
advance. It seems A then collected the vehicle and ordered the new roof that was needed to 
repair it from the manufacturer of the vehicle.
Mr Z then contacted Markerstudy about being provided with a replacement vehicle. 
Markerstudy spoke to A and were told that Mr Zs vehicle would be repaired by 4 January 
2022. So, Markerstudy told Mr Z this. Markerstudy contacted A again on 6 January 2022 and 
were then told the roof was on back order and theyd be chasing the supplier. Markerstudy 
called Mr Z and told him this and they let him know that under the terms of his policy he was 
only entitled to a replacement vehicle for seven days. Mr Z wasnt happy about the delay or 
the fact hed not have a replacement car, bearing in mind the taxi was his source of income. 
Markerstudy registered a complaint.
It seems from the claim notes provided by Markerstudy that the repair to Mr Zs vehicle was
only actually authorised by their engineer on 18 January 2022. But it seems the roof had 
actually arrived on 7 January 2022. And A did nothing until they transferred Mr Zs vehicle to 
a main dealer (M) on 19 January 2022. And M couldnt actually carry out the replacement 
because A hadnt ordered the correct additional items to enable the roof to be fitted. And  
as far as I can see  Mr Z had to pay his policy excess and was able to collect his vehicle 
from M on 4 February 2022. He then had to take it back to have the trim fitted on 21 
February to complete the job.
Mr Z provided what he said was proof of his loss of earnings to Markerstudy. They then
issued a final response letter on Mr Zs complaint. They accepted the service hed received
wasnt as good as it should have been and paid him £350 in compensation to cover any
trouble and upset he had experienced. They said theyd consider a further payment for loss
of income if Mr Z provided evidence of this.
Mr Z asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. She said
Markerstudys payment of £350 in compensation and, what she described as their offer to
cover Mr Zs loss of earnings, was fair to put things right. Mr Z then pointed out that hed not
heard anything from Markerstudy on his loss of earnings. The investigator checked with
Markerstudy and they said they were not willing to pay anything for loss of earnings, as they
thought the compensation theyd paid was enough.
Mr Z wasnt happy about this, so the investigator put his complaint forward for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2023, in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold it and award a further amount to
compensate Mr Z for being without his vehicle for much longer than should have been the
case.
It is hard to tell from Markerstudys claim notes exactly why A didnt seem to realise at the
outset that Mr Zs vehicle would need to go to a main dealer to have the new roof fitted. But,
I think they should have done. It was clearly a specialist job and they should have
appreciated this and arranged for the vehicle to go to M as soon as possible. M could then
have ordered the glass for the new roof and fitted it. Instead of this, A ordered the glass and
supplementary items, which appear to have arrived at their workshop on 7 January 2022.
But then the vehicle wasnt transferred to M until 19 January 2022. And M werent able to
complete the repair until 4 February 2022, which was partly because A had ordered the
wrong supplementary parts.
Its not clear why it took so long for M to complete the work. But it seems clear that if A had
transferred the vehicle to M at the outset on 17 December, the work would have been
completed much sooner. I cant be sure exactly how long it would have taken, but I think if A
got the glass on 7 January, M could have got it by this date. And  as theyd have had the
vehicle and ordered the right supplementary items, I think it could have been scheduled and
completed within a week at the most, ie by 14 January 2022. Whereas Mr Z didnt have his
vehicle back to use until 4 February 2022.
Mr Z had lost the replacement car Markerstudy had provided in late December, as far as I
can tell. So this means that due to poor handling by A, who Markerstudy are responsible for,
Mr Z had no vehicle to carry out his business as a taxi driver for three weeks longer than I
think should have been the case.
Ive asked Mr Z through our investigator to provide clear evidence of what he would have
earned in January 2022. In the equivalent period in 2021 the country was in Lockdown, so
this would not provide a suitable comparison for January 2022. Mr Z has provided some
information on what he earned in September, October and November 2021, but its not clear
to me from this what his expenses were. And it is very hard to understand the information
without clear accounts or a covering explanation alongside it.
However, I do think Mr Z lost some income in the three weeks he didnt have his car when
he should have done and I dont think the £350 Markerstudy have paid reflects this. I think
this is only adequate to cover the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of
the problems with the repair to his vehicle.
I cannot really establish what Mr Z actually lost due to the fact hes not provided a clear
explanation in support of the evidence hes provided. So, because we are an informal
dispute resolution service and I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, Ive decided to
award a further £500 simply for the inconvenience Mr Z experienced in not having his taxi for
three weeks longer than should have been the case due to the poor performance of
Markerstudys approved repairer. This is not meant to represent what he lost in income, as I
cant really establish this. It is simply meant to reflect the fact Mr Z lost the use of a vehiclethat was very important to his business for a period of three weeks when this shouldnt have
happened. And that this would have had an impact on his business.
I gave the parties until 28 March 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Markerstudy have responded to say they have no further comments or evidence to provide. 
Mr Z has come back to say that he does not agree with what I provisionally decided, 
because it does not cover what he lost as a result of the delay in replacing the roof on his 
vehicle. Hes mentioned he spent nearly £1,700 on the loan for his vehicle over a period of 
three months and lost more than the additional £500 I said Markerstudy should pay in 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Zs comments. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, it is very difficult 
to know from the evidence he has provided what he lost in income as a result of the delay in 
replacing the roof on his vehicle. He has referred to a period of three months. But I do not 
think this was the extent of the delay caused by A. I think this was actually only three weeks 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. I appreciate Mr Z had to continue paying 
the loan for his vehicle in the period he was waiting for it to be repaired. But, he would have 
had to pay this irrespective of whether the roof was replaced earlier or not. So, this is not  in 
my opinion  a financial loss that flows from the delay caused by A. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances, it remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Zs 
complaint is for Markerstudy to pay him a further £500 in compensation for the loss of use of 
his vehicle for a period of three weeks; which is the period I think he was without it due to the 
delay caused by A. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint about Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited and order them to pay him a further £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman