DRN-3644833
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt suggest an alternative method of 
payment when he made three faster payments. 
What happened
Mr W says he went into branch to make the following faster payments to a company Ill refer 
to as E:
Date Amount
30/03/21 £2,140
23/04/21 £2,140
28/04/21 £625
Total £4,905
In May 2021 Mr W visited a branch of Santander to complain that when he made the 
payments, he wasnt advised to use a method of payment that offered him some protection if 
anything went wrong, which is what had happened. The notes from the time show that Mr W 
said he received a service from E, but it wasnt to the standard he expected. Mr W was 
advised to raise the matter with E. Mr W later raised a complaint. Hed like Santander to 
refund the money he transferred to E and also says the matter has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. 
Santander hasnt refunded Mr W. It said it is under a duty to warn customers about scams 
but the decision about which payment method to use rested with Mr W and the company he 
was paying. 
Mr W was unhappy with Santanders response so brought a complaint to this service. The 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In summary, 
she said that if Santander recognises a scam risk when a payment is made it will provide 
advice about ways to avoid falling victim to a scam, which might include using an alternative 
method of payment. But this wasnt the case when the payment requests were made by Mr 
W and Santander wasnt obliged to advise Mr W to pay by a different method. Mr W also 
received the service he paid for so had a civil dispute with E and wasnt the victim of a scam. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and so his complaint has been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. He says Santander failed to advise him to use a payment method that 
offered him protection or to provide scam advice when he made the payments. And he only 
received a partial service in respect of the first two payments and none for payment three. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I cant reasonably conclude Santander has done anything 
wrong here and so Im not asking it to provide him with a refund. 
Whilst Mr W hasnt received the full service he expected from E, he has received a service. 
This means Mr W has a dispute with E because hes unhappy with the service provided but 
hes not the victim of a scam. To be satisfied Mr W has been scammed Id need to be 
persuaded E took payments from Mr W with no intention of ever providing the service he 
was expecting. This clearly isnt the case here and so Mr W has a civil dispute with E which 
he should take up directly with E.  
The payments Mr W made were authorised by him under the Payment Services 
Regulations. This means that the starting position is that Santander had an obligation to 
follow Mr Ws payment instructions, and Mr W is presumed liable for his loss. There are 
other factors Id take into account if I was satisfied Mr W was the victim of a scam, but as Ive 
explained above, this isnt the case here. 
Mr W believes Santander should have provided him with scam advice when he made the 
payments. Id only expect Santander to provide scam advice if it recognised a risk that a 
customer may be falling victim to a scam. This might be because the payment requests 
made were so unusual and out of character that Santander ought to have had concerns 
about them and taken additional steps before releasing the payments. I dont consider 
Santander should have had concerns that Mr W may be at risk of falling victim to a scam 
here though. The payments wouldnt have stood out to Santander as they were relatively low 
in value, were spread over a period of time and left Mr Ws account with funds.
I also think Santander acted reasonably in following Mr Ws instructions to make faster 
payments. In the absence of any concerns that Mr W might be at risk of falling victim to a 
scam Santander had no reason to advice Mr W to use an alternative payment method. The 
choice of payment method is a decision for a customer and the company being paid.  
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I cant reasonably conclude Santander has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman