DRN-1901324
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined a claim 
against his commercial vehicle insurance.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them at length 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. In short Mr Q was out 
delivering parcels in his van and stepped out of the vehicle to sort the parcels in the back, 
leaving the keys in the ignition. Mr Q then stepped to the side of the van to check where he 
was, and a thief was able to drive off with the van. Admiral declined the claim as the keys 
were left in the ignition and it said Mr Q had left the van unsecured.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld but Mr Q disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms of Mr Qs policy say that no cover is provided if the vehicle is stolen as the 
result of leaving the keys in the ignition of the vehicle.
This term is significant but was brought to Mr Qs attention in his policy summary, 
which stated: Poor security: We won't provide cover if you leave your vehicle 
unlocked or unsecured. This is printed prominently in the policy summary, so I think 
Mr Q ought reasonably to have known about the exclusion in the policy. And as Mr Q 
has said he usually takes the keys out of the ignition when exiting the vehicle, I think 
its likely he was aware of the exclusion.
I have considered how Mr Q described the event to Admiral and whether I believe the 
vehicle was left unattended and therefore unsecure.
Mr Q initially told Admiral that he hadnt walked away from the vehicle but later 
confirmed that he had walked away to check the name of a street. He said that he 
was no more than four metres away from the vehicle but confirmed that he wasnt 
looking at the vehicle. Mr Q has also said that he didnt hear the vehicle engine turn 
on, which leads me to believe he wasnt immediately next to the vehicle.
Mr Q changed the details slightly several times and having considered the different 
series of events, on balance I think its likely that Mr Q did leave his vehicle 
unattended  although likely only for a very brief time. And as Admiral clearly told 
Mr Q that he needed to ensure his vehicle was secure and Mr Q didnt do this, I cant 
say Admiral were wrong to decline the claim.
Mr Q has said that despite being next to the van, he would not have been able to 
prevent the theft without putting himself at risk  and I wouldnt expect him to do that. 
But based on what Mr Q told Admiral, on balance, I think its likely based on what 
Mr Q has said that he moved far enough away from the vehicle that it could be 
considered as being left unattended. And therefore, while I have every sympathy for 
Mr Q and the position hes found himself in, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly in 
declining his claim.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Qs frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman