DRN-1514881
 
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about the quality of a car they have been financing through an 
agreement with First Response Finance Ltd (First Response).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs H and Mr H acquired their car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and 
as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then First Response, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. 
The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Im not persuaded that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied as:
othe garage inspection report suggests the cause of the roof, suspension and 
roll bar failures was the accident Mrs H and Mr H had.
oMrs H and Mr H had confirmed the convertible rood was working prior to the 
accident and this supports the view that the failure was a result of the 
accident and not a pre-existing condition.
oMrs H and Mr H have suggested the springs were faulty when the car was 
supplied to them. But I dont think I have sufficient evidence to suggest that 
was the case. I would have expected such a fault to have been reported to 
the dealership but theres been no evidence supplied that that was the case. I 
also note that the dealership have suggested this damage, and the broken 
fog light, most probably occurred in the accident.
I think First Response have been reasonable when considering other damage that 
was noted in the dealerships inspection. Theyve agreed to pay for work to the rear 
brake pads, front and rear brake pipes, anti-roll bar link and the exhaust mount as 
that wasnt identified by the dealership as necessarily being caused by the accident.
First Response havent accepted this additional damage was present at the point of 
supply. But, even if theyre wrong about that, the relevant legislation allows the 
business an opportunity to repair any faults present at supply. So, I think First 
Response are doing what could be expected of them.
So, Im not asking First Response to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman