DRN-2509365
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc caused a delay in transferring his funds from a 
cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) to a stocks and shares ISA. He says this led him to 
lose out on purchasing a number of shares.
What happened
Mr L had a cash ISA with Sainsburys. He wanted to transfer the funds to his stocks and 
shares ISA with another provider. He explained he wanted to do this so he could purchase 
specific shares. There appears to have been an initial delay in Sainsburys receiving the 
instruction.
Mr L says he called Sainsburys on 23 March 2020 to ask how the transfer was going. He 
says he was told during this call that specific information was missing but that Sainsburys 
would contact the other provider that day to get the transfer sorted. Mr L says this didnt 
happen until the following day causing a 24-hour delay. The transfer happened on 25 March 
and Mr L says the share price had increased meaning hed lost out on number of shares. 
Hes calculated his loss at more than £3,000.
Sainsburys said that it hadnt given Mr L any incorrect information in its calls with him. It also 
said that the transfer was completed two days after it received the instructions from the other 
provider. It said this was within the five bank working days that the terms of Mr Ls ISA set 
out for transfers so it hasnt done anything wrong.
Our investigator agreed with Sainsburys. She explained that Sainsburys hadnt told Mr L on 
23 March that it would email the other share provider. She said this didnt happen until 24 
March and the transfer was completed on 25 March  within the timeframe set out in the 
terms of his account. So, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
I firstly want to explain that the terms of Mr Ls cash ISA he has with Sainsburys say:
If you want to transfer some or all of the money in your account to a new ISA provider, well 
send the funds and accompanying information to the new ISA provider within five bank 
working days of receiving the relevant instruction and information form them and in 
accordance with the regulations.
I can see that Sainsburys received the transfer request from the other provider on 23 March 
2020 and transferred the funds on 25 March 2020. This is clearly within the time limits set 
out in the terms of Mr Ls ISA. So, I dont think Sainsburys has caused a delay.
Ive also listened to the calls Mr L had with Sainsburys. Mr L has said that Sainsburys told 
him it had received the transfer request but needed to clarify some details as some were 
missing. He says it told him it would do this on 23 March 2020. But this isnt the case. In the 
call on 23 March Sainsburys says it hasnt got any details on the system for the transfer. 
This means it hadnt received the transfer request at this time. It didnt tell him it had, or that 
it would be requesting further details that day. So, I cant agree that it gave Mr L incorrect 
information, or that it caused a delay.
I understand the transfer form did arrive on 23 March 2020, but I think its likely this was after 
Mr L made his call. On 24 March Sainsburys emailed the other provider for the missing 
information. It received this and actioned the request on 25 March 2020. The transfer was 
completed within two days. So, I dont think Sainsburys has acted unreasonably or given 
Mr L any incorrect information.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman