DRN-3464706
The complaint
Mr M and Ms W complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their claim following a 
car accident under their motor insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mr M for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In November 2021 Ms W was involved in a car accident. She is a named driver on Mr Ms 
car insurance policy. Mr M subsequently contacted AXA to inform it of the accident. 
Mr M says the third-party driver moved into the lane Ms W was driving in and was at fault for 
the collision. He says Ms W drives that route regularly and gave a full explanation of the 
circumstances of the collision to AXA along with photos of the damage caused. Mr M says 
its clear from the damage that the third party is responsible for the collision. He told AXA Ms 
W would supply a statement and attend court if necessary. 
Mr M isnt happy that AXA settled the claim on a 50/50 liability basis. He doesnt think it has 
acted properly to protect his interests and defend the claim. He says AXA didnt appoint an 
engineer to inspect the damage to ascertain who was at fault for the collision. Mr M says the 
area in question is covered by CCTV, but AXA made no attempt to obtain this. He says this 
evidence had been destroyed by the time he was aware of its existence. 
AXA told Mr M that due to the evidence provided it had concluded the claim must be settled 
on a 50/50 split basis. It says it doesnt have enough evidence to show who was at fault. It 
says if Mr M can provide CCTV footage or witness statements it will reassess its decision. 
Otherwise it will maintain its decision to settle the claim on a 50/50 liability basis. 
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought AXA had considered the available 
evidence fairly and based its decision on what it felt the outcome would be if the claim went 
to court. She says Mr Ms policy terms allow AXA to decide how best to settle the claim. Our 
investigator felt by paying Mr M compensation for the customer service issues he 
experienced, AXA had behaved reasonably. 
Mr M maintains that AXA hasnt investigated the matter fairly. He asked that an ombudsman 
review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My role here is to consider whether AXA handled Mr Ms claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. A decision about who is 
responsible for an accident is best made by a court of law.
Mr M doesnt think AXA acted in his best interests by accepting split liability for the accident 
Ms W was involved in. I have read his policy terms to understand what is expected here. The 
terms, under the section entitled General conditions applying to all sections of your policy 
say:
Claims: If you or your car are involved in any type of incident, accident, claim or loss 
regardless of fault you must:
b) Give us full control of the claim including the uplift storage and repair of your car. We 
may take over, defend or settle the claim or take up any claim in your name; you must not 
negotiate regarding any claim, settle any claim without our written permission or admit 
liability for any claim unless we ask you to do so.
This means that its for AXA to decide how to it wants to deal with Mr Ms claim and whether 
to accept liability or not. Most motor insurance policies contain this term. But we still expect 
any decision on liability to be based on the facts and evidence. I can see that AXA 
considered several different sources of information. 
Mr M sent photos of the damage to AXA in support of his claim along with Ms Ws account of 
the accident. He also sent what was discussed with the third-party driver and a description of 
the damage that was caused. 
I can see that AXA obtained a damage report. This details the damage to his car and cost of 
repairs. I note Mr Ms concerns that AXA didnt obtain an engineers report so as to ascertain 
blame. The damage report doesnt provide comment on liability. But it is clear from this 
report where on his car the damage had occurred. 
AXA considered both parties testimony from the accident. The third party claimed Ms W 
changed lanes from a bus lane into the lane they were travelling in, causing the collision. Ms 
W says she was driving in the bus lane, which was permitted at that time of day, when the 
third party turned into her lane. 
I understand Mr M and Ms W feel strongly that the third party was to blame. But there are 
two opposing accounts of what happened, which is what AXA highlighted in its settlement 
response. 
No independent witnesses were identified and no dashcam or CCTV footage was provided. 
Mr M says that AXA made no attempt to obtain CCTV footage although the area in question 
was covered by council operated cameras. He says by the time he was made aware that 
footage was available this was no longer available. 
I have thought about whether AXA behaved fairly given Mr Ms comments that CCTV was 
available. I cant see that Mr M told AXA that CCTV footage had been captured of the 
accident. Similarly, he hasnt shown that the accident was captured on CCTV. If AXA had 
been made aware that CCTV was available, I think its reasonable to expect it to make 
attempts to get hold of this information. But based on what I have seen, I dont think Mr M 
has shown that footage was available or that AXA was made aware of this. 
Based on this information AXA considered there was insufficient evidence to prove or 
disprove either partys version of events. In the circumstances described I dont think Mr M has shown that AXA acted unfairly in 
reaching this decision based on the evidence, or that it should reasonably have done more 
to investigate the claim. 
Mr M says AXA failed to keep him and Mrs W updated on the progress of the claim and 
didnt return calls. 
I have read the claim notes to understand what happened. I can see that AXA spoke to Ms 
W in December 2021 and apologised for the lack of updates. The call note says Ms W was 
told it was waiting on the third partys response before providing an update. AXA says it 
should have provided an interim update prior to this. It offered £50 to acknowledge the poor 
service, which was accepted by Ms W. 
I think it was reasonable for AXA to provide an apology and £50 compensation for the 
service issues identified. Based on what I have read I dont think I need to ask AXA to do 
more in relation to the customer service issues raised. 
In summary I dont think AXA behaved unfairly when relying in its policy terms and deciding 
to settle Mr Ms claim in the way it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman