DRN-3344049
The complaint
Mrs E complains Clarke and Partners LLP caused unreasonable delays when she wanted to 
switch the investment fund of her stocks and shares ISA. The fund Mrs E wanted to leave 
was suspended before the switch happened, leaving Mrs Es money trapped where it was.
What happened
Mrs E met with Clarke and Partners in February 2019. The meeting had sadly been 
prompted by the death of Mrs Es husband a month earlier. 
Clarke and Partners produced a written summary of Mrs Es investments. But a letter from 
the time confirmed they were waiting until Mrs E had sorted out the probate for her 
husbands estate, before they did anything further. Mrs E had inherited her husbands ISA  
also administered by Clarke and Partners  which was invested in the same fund as hers.
Mrs E and another person were granted probate in April. Clarke and Partners proceeded to 
gather the paperwork needed to act on the estates instructions before doing anything with 
Mrs Es ISA. By 21 May, Clarke and Partners had received most of what they needed. They 
arranged a meeting with Mrs E on 30 May to finalise the estates instructions, and discuss 
Mrs Es plans for her ISAs. 
Mrs E rescheduled the meeting for later in June. But the fund the ISAs were invested in was 
suspended on 3 June. 
Mrs E is unhappy that Clarke and Partners didnt switch her ISAs investment fund 
separately to acting on the ISA she inherited from her husbands estate. But Clarke and 
Partners felt it was reasonable for them to do everything together at the time. 
I looked at this complaint in February 2022, and made a provisional decision for it. At that 
time, Mrs Es complaint as executor of her husbands estate was joined with her complaint 
about her own ISA. I didnt think that was right, so I separated the two.
I then explained that I found it reasonable Clarke and Partners waited for Mrs E to progress 
matters with the ISA she inherited, before acting on her ISA. And I noted she seemed to 
have been happy with that approach at the time. This didnt seem to be a case where Mrs E 
hadnt understood her ISA was separate to the one she would inherit. 
Clarke and Partners said they had nothing to add after seeing my decision. Ive taken that to 
mean theyre satisfied with my understanding of events.
Mrs E disagreed with my decision. She felt shed given Clarke and Partners clear 
instructions to act on her ISA, both in February and in April 2019. She also commented on 
her complaint about Clarke and Partners delaying the action on the ISA she inherited, as this 
in turn would delay actions on her ISA. 
Ive considered Mrs Es comments. I can now proceed to make a final decision for this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate the disappointing position Mrs E is in, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint about Clarke and Partners. I dont think theyve acted in a way that makes them 
responsible for the difficulty she now has releasing her money from the fund its in.
Looking first at the meeting in February 2019, I find it likely there was some discussion about 
Mrs Es ISA. But I cant see there was an instruction to handle that separately to her late 
husbands ISA.
While I appreciate Mrs Es latest comments, Ive given more weight to what she said in her 
complaint on 19 August 2019. That was written closer to the time, so is likely to be more 
accurate about what was said. 
In that complaint  after itemising both her ISA and the one shed inherited  Mrs E said: In 
February I told you that I when I had probate, as all [Mrs Es husbands] estate has been left 
solely to me, I wanted these investments to be withdrawn from the fund.
That fits with the approach Clarke and Partners took. Their letter of 22 February 2019  after 
the meeting with Mrs E  told her:
Once you get Probate we can actually deal with this and make the necessary 
switches for the [specific] fund as outlined at my meeting.
So I find Clarke and Partners were acting in line with Mrs Es instructions by waiting for her 
to progress probate on her husbands estate, before doing anything with her investments.
That leads quite naturally to the idea that the switches would be done at the same time. 
They didnt need to be  but doing so seems consistent with what Mrs Es complaint said her 
instruction was. Having waited for probate, it wouldnt usually be much more to wait to 
confirm the estates instructions before carrying out all of the fund switches Mrs E wanted.
I cant see Mrs Es decision to wait for probate before acting reflected a lack of awareness 
that she could switch her ISA separately to the one she was inheriting. Shed been given the 
separate written summary for her ISA in February, which I feel made it clear her ISA was 
distinct from the one she was to inherit. So the approach instead seems to reflect a decision 
by Mrs E to do all of the switches together.
I can understand that  both ISAs were going to Mrs E, and it would be easier to keep track 
of things if they were done together. So Im not convinced Mrs E would have changed her 
approach if Clarke and Partners had told her she could. I find it more likely she already knew 
acting separately was possible, but had decided against it.
Nobody knew the fund would be suspended before the estates instructions were confirmed. 
Its that fact that seems to drive this complaint. I appreciate Mrs E looks at that, and feels 
disappointed that things werent done in a way that could have avoided that problem.
But I cant see Clarke and Partners could have known that would be the case before it 
happened. With what was known and discussed at the time, I find it was reasonable for 
Clarke and Partners to wait for Mrs E to be able to move her husbands estate forward, 
before acting on her own ISA.Ive separately considered the progress of the instructions for the ISA Mrs E inherited. I 
found nothing in that complaint that will change my decision for Mrs Es complaint. My final 
decision is that Clarke and Partners took reasonable steps to deal with Mrs Es instructions, 
given the circumstances at the time. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman