DRN-3796124
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in providing
information about his pension and putting his benefits into payment. Mr H also says the
pension hes now receiving is too low.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2022. Ive set out again what I said about what 
had happened and my provisional findings. 
Very briefly, Mr H had a pension policy with Aviva. His normal retirement date (NRD) was 
his 65th birthday in January 2020. He contacted Aviva in early 2020 about accessing his
benefits. The initial quotations provided by Aviva were incorrect and revised quotations were
issued. Mr H completed the relevant paperwork and returned it to Aviva so that his benefits
(a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) pension of £11,040.12 pa plus tax free cash of
£57,264.34) could be put into payment. Aviva later contacted Mr H to say the tax free cash
had reduced  to £53,632.75  and sought confirmation from as to whether Mr H still wished
to proceed. Mr H initially indicated that he did but he then changed his mind. Aviva told him
the GMP pension would increase in deferment. And that the fund value would come back up.
In early 2021 Mr H contacted Aviva again about taking his benefits. There was some delay
on Avivas part in getting back to Mr H and he contacted us. I understand his benefits were
put into payment in May 2021 (based on a retirement date of 29 March 2021). That part of
his fund that related to his non GMP pension had been used to buy a pension of £18.48 pa
and pay a tax free lump sum of £56,609.55. The GMP part of his fund had been used to pay
a pension of £10,770.24 pa. A spouses pension of £5,385.12 pa was payable.
Amongst other things, Mr H was unhappy that his GMP pension was less than had been
quoted in 2020 although hed been told it would increase in deferment. He said hed lost a
years income.
Aviva sent Mr H a final response letter on 11 May 2021. Aviva upheld Mr Hs complaint
about the time taken to send him the retirement benefit quotation hed asked for in January
2021. But Aviva didnt agree that Mr H had lost out on a years income because of anything
that Aviva had done wrong. Aviva said it recalculates benefits once it has the customers
instructions. Theres a safety check in place to ensure customers are contacted before
benefits are set up (a decision that cant be reversed) if theres been a significant change in
values. Hence Aviva had spoken to Mr H on 11 June 2020. Aviva didnt agree that Mr H had
been put under any pressure to decide. Aviva said, at the time Mr H had decided to defer
taking his benefits, thered been no delay in providing him with information and hed been
given all the necessary information to make his decision, which Aviva hadnt influenced.
But Aviva did agree it had let Mr H down by delaying in providing him with quotations
following his request on 18 January 2021. There was further delay in checking his
instructions (received on 29 March 2021) and noticing that the bank account identification
wasnt sufficient and requesting an up to date statement. Aviva said it had based Mr Hs
annuity on a retirement date of 29 March 2021 and hed get a catch up payment. Aviva
would also carry out a loss assessment to compare what had been paid with what wouldve
been paid if thered been no delays to ensure Mr H hadnt been financially disadvantaged.
Aviva was also making a payment of £300 for the inconvenience Mr H had suffered.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. In summary she said in 2020 the
quotation Mr H had received was wrong and it had taken Aviva sometime to correct it. Aviva
hadnt then processed promptly the documentation that Mr H returned. But the investigator
didnt think that had caused the drop in the value of Mr Hs pension fund. She said hed
chosen to defer his pension and she couldnt say hed have acted differently but for the
delay. Aviva had admitted thered been further delays in 2021. Aviva had acted fairly by
setting up Mr Hs annuity based on a retirement date of 29 March 2021 which was when
Aviva had received Mr Hs instructions. Aviva had also confirmed a loss assessment had
been carried out. The result was a payment of £2,088.45 to Mr H. His annuity was also
£74.64 pa higher than it wouldve been and would remain so going forwards.
The investigator thought that, plus the £300 payment, was fair. But she remained concerned
as to why Mr Hs GMP was less than hed been quoted in 2020 and when hed been told it
would increase. She said Aviva needed to check Mr H was receiving the correct amount.
Weve fairly recently heard further from Aviva about that. Ill ask the investigator to supply a
copy of Avivas email of 30 September 2022. But essentially Aviva accepts the GMP Mr H is
being paid is wrong and that it should be higher. And thats impacted on his non GMP
benefits too. In summary Aviva confirmed:
Mr Hs GMP at state pension age was £10,929.88 (made up of pre 88 GMP of
£9,570.60 and post 88 GMP of £1,359.28). Thats consistent with the letter he was
sent on 30 September 2013 (and subsequent information hes received).
Mr Hs policy has two parts  the main policy and a redress policy. Id assume the
latter arose following the payment of pension review redress. The main policy is used
to provide the GMP. If theres a shortfall  that is, if the fund value is insufficient to
meet the cost of buying the GMP, Aviva has to meet the shortfall. The redress policy
is in addition. It can provide tax free cash and additional pension.
The quotation issued to Mr H on 4 March 2020 was incorrect. It was based on the
incorrect GMP held on Avivas system - £7,614.88 (made up of pre 88 GMP of
£6,255.78 and post GMP of £1,359.10). The quotation shows a slightly higher GMP
of £7,692.36 as the effective date was more than seven weeks after Mr Hs NRD.
Mr H queried the GMP figure as it was much lower than hed been expecting. A
revised quotation was issued, using the correct GMP - £11,040.12 pa. That meant
the redress policy was payable wholly as tax free cash.
But, after Mr H had returned the forms to take his benefits, the fund value was
recalculated. The wrong GMP was used. That reduced the tax free cash to more in
line with the original (and incorrect) quote. So Mr H was contacted to see if he still
wanted to go ahead. Mr H was led to believe the reason for the lower tax free cash
was that the fund value had reduced. But it had increased and the reason was that
the incorrect GMP had been used again.
The quotation in April 2021 was also wrong. It was again based on the wrong GMP.
The correct GMP was £12,051.52 pa. The value of the redress policy was £57,996,
all payable as tax free cash.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont disagree with the findings reached by the investigator about what happened in 2020and 2021 as to Avivas delays in providing information and processing Mr Hs requests for
payment of his benefits. But that still left the matter of whether Mr H was receiving the
correct benefits.
As Ive explained above, Aviva has now accepted that its records held the incorrect GMP for
Mr H and as a result his annuity in payment is incorrect. Further, the amount of the tax free
cash he received was too low. And, as the correct crystallised value was higher, all of the
redress policy was payable as tax free cash, with no additional pension.
Its clear that there was confusion about Mr Hs correct GMP and that led to wrong
information being provided to Mr H. Aviva reverted to using the incorrect GMP even though a
problem had been identified earlier. The issue wasnt spotted, despite Mr H having
complained that his annuity was too low.
The issue is what Aviva needs to do to put things right for Mr H. My aim in awarding redress
is to put Mr H, as far as possible, back in the position hed be in but for Avivas errors and if
Aviva had dealt with his request to take benefits from his policy as it shouldve done.
The NRD for Mr Hs policy was his 65th birthday in January 2020. Aviva, in accordance with
its usual process in the months leading up to NRD, sent information to Mr H in November
and December 2019. Mr H contacted Aviva in January 2020 about taking his benefits. I dont
think, even if things had gone as they shouldve done, that Mr Hs benefits wouldve been put
into payment from his 65th birthday. In looking at when benefits wouldve been paid, as
things stood, Mr H, having requested information in January 2020, asked for quotations on
24 February 2020 which Aviva supplied on 4 March 2020. Thats within the two week
timeframe which Aviva mentioned in its final response letter in connection with the
quotations supplied in 2021.
Mr H didnt accept the quotation supplied on 4 March 2020 because it was wrong. Had it
been correct, I dont see any reason to assume Mr H wouldnt have accepted it. As to when
that wouldve been, it seems, from the timeline set out in the investigators view, that Mr H
accepted the replacement quotation sent by Aviva in early April 2020 at the end of April
2020. So, adopting the same timings, I think its fair to say, had the quotations issued on 4
March 2020 been correct, Mr H wouldve accepted them and returned the paperwork to
Aviva by, at the latest, 31 March 2020.
Aviva rejected Mr Hs claim that hed lost out on a years income on the basis it was Mr Hs
decision to defer taking benefits. Aviva said, at that time, thered been no delay in providing
information and Aviva had given Mr H all the necessary information to make his decision.
But we now know that the information on which Mr H made his decision to defer payment of
his benefits was wrong. Although the revised quotation hed been given was correct  it
showed the higher GMP and the correct tax free cash  when benefits were recalculated
prior to being put into payment, the wrong (lower) GMP figure was again used. So his GMP
and tax free cash was understated. I accept that Mr H relied on the incorrect information he
was given in deciding to delay taking his benefits. If hed been given the correct information 
I think hed have taken his benefits then. And, as Ive said above, I think Aviva would have
received his instructions by 31 March 2020. Aviva would then have sought confirmation of
Mr Hs banking arrangements and backdated the start date of Mr Hs annuity to 31 March
2020, which reflects what actually happened.
I went on to set out what Aviva needed to do to put things right. 
Aviva hasnt commented in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr H said he was happy to accept my provisional decision but he was concerned that Aviva would be undertaking the loss calculation. He added that Id referred to the loss assessment 
which Aviva had previously undertaken which said his loss was £2,088.45. Mr H said he 
hadnt received that payment, although he had received the £300 for inconvenience which 
Aviva had paid earlier.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or comments about what happened and why Aviva was 
at fault, my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. 
Ive repeated what I said above and it forms part of this final decision. 
Ive set out below what Aviva needs to do to put things right for Mr H. It follows what I said in 
my provisional decision although, as Mr H didnt actually receive any payment following 
Avivas earlier loss calculation, theres no earlier paid redress to be taken into account.
In accordance with our normal procedure weve asked Aviva to undertake the calculations. It 
has all the relevant information and we wouldnt normally undertake the calculations 
ourselves. 
I can understand why Mr H might be concerned about further delays and Id ask Aviva to 
undertake the calculations promptly following receipt of notification that Mr H has accepted 
my final decision. In accordance with the award Ive made below, interest on the payment 
shortfalls will continue to run and be payable until the redress is actually paid. 
Putting things right
Aviva needs to undertake a loss calculation. It needs to work out what benefits Mr H
wouldve received (annuity payments and tax free cash) from 31 March 2020. And compare
those sums with the amounts Mr H has actually been paid. 
Interest at 8% pa should be added to each missed (net) payment or on the (net) shortfall
paid as applicable from the date each payment shouldve been made (had benefits been put
into payment from 31 March 2020) to the date of payment. The same rate of interest should
be applied to the tax free cash payment which Mr H shouldve received on 31 March 2020
and to the shortfall after payment was made in 2021.
Aviva should supply details of its calculations to Mr H in a clear and simple format.
Aviva will need to adjust Mr Hs annuity going forwards so he is paid the higher GMP.
Aviva should pay Mr H a further £300 for the further distress and inconvenience hes
suffered because Aviva has paid Mr H the wrong benefits (GMP and non GMP) since 2021.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must redress Mr H as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Lesley SteadOmbudsman