DRN-4113588
The complaint
Mr P complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim on his 
home insurance.
What happened
Mr P had an Admiral home insurance policy. In April 2022, he called Admiral to ask if he 
could upgrade his policy to landlord insurance as hed be moving out of his home and 
letting it to tenants. He moved out on 30 April 2022. 
The following day, he discovered that his TV and another item had been damaged during the 
move. He made a claim to Admiral. 
Admiral declined Mr Ps claim and avoided his policy. It said:
Mr P hadnt told it in advance the exact date hed be moving out of his home.
His policy would be avoided from 30 April 2022  the date hed moved out  because 
his policy didnt cover tenanted properties.
Mr P said his belongings were damaged on 1 May 2022. 
As the policy was avoided from 30 April, the damage to these items wasnt covered.
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. Hes unhappy Admiral 
declined the claim for damage to his belongings, that it recorded his policy as being avoided 
by the insurer, and that it took his May 2022 premium even though it cancelled his policy.  
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in part. He was 
satisfied that Admirals decision to decline the claim was reasonable. However, he didnt 
think it was fair for Admiral to record Mr Ps policy as avoided by the insurer. Mr P had told 
Admiral he was going to move out and let his home and did so. Our investigator thought 
Admiral should amend its records to show that Mr P cancelled the policy on 30 April 2022. 
He also asked Admiral to confirm it had refunded Mr Ps May 2022 premium.
Admiral disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three issues in this complaint: Mr Ps claim for damage to his belongings; 
Admirals record of the policy cancellation; and Mr Ps May 2022 premium. Ive considered 
each below.
Mr Ps claim for damage to his belongings
Page 25 of Mr Ps policy booklet says hes covered for accidental damage to contents while 
they are being moved, by a professional removals company, to your new home. [my 
emphasis]. The booklet also says loss or damage to fragile items isnt covered unless they 
were packed by professional packers.
Mr P told us the removal was done by a family friend and there was no contract in place for 
this. The items were shipped overseas and the damage to his TV  and, presumably, the 
other item  was discovered when it was unpacked the following day.
The removal wasnt carried out by a professional removals company. Its also possible Mr 
Ps belongings were damaged in transit the day after the removal, rather than during the 
removal itself. So Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Ps belongings isnt covered by his 
policy. I understand that Mr P accepts this.
Admirals record of the policy cancellation 
Admiral recorded the termination of Mr Ps policy as an insurer-led voidance. Mr P is 
worried about the impact of this on his future insurance premiums. Hed like Admiral to 
record this as him cancelling the policy on 30 April 2022.
Despite our investigators recommendation, Admiral has refused to do this. It told us: 
Even though [Mr P] made us aware of the intention to move out and let the property 
at the time of the call there was no exact date, and [Mr P] would still need to inform 
us beforehand if the property will no longer be your home address or if you plan to 
rent out your home or use it as a holiday home [sic].
It referred Mr P to page 12 of his policy booklet1. This says: If you do not tell us about any 
corrections or changes, this could mean that we do not pay your claim, we reduce the 
amount you can claim for, or we declare your policy void (consider it to have never existed).
I dont really understand Admirals stance. It has said it voided the policy from 30 April 
2022. But every mention of avoidance in the policy booklet  for example, the section 
Welcome to your Home Insurance policy, as well as pages 12, 38 and 39  says this means 
the policy is treated as if it never existed. That isnt what happened here. Mr P was covered 
from June 2021 until he moved out of his home. So, Admiral has cancelled  not avoided  
the policy. 
Admiral accepts that Mr P told it he was moving out of his home and letting it to tenants. The 
20 April 2022 call recording confirms this. While Mr P didnt give the date of his move, 
Admirals advisor didnt ask him and transferred his call to another department.
Mr Ps phone record shows this call lasted 16 minutes. Admiral provided only four minutes of 
the recording. It says Mr P must have hung up before being transferred to one of its landlord 
insurance advisors. However, Mr P gave details of the conversation after being transferred in 
his May 2022 complaint to Admiral, just over two weeks after his claim.. He said Admirals 
advisor told him it didnt offer rent guarantee as part of its landlord insurance, and he should 
get this cover elsewhere. I dont see how Mr P would have known this unless hed spoken to 
an advisor. 
Im satisfied that Mr P told Admiral of his intention to move out. I think its likely he also 
spoke to one of Admirals advisors about landlord insurance. I agree he didnt give an exact 
date for the move, however he contacted Admiral a few days after moving out to say hed 
moved. I know he did this while making his claim, however I think Admirals decision to avoid 
1 This section is on page 11, not page 12the policy was unreasonable. It would have been much more reasonable simply to decline 
the claim  for the reasons Ive set out  and agree to cancel the policy.   
Recording the policy as avoided by the insurer has the potential to impact Mr Ps future 
premiums. Given the circumstances of this case, I think that would be disproportionate and 
unfair. 
For the reasons above, I think Admiral should remove any information from any internal or 
external databases that shows an avoidance of the policy. Instead, it should record the 
policy as cancelled by Mr P on 30 April 2022. 
May 2022 premium
Mr P said Admiral took his May 2022 premium on 26 May 2022. We asked Admiral about 
this. It told us a £28.31 charge was incorrectly attached to the policy. It said this was 
stopped and never charged.
However, in the emails Admiral sent to us, one of its advisors said she had to get accounts 
to do the refund when she handled the case in May/June 2022. This suggests the premium 
was taken, otherwise thered be no reason for her to ask her colleagues to arrange a refund. 
We asked Admiral to clarify this, but it didnt reply.
Given the evidence  and Admirals failure to clarify this point  I think its likely that Admiral 
took Mr Ps May 2022 premium and hasnt refunded it. Unless it can show that it has already 
refunded this, Admiral should pay £28.31 to Mr P as soon as possible. It should also add 
interest to this amount at 8% simple per year.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and order Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
Remove any information from any internal or external databases that shows an 
avoidance of the policy.
Record the policy as cancelled by Mr P.
If it hasnt already done so, refund Mr Ps May 2022 premium of £28.31. It should add 
interest to this at 8% simple per year from the date it took the payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman