DRN-4298790
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc hasnt resolved the problems with its automated 
system through its telephone banking facility.
What happened
Mrs A opened a savings account with Sainsburys. She said the account was supposed to 
be fully automated. But Mrs A complains that since November 2022, when using the 
telephone banking service, she has had to speak to an agent to carry out her transactions. 
Mrs A is unhappy as she says this means she has to wait to be put through to an agent. 
Sainsbury said there is an IT issue affecting some customers. It said it had logged this with 
its IT team, but it couldnt tell Mrs A when the issue would be resolved. It paid Mrs A £50 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused and later offered her an additional £50. 
Mrs A didnt accept this. She would like a clear explanation of what the issue is and a time 
limit for its resolution. She doesnt think the account is fit for purpose and said it doesnt meet 
the expected criteria. As such, she would like Sainsburys to pay her £500 for not supplying 
the service she signed up for and an additional £300 compensation for the inconvenience 
and trouble of having to go through a complaints process. Mrs A would also like to know why 
she didnt get a response from a manager as requested. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Sainsburys 
acknowledged its automated service had let Mrs A down and she thought it had paid fair 
compensation. Our investigator said the evidence shows speaking to an advisor doesnt 
cause any significant delays, and she was satisfied Sainsburys is investigating the issue.
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators opinion and says she hasnt been given an explanation 
of the IT issues which are causing the problem. And that the problem has been on going for 
around a year and she wonders when it will be fixed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. 
Sainsburys acknowledged that there are issues with the automated system thats available 
via its telephone banking service. It also acknowledged that when Mrs A first encountered 
the problem, she had to wait a long time to be put through to an advisor to complete her 
transaction. What I therefore must consider is whether Sainsburys has treated Mrs A fairly in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied it has and Ill explain why. 
When things go wrong, we expect a business to put them right. Its not always possible to put 
the consumer back in exactly the position they would have been in had the error not 
occurred. However, I expect Sainsburys to ensure Mrs A hasnt lost out financially because 
of the error. And to address any practical or emotional impact it has had on her.
Sainsburys explained that the problem impacting some of its consumers is that when using 
the telephone banking service, the system automatically transfers them to an agent, rather 
than putting them through the automated route. I appreciate Mrs A would like a more 
detailed answer than the one thats been provided, but I find the information sufficient in the 
circumstances. Furthermore, I dont think giving a more detailed explanation of whats 
causing the problems would change the position Mrs A finds herself in. 
Sainsburys has shown the issue has been logged with its IT team, and it has said the matter 
is still under investigation. Ive not seen anything to suggest that isnt the case. Sainsburys 
informed Mrs A it couldnt give a timescale for the problem to be resolved. I appreciate its 
been several months since the issue was reported, but theres nothing more I could 
reasonably expect it to do to resolve the IT problem.
Sainsburys suggested Mrs A use its online banking facility to operate her account. I 
appreciate Mrs A has her reasons for not using online banking, but I find its a reasonable 
alternative, which is still automated and allows Mrs A to complete transactions without 
having to speak to an agent and at a time that suits her. Ultimately, Im satisfied Sainsburys 
has done all it reasonably can to try to resolve things for Mrs A while it tries to fix the system 
issues. 
Its not disputed that Mrs A has not received the service she expected. And I can understand 
how frustrating it is that the issue has persisted and its not clear when it might be resolved. 
Sainsburys has already paid £50 compensation for the initial delay Mrs A experienced while 
waiting to be connected to an advisor. Its also offered to pay an additional £50 
compensation for the inconvenience Mrs A has faced. So, Ive thought about whether this is 
fair. 
Im satisfied the IT issues havent caused any financial loss to Mrs A. She has opted to 
continue to use telephone banking to operate her account even though she is aware of the 
alternative methods available to her. I dont think Sainsburys needs to compensate for this. 
And while Sainsburys has acknowledged one call took longer than expected (as mentioned 
above) its shown that on average it takes two minutes to be connected to an agent. So, Im 
persuaded the inconvenience Mrs A has faced has been minimal. 
I recognise that the reason Mrs A says that she applied for the account was to make use of 
the automated service Sainsburys said it provided. So, I can understand why she feels that 
without this feature the account isnt fit for purpose. If she remains dissatisfied with the 
options available to her with Sainsburys, Mrs A may find another bank is better able to cater 
to her needs. I appreciate its disappointing Sainsburys cant resolve the matter in the way 
Mrs A hoped, but Im satisfied £100 compensation in total is fair in the circumstances.  
Mrs A would like to be compensated for going through the process of making a complaint, 
but I havent seen that raising the matter was particularly difficult. Mrs A was able to voice 
her concerns, even though the answer wasnt what she hoped for, she received a response 
from Sainsburys in good time. Complaints are how issues are flagged and sorted  but it 
wouldnt be fair to expect firms to pay its customers just to go through that process. Our 
approach is to compensate the impact caused by a mistake, and I consider Sainsburys has 
done that here. So, I dont think it needs to do anything further to resolve the matter. I 
understand that Mrs A expected a manager to respond to her concerns, but Sainsburys is 
entitled to decide how it deals with customer complaints.
Overall, Im satisfied Sainsburys has treated Mrs A in a fair and reasonable manner and I dont find it needs to do more than its already offered to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mrs A the 
additional £50 compensation it has offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman