DRN-2955717
The complaint
Miss A complains that she was mis-sold a life assurance policy by Sesame Limited.
What happened
In 2007, Miss A was advised to take out a level term life assurance policy by an advisor that 
Sesame is now responsible for. Miss A had an interest-only mortgage and was sold a 
reviewable policy which matched the amount and term of her mortgage. The policy would 
pay out if Miss A passed away during the term. Miss A recently complained that this was 
mis-sold. She explained that she didnt need the policy as she was single with no 
dependants and she had life cover through her employer.
Sesame partially upheld Miss As complaint. It said that it felt life cover was suitable as it 
meant Miss As family wouldnt have to sell her property before releasing the funds to her 
estate if she passed away. But it felt that a reviewable policy wasnt suitable, so offered 
Miss A the difference in premiums between what she paid, and what she wouldve paid had 
she been sold a guaranteed level term assurance policy. Miss A didnt accept that offer as 
she said she had no need for life cover so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said that it was clear the life cover 
wasnt a condition of the mortgage, and there was no clear benefit to Miss A to have her 
mortgage paid off if she passed away as she lived alone and had no dependents. She didnt 
think it was a suitable recommendation. Our Investigator recommended that Sesame 
refunds Miss As premiums with interest.
Sesame disagreed. It said it was a prudent and sensible course of action to ensure the 
financial burden of a mortgage wasnt left to Miss As family if shed passed away. It felt it 
was suitable for her needs, particularly if there was negative equity in her property. Sesame 
also said it believed Miss A was fully informed and knowledgeable given she worked in the 
financial sector at the time. As no agreement had been reached, the case has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the Investigator that this case should be upheld for similar reasons. I dont think 
Miss A had a need for this policy.
When Miss A was sold this policy, she was single with no dependents. I cant see that there 
was a full discussion that took place in relation to what she wanted to happen to the property 
should she pass away. The only reference, which is in the suitability letter, says:
you have a mortgage you wish to be repaid should you die or be diagnosed as having a 
critical illness
Miss A wasnt sold a critical illness policy and I think its fair to say that if she had, this aspect 
would be suitable for her given her circumstances. But she was only sold life cover  a policy 
that would repay her mortgage in the event of her death. She didnt have anyone living with 
her, and theres no record that she wanted to leave this property to someone if shed passed 
away. So, I dont think Sesame has demonstrated Miss A had a need for life cover, and so I 
dont think this recommendation was suitable.
Ive noted Sesames comments about Miss As experience in the financial sector and I dont 
think its relevant in this case. Miss A was advised to take out life cover and I dont think she 
had a need for it. It was Sesames responsibility to ensure this recommendation was suitable 
and I dont think this was the case for Miss A.
Sesame has said it believes life cover is always suitable, but I dont agree. As theres 
nothing suggesting why Miss A would want her mortgage repaid if she passed away, I think 
its likely that her house would be sold to repay the mortgage. Whilst life cover is suitable in 
many situations, I dont think Miss As specific circumstances at the time show she had a 
need for it. So, it follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Sesame Limited must refund the premiums Miss A has paid for her term assurance policy. It 
should also add 8% simple interest* to this amount from the date the premium was paid to 
the date of settlement.
*If Sesame Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should also give Miss A 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Sesame Limited must follow the 
redress Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman