DRN-4422702
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined her claim for
treatment required by her two cats, under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2023 Mrs P says she made three claims to RSA for the treatment of severe gingivitis
for her two cats. It declined to pay any of the claims. Mrs P says gingivitis is a bacterial
infection that is relatively easy to treat. Her cats have recovered fully after each previous
treatment, which is recorded in their clinical records. She says RSA told her that it declined
her claims because her cats have chronic recurrent gingivitis.
Mrs P says her vet doesnt recognise this disease and this isnt excluded under her policy.
She didnt think it was fair for RSA to decline her claims, so she complained to the business.
In its final complaint response RSA says gingivitis was noticed before the policy started,
which meant it was considered a pre-existing condition.
Mrs P didnt agree and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld her
complaint. She says Mrs Ps cats were seen in February 2021. The clinical records dont
mention gingivitis at this visit and the cover with RSA didnt begin until two months later in
April.
As there were no exclusions for gingivitis our investigator didnt think it was fair for RSA to
decline the claims. She says the online information its vet provided doesnt support its view
that the condition cant be cured or reset. Our investigator thought RSA should settle the
claims and pay 8% simple interest on the amount Mrs P had paid for the treatment.
RSA agreed to settle the claim for one of Mrs Ps cats but not both. It says the clinical
records show the need to remove one of the cats teeth was identified in May 2020. As this
was known before the policy incepted it wouldnt agree to cover this claim. Our investigator
didnt change her view, so RSA asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs 
Ps complaint in part. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part. Let me explain.
RSA has agreed to pay the claims for Mrs Ps cat, Ill refer to as cat A. This includes 8%
simple interest on the treatment costs shes already paid. So, I neednt consider this aspect
of her complaint further. However, RSA only agreed to this after our service became
involved. This is why Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint in part.
Ive thought about the claim submitted by Mrs P for treatment for her other cat, which Ill refer
to as cat B. She submitted a claim for treatment carried out on 21 March 2022. Ive read the
clinical records from this date, which say:
Admitted for senior dental
Procedure: both upper canines extracted, both roots infected and severe gingivitis
Stable throughout procedure and recovery
RSA says cat B received treatment in May 2020, prior to the policy incepting. At this time the
need to remove cat Bs upper canines was identified. The clinical record from this treatment
says:
extractions 308 and 408 - both teeth caudal roots came out intact but front roots appear
resorbed as unable to identify any roots as such - upper canines will require extraction in
near future but felt better to get inflammation under control first..
This information shows that the treatment in March 2022 was to remove cat Bs upper
canine teeth. However, RSA correctly pointed out that this was identified by Mrs Ps vet back
in May 2020, prior to the inception of her policy. This means treatment was provided for a
pre-existing issue. This is the reason RSA gave in its complaint response for declining cover.
Mrs Ps policy terms say:
What is not covered
We will not pay for:
Any changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or behaviour before this
policy starts, we will not pay claims for these changes or any illness or injury that
develops from these changes.
As with most insurance policies RSAs terms exclude cover for anything pre-existing. Its
clear from the clinical records that Mrs Ps vet identified the need to extract cat Bs upper
canine teeth in May 2020. This was identified prior to the policy incepting. RSA has provided
comments from its in-house vet that says the March 2022 treatment was a continuation of
the 2020 issue.
Ive considered Mrs Ps argument about gingivitis not being an ongoing illness. She points
out that the clinical records show cat B attended the vets on 11 February 2021. The record
says, teeth ok, no gingivitis or ulcers at the moment. This was also prior to the policy
incepting. I understand her argument. But the need to extract cat Bs upper canines was
clearly identified in May 2020. This is the exact same treatment that was carried out in March
2022.
Having considered the evidence Im more persuaded by RSAs vets comments that this was
a continuation of the issue identified in 2020.
In these circumstances I dont think RSA treated Mrs P unfairly by relying on its policy terms
to decline her claim for cat Bs treatment. As already agreed RSA should pay the cost of the
treatment for cat A plus 8% simple interest. If it hasnt already. But I cant reasonably ask it
to do more.I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and RSA should:
pay the cost of cat As treatment plus 8% simple interest (if it hasnt already), from
the date Mrs P paid the invoice until payment is made.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA responded to say it had nothing further to add and that it was happy to accept my 
provisional findings. 
Mrs P responded to say that although she had no further information to submit she would 
like to add some comments. She says for a condition to be continuous, it has to continue. 
She says the vet in the 2020 report doesnt say why the teeth will need to come out. She 
says Gingivitis isnt identified in 2021 therefore it doesnt continue from 2020. But that it does 
cause a severe gum infection, which meant teeth had to come out in 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs Ps comments that she doesnt think the issue with cat Bs teeth was a 
continuation of the issue identified in 2020. But I disagree. The clinical records from May 
2020 clearly show that cat Bs upper canines were identified to require extraction in [sic] 
near future. 
Mrs Ps policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. I think its clear that the need for the 
extraction was identified prior to the policy incepting. The extractions were completed in 
March 2022. This is the exact same procedure that was identified prior to the policy 
incepting. 
As discussed in my provisional decision I think it was fair that RSA decided to cover Mrs Ps 
other cats treatment. But for the reasons discussed here and in my provisional decision Im 
not persuaded that a change to my findings is warranted.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited should:
pay the cost of cat As treatment plus 8% simple interest* (if it hasnt already), from 
the date Mrs P paid the invoice until payment is made.
*If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give her
a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman