DRN-3833433
The complaint
Mr H complains that Funding Circle Ltd provided misleading information when he invested in 
a peer to peer (P2P) opportunity it promoted on its platform.  He says the loan was 
misrepresented and negligently managed, and as a result he has suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
Funding Circle provides a loan-based crowdfunding facility through a P2P platform in
which investors can lend to borrowers in return for interest.
Mr H has been a lending member on Funding Circles platform since 2014 and has invested
in several different loans over a number of years. Mr H stopped investing on the platform in 
September 2017 when there was a change in the terms that meant he could no longer self-
select the loans he invested in.  
In March 2021, Mr H raised a complaint with Funding Circle about a property loan in which 
he originally invested in May 2016, with further loans parts acquired through 2016. He was 
unhappy as the loan failed to pay the interest agreed and left him with a significant loss to 
his original capital. In summary he said:
- Funding Circle, as his agent, had a duty to mitigate building risk but it released all 
funds to the borrower in staged amounts against construction progress  this led to 
an unfinished building of unsatisfactory quality which sold for less than 20% of the 
intended value. 
- The loan promotion document was misleading in material ways  including: 
oinsufficient checks on the borrowers ability to support the personal guarantee 
(PG) for the loan.
oHe has recently discovered the maximum PG required from borrowers is only
10% of the loan value. This was not disclosed to lenders. 
oFunding Circle extended further loans to the borrower for different projects on its 
platform meaning the financial capacity would be very unlikely to meet any claim 
on the PG for this loan. 
oFunding Circle appear to have reduced the security offered for this loan part way 
through by allowing the borrower to carve out a portion of the freehold and use 
that as security for a fresh loan on its platform. 
oThe flats were described as pre-sold in the promotion were not.
- If he had known the actuality of all of this, he would not have lent into this loan or 
other loans on Funding Circles platform which are affected by similar misleading 
promotions and negligent management.
Funding Circle responded to the complaint but did not uphold it. In summary it said:
Capital is at risk when investing in P2P loans and therefore unfortunately
losses are a natural part of lending. When it does experience loans being unable to
repay as planned, it seeks the best viable route to obtain funds to repay the loan. But 
unfortunately, there will be occasions where there will be a shortfall to the recoveries, 
and this was particularly relevant for this loan. 
It doesnt produce misleading material as it is regulated and authorised by the FCA; 
so it has an obligation to carry out true and transparent procedures.
It doesnt lend to businesses recklessly and conducts very rigorous checks. The main 
considerations when offering a loan, is the affordability for the borrower and whether 
they will be able to make the monthly repayments. When this loan was assessed it 
was decided that the borrower could afford the monthly repayments which is why it 
was approved. 
When lending, Mr H agreed for Funding Circle to manage the repayment of the loan 
and to take, or not take, any action that it deemed necessary to recover outstanding 
debts. This is clear within the terms and conditions.
Mr H didnt agree with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Initially he didnt uphold it as he hadnt 
identified failings by Funding Circle that would have led to Mr H making a different decision 
to invest. Mr H didnt accept this assessment and provided further arguments to be 
considered. In summary he said:
He noted Funding Circle had provided evidence to indicate a valuation of the 
development property had been obtained. He said valuations should be taken at 
arms length compared to actual market transactions, which can be taken as fairly 
good evidence of value. So, the purchase figure of £1.6 million for the whole site was 
credible for his investment calculus and that is what he reasonably understood from 
the loan promotion. 
He viewed any 'part-completed project' valuations as meaningless as the valuer has 
no market comparable to produce hard evidence for a partially completed build. 
He would not have been equally happy if he had known the £2 million value referred 
to in the loan promotion was actually a part-completed projected valuation. He would 
have completely dismissed it from his lending calculus and not lent. 
The value of the security was important to him as this was the amount that he 
believed might be obtainable in the worst case if the project failed and the security 
had to be enforced. 
Following this the investigator issued a revised assessment upholding the complaint. In 
summary he said:
Funding Circle provided misleading information within the loan promotion about the 
value of the security. The promotion indicated that the security was for the whole site, 
but Funding Circle has since clarified this it is only for the development property (and 
not the other buildings on the site). 
The investigator was persuaded by Mr Hs testimony that he relied on the information 
in the promotion relating to the security before deciding to invest. He was also 
persuaded by Mr Hs explanation of why he relied on the £1.6 million sale price, 
rather than the £2 million valuation of the development property, when he decided to 
invest.
Overall, he was satisfied Funding Circles promotion was misleading in that it seemed 
to claim security was held over the whole site. He was also satisfied that, if the true 
position had been made clear, Mr H wouldnt have invested as a reduction in his 
understanding of the value of the security would have made a difference to his 
decision.
He recommended Funding Circle compensates Mr H by comparing the position if he 
hadnt invested in this opportunity with what he would have received from the 
average returns on similar property loans of the same risk profile that were available on the platform. 
He also thought Funding Circle should pay £150 compensation to recognise the 
inconvenience Mr H suffered as a result of the impact on him because of Funding 
Circles handling of his queries about this loan.   
Funding Circle didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary it said:
- Mr H allegedly based his investment decision on the 2015 sale price (£1.6 million) of 
the whole site. However, the value of the development property represented 
approximately 89.5% of the value of the whole site  not a third of the value as has 
been assumed. It is confident that given the value of the development property, Mr H 
would still have invested in this loan had the true position of the security been 
clearer. 
- In February 2017, Mr H invested in another loan that was promoted on Funding 
Circles platform for the other two buildings that were on the same site. This suggests 
he likely understood there were two separate developments on the same site,
funded by separate limited companies, with separate security across the two 
developments. If Mr H understood the loan subject to this complaint held a first legal 
charge over the whole site, Funding Circle question why he didnt raise
any concerns about how this would impact his position as an investor on the first loan 
when he decided to invest in the second loan promoted on the site. 
- Mr Hs claim that he would not have invested in either of these developments is 
made only with the benefit of hindsight. There is always a risk the proceeds after 
enforcement may not be enough to discharge all obligations by the borrower to 
lenders on the platform. It has always been clear that security does not equal 
repayment and it never guarantees repayment as when lending through
Funding Circle, an investor's capital is at risk. 
Mr H also responded with further comments. He reiterated his concerns that Funding Circle 
had failed to manage the loan correctly and had misrepresented the loan to him on a number 
of occasions within the Investor Report (IR). As no agreement could be reached, the 
complaint has been passed tome to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through his P2P account, Funding Circle provided Mr H with the opportunity to invest in the 
loans it was promoting on its platform. Mr H selected to invest in this loan based on the 
information he saw on the platform. Ive reviewed the relevant investor terms and conditions 
that applied when Mr H invested as they form the basis of this relationship. 
In reaching my decision, Ive also considered Funding Circles wider obligations. At the time 
of promoting the loan on its platform, Funding Circle was authorised and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms 
are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So, before making the loan available on the platform for investment, Funding Circle needed 
to satisfy itself that the information it collected and used to promote the loan was fair, clear 
and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that by providing an opportunity for its 
customers to invest in the loan it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. 
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself, Funding Circle would need to carry out reasonable 
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given 
case, is something which is very much left to each provider to determine and would vary 
according to the particular circumstances. 
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential 
information on which any communication or promotion is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mr H had invested prior to the publication of the consultation paper and 
guidance, I still feel it is relevant as it provides clarity as to the interpretation and application 
of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Funding Circle at the time.
Ive considered the circumstances surrounding the promotion of this loan  paying particular 
attention to the IR as this was the information Funding Circle provided to set out the details 
of the opportunity, and from which Mr H made his investment decision.  
This is a property loan on a building with residential and commercial units  which was part 
of a site containing three adjacent buildings. Only one of the buildings was to be developed 
using the crowdfunding for the loan  Ill call this the development building and the other 
two buildings Ill call other building H other building C or the other buildings for ease of 
reference. One of the key considerations and points Mr H has raised relates to how the 
security was described in the IR.
Ive considered whether Funding Circle provided clear, fair and not misleading information to 
Mr H about the security before he first invested in the loan. The IR describes the security as 
1st legal charge. In the summary it says: The borrower purchased the property in 2015 for £1.6m with the help of a bridging loan and 
has also funded the costs of gaining the planning permission.
The subject property comprises 3 buildings:
-     The [development building], with primary frontage onto [X Street]
-    [other building H]
-    [other building C]
While the planning permission allows for the development of [other building H] and [other 
building C] as well, at this stage FC investors are only being asked to fund the 
redevelopment of the [development building].
And when describing the site, it says:
All three buildings are situated within the [a] Conservation Area, with [other building H] and 
[other building C] being Grade II listed. The properties have a GIA of c32,000 sq ft and other 
than the commercial units (which have been let to secondary tenants) have been largely 
vacant and disused.
And when referring to the value it says:
We have received an independent valuation and monitoring surveyor report validating the
following figures:
Current site value £2,000,000
GDV £5,447,375
Development costs (incl contingency) £1,700,000
The GDV of £5.447m mentioned above breaks down as follows:
- The value of the resi units total £4,497,375 (breakdown per flat in the table below)
- The commercial units have been valued at £685k
- The freehold has been valued at £265k.
The total value is thus £5,447,375 as mentioned above.
The resi units plus the freehold have been pre-sold for £4,376,500, with the resi units having
been sold at 10-20% discounts to their OMV as is normal for pre-sales of this nature. As we
have security over the whole site we have based our ratios on the £5.447m GDV figure, but 
it is comforting to know that the resi units alone cover the proposed debt more than 1.5x.  
In its submissions to this service Funding Circle has confirmed the security over the whole 
site, means the development building only  and not the other buildings detailed in the IR 
- so the charge it held was over that building only. Funding Circle maintains the 
information in the IR was clear in stating the loan was only to fund the development 
building. And the key loan features table which detailed that the security obtained was a 
first legal charge only referenced the development property address. But it concedes the 
IR could be clearer in describing the property versus the development site.
But Im not persuaded things are as clear as Funding Circle suggest. The IR is clear that the 
funding is for the development for only one of the buildings  but all the way through it 
mentions the site contains three buildings. There is a clear reference to having security over 
the whole site too  this provides a strong suggestion that the security isnt limited to one 
building but rather all three it describes throughout the promotion. The use of the terms site 
and building is informative, so I think this would lead a reasonable person to consider site to mean all three buildings and building just means the one being developed. I dont think it 
reasonable to rely solely on the information in the key features table to show the security 
was set out clearly, when the other information in the IR doesnt make it clear the security is 
only the development property. The IR also provides a visual description of the site using a 
map, which highlights all three buildings. If two of the buildings werent considered to be part 
of the site or security, I wouldnt have expected them to be mentioned and highlighted so 
prominently. I have also seen an extract from Q&A section on the loan profile from Funding 
Circles website, which contains a comment from Funding Circle saying security will include 
a first charge over the entire development site. This again gives the impression the security 
for the loan isnt just the development property.
While I appreciate Funding Circle says the security was always over just the development 
building, the IR doesnt make this clear. This is something I would have expected it to 
provide full clarity about, so investors like Mr H could make an informed decision before they 
became lenders. Having considered the information provided to Mr H before he invested, I 
think it was reasonable for him to understand the security to be the whole site when he 
decided to invest.  Having considered all of the evidence provided, Ive reached the finding 
that the information Funding Circle provided about the security wasnt clear. For these 
reasons, I think it failed to meet its obligation to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information to Mr H. 
I need to decide whether the failure to provide clear information about the security would 
have made Mr H make a different decision on whether to lend. The value of the security is a 
very important piece of information as it allowed Mr H to understand the protection available 
should the loan not perform as expected.
Funding Circle has argued that the value of the development building was clear in the IR. 
So, despite the concessions made about the wording used in the IR, it still thinks Mr H would 
have been aware of the value of the security. It has provided the valuation report it received 
from a surveyor to support that the £2m value detailed on the IR was for the development 
property and not the whole site. It says whether the security was over one building or three, 
investors invested in this loan on the basis that the security was valued at £2 million and this 
is what is relevant. 
But Mr H says when deciding to invest he relied on the information about the price that the 
site was bought for. He says he viewed the sale price as good evidence of value as it was a 
market transaction. So, the figure of £1.6 million for the whole site (plus a slight uplift for 
planning) was credible for his investment calculus and that is what he reasonably 
understood from the IR. He says he views part completed project valuations to be 
meaningless as the valuer has no market comparable to produce hard evidence for a part 
completed build. So, this valuation  even if he understood it was for the development 
property  wasnt something he would have relied on to make his investment decision. He 
says the value that was important to him was the amount that he believed might be 
obtainable in the worst case if the project failed and the security had to  and this was the 
initial site value from the sale price plus the value of any other security. 
Im satisfied that Mr H has made a plausible argument for his decision to invest, it light of the 
information contained within the IR. In response to the investigators findings, Funding Circle 
has provided two main arguments for why it doesnt think clearer information about the 
security would have made a difference to Mr Hs decision to invest. Firstly, it says Mr H 
would still have invested in the loan had he been aware that the true position of the security, 
because the development property represented 89.5% of the value of the whole site. It has 
calculated this value using the predevelopment valuation it obtained on the different 
buildings and made some assumptions to calculate this percentage. It says there is an 
assumption that the value of the security was reduced by two-thirds as it only held securityover one of the three buildings on the site. But it has calculated the value of the development 
building represented approximately 90% of the value of the whole site. It says given this 
figure; it believes Mr H would still have invested if the position on the security was clearer. 
The key point Funding Circle is making here is that the development building represented 
virtually all of the value of the whole site, so the unclear information in the IR about the 
security wouldnt have impacted Mr Hs decision to invest. But I dont think the assumptive 
figure of 89.5% is clear cut as it has suggested. It has relied on separate valuations of the 
properties completed a year apart rather than an evaluation of the whole site done at once. It 
has also used assumed regional increase in property prices in the intervening year between 
valuations. Mr Hs argument, that he doesnt think it is reliable to rely on valuations of 
underdeveloped properties, is also a factor Ive considered. Funding Circle says it believes 
there is an assumption that the value of the security was reduced by two-thirds to £500,000 
as it only held security over one of the three buildings on the site. The figures Funding Circle 
use here arent something that has been mentioned by Mr H. But regardless the unclear 
information in the IR means there was still a reduction in his understanding of the value of 
the security  exactly by how much is less clear. I understand the argument Funding Circle 
make but in my view there is uncertainty about the comparative valuations it presents and 
the reasons Mr H has given for his investment decision mean I dont think it is a strong 
enough argument to say Mr H would still have invested despite the information failings Ive 
identified.  
The second main argument relates to the fact Mr H made subsequent investments in the 
loan Funding Circle promoted for the other buildings on the site in 2017. Funding Circle say 
this brings into question Mr Hs claims that his decision to invest was based on the 2015 sale 
price and also what he has said about his understanding of how the security was split across 
both developments. Funding Circle, say Mr H is likely to have understood from the IR for the 
loan on the other buildings there were two separate developments on the same site, funded 
by separate limited companies, with separate security across the two developments. It 
questions if Mr H didnt understand this and believed the loan for the development building 
held a first legal charge over the whole site, why he didnt raise any concerns about how this 
would impact his position as an investor before he decided to invest in the second loan.
Ive considered this point and also taken into account Mr Hs comments on his 
understanding when making his decision to invest in the second loan. He says when he first 
invested in the loan on the development property in May 2016, he relied on what the IR said 
as accurate, then later when he invested in the other loan in 2017 in the same way he relied 
on the IR to be truthful and on that basis invested. He says when he made the 2017 
investment, he didnt re-read the 2016 loan IR to scrutinize it for misrepresentations. He says 
he invested in well over 100 loans with Funding Circle, so doesnt think he can be expected 
to recall details of every previous loan document hes read. He says when he became aware 
of the problems with the loan, he later complained in about 2019. This was around the same 
time his wife became concerned over a similar investment she made into the loan on the 
development property. 
Again, I understand the argument that Funding Circle is putting forward here to say Mr H 
would have invested despite the unclear information Ive identified. Its not possible that 
viewing the second loan IR would have prevented Mr H from investing in the first, but it could 
have led him to question his understanding of the security on the first loan sooner. I accept it 
is possible Mr H could have drawn a link between the security of the two loans, but I cant 
say it is clearly obvious that he should have. The investments were made several months 
part  around nine months between the first investment into each of the loans. The 
information in the second IR also doesnt provide any clarity on securities held across the 
site and various buildings. I also take Mr Hs point that he had invested in a large number of 
loans on the platform, so recollection of individual IRs after the decision to invest may have been difficult. I need to decide whether it is reasonable to question why Mr H didnt raise his 
concerns sooner without the benefit of hindsight. Mr H says his understanding came from 
when wife investigated the failure of the loan and researched the security when funds didnt 
look like being repaid. In my view, the fact Mr H didnt query the security when he invested in 
the second loan doesnt mean is arguments made on this complaint are unreliable or made 
with hindsight.
Overall, the question of whether Mr H would likely have still invested, but for the failings Ive 
identified, is finely balanced. But clear information about the value of the security is 
something that Im satisfied would have been very important to his decision to invest. Im 
satisfied a reduction in his understanding of the value of this would be a significant factor.  
Having considered the arguments put forward, Ive reached the conclusion that this would 
have made a difference and had Mr H had clearer information about the first charge security, 
I think he would have made a different decision and not invested.  
Mr H has made other arguments why he believes Funding Circle failed to provide clear 
information and also failed to manage the loan correctly contributing to the losses he 
suffered. I havent needed to reach a conclusion on these points - because - for the reasons 
explained above - Ive found a reason why the complaint should be upheld. 
To confirm, for the reasons described above, I find that Funding Circle failed to provide Mr H 
with clear, fair and not misleading information when promoting this loan. But for these 
failings, I dont think Mr H would have invested in this loan. I uphold this complaint. 
As Ive reached the finding that Mr H would not have invested in this loan, I next need to 
decide what she would have done with the money he invested. I think it likely that he would 
have invested in further crowdfunding opportunities. Im satisfied that he had an interest in 
using Funding Circles platform as a way of seeking a return on his money. Its difficult to 
know exactly what other loans he would have invested in  as that would depend on what 
other loans were available. 
Having carefully considered all the available information and evidence, I think the fairest way 
to compensate Mr H is to assume a rate of return that is equal to average return on loans of 
a similar risk profile on Funding Circles platform. I say this because Im satisfied that he 
would have continued to invest on the platform, but I take the view that he would have 
invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would have done differently 
but loans of the same risk rating is a good starting point. I am satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Hs circumstances when he invested. 
Mr H says it is reasonable to say he would have invested alternatively on the platform and 
achieved returns of 7%. He says this is based on information provided by Funding Circle for 
property loans in April 2017. 
Mr Hs proposal isnt completely unreasonable  particularly if Funding Circle verify the 7% 
returns for property loans is correct. But in my view a more accurate assumption would be to 
use a methodology of comparing loans in the same risk banding when deciding what he is 
most likely to have invested in. If Funding Circle is unable to calculate returns on the same 
risk banding at the time of investment, then as an alternative it can use the 7% proposal that 
Mr H has put forward. Putting things right
To compensate Mr H fairly, Funding Circle must: 
-calculate how much Mr H has received back from his initial investment into the loan - 
including any interest and funds that have been recovered and returned to him (A) - 
the actual value; 
-then calculate how much Mr H wouldve received had he received an *average rate 
of return for A+ rated loans** (excluding the loan subject to this complaint) across the 
platform from the date he invested in the tranches of the loan until the date in 
September 2017 when Funding Circle changed its terms (the end date) *** (B) - the 
fair value. 
If B is greater than A, Funding Circle should pay Mr H the difference. It should add additional 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on any loss from the end date to the date of 
settlement. If A is greater than B, then Mr H hasnt suffered a financial loss and there will be 
no financial compensation to pay. 
* The average return means the net return  so incorporates positive performing loans and 
any default rates. 
** If Funding Circle is unable to calculate the average rate of returns for A+ rate loans, it can 
use the 7% rate Mr H has proposed. 
*** Funding Circle has confirmed Mr H stopped investing in the platform when it introduced 
new terms in September 2017, I think its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have invested 
further on the platform after this date, so any loss should be crystallised from this point. 
Finally, I have considered the impact on Mr H from how Funding Circle has dealt with 
request for clarity about this loan.   While perusing the matter Mr H faced uncertainty about 
the return of his investment and he has spent considerable time seeking information to 
understand the position of the investment. This isnt something he would have needed to do 
but for the failings Ive identified that led to him making this investment. Im conscious that 
any investment in a crowdfunding platform isnt guaranteed to be successful and there is 
always a risk to capital. But taking into account the impact of all of this I direct Funding Circle 
to pay Mr H £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Funding Circle Ltd 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman