DRN-3473232
The complaint
Mr R says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, irresponsibly lent
to him.
What happened
Mr R applied for a catalogue shopping account in August 2015. Shop Direct accepted his
application and gave him an initial credit limit of £1,000. The credit limit was increased to 
£1,300 in November 2015 and to £2,050 in March 2016.
Mr R says he was struggling financially at the time and Shop Direct failed to properly assess 
his circumstances before lending.
Our investigator found that Shop Direct had lent irresponsibly to Mr R. She found Shop 
Directs checks showed signs that the credit would most likely be unaffordable for Mr R.
Shop Direct disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the
complaint was passed to me. It said the adverse data on Mr Rs file was historic and more 
recent information suggested he had recovered financially. And his excellent account 
management over the life of the account supports this view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Prior to providing credit to Mr R, Shop Direct carried out a credit check using a credit
reference agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. And for the credit 
limit increases Shop Direct assessed the spending and payment activity on Mr Rs account 
on a monthly basis. The credit limit increases were set using that information.
Shop Direct has told us there were no signs the credit was unaffordable based on the 
checks it carried out. It feels whilst there was evidence Mr R had financial difficulties 
historically, his situation was now stable. 
It has shared the results of the checks it carried out and having reviewed them I dont think 
Shop Direct got the assurances it need that the credit offered would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr R before deciding to lend. Ill explain why.
On the credit check Shop Direct completed when Mr R applied for the account it could see 
he had missed payments twice in the last 24 months, but more crucially Mr R had £9,130 of 
debt registered against him as County Court Judgments (CCJ) in the previous six years. 
Shop Direct says its checks showed the CCJ(s) was over three years old and Mr R was no 
longer having financial difficulties. But Im not satisfied Shop Direct got the reassurances it 
need that Mr Rs finances were now stable. It hasnt evidenced that it looked into the CCJ in 
any detail and Mr Rs testimony tells us that this debt(s) wasnt settled until 2020. So I find 
the lenders conclusion that Mr Rs finances were stable in August 2015 to be assumptive, 
and not a responsible basis on which to lend.  Based on the available evidence I think there 
was a risk any credit might not be sustainably affordable for Mr R.
I have carefully considered Shop Directs comments about how Mr R managed his account 
and how that demonstrates he was able to repay the borrowing in a reasonable period of 
time. But it does not know how Mr R funded his repayments, so I find its conclusion that they 
were sustainable to be incomplete and inconclusive. It follows this argument does not 
change my overall conclusion.
I think Shop Direct was wrong to lend to Mr R. And as I find Shop Direct should not have 
opened an account for Mr R, it logically follows that I dont think it should have gone on to 
offer either of the credit limit increases.
 
Putting things right  what Shop Direct needs to do
Mr R should pay the cash price for any goods he has kept. But I dont think Mr R should 
have to pay any interest or charges, so Shop Direct should:
Remove all interest and charges.
Work out how much Mr R would have owed after the above adjustments. Any 
repayments Mr R made should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to
Mr R along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment
to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr R no longer owes any money,
then all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the
credit file from August 2015.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange an
affordable payment plan with Mr R for the outstanding amount. If the debt
was sold to a third party, Shop Direct must either repurchase the debt or liaise with
the debt owner to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Mr R has
cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed from the credit file
.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
My final decision
I ma upholding Mr Rs complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, 
must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman