DRN-3900068
The complaint
Ms Vs complaint is about a secured loan she has with Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited 
(SPML). She is unhappy that after paying the loan for more than 16 years, she owes more 
than the amount she borrowed due to the high interest rate, interest charged on the arrears, 
fees and charges.
What happened
In the spring of 2005 Ms V took out secured loan of £25,500 over a term of 25 years. The 
interest rate was 12% per year and the contractual monthly instalment (CMI) was £268.57. 
Around six months later, Ms V appears to have started having difficulty making the payments 
and the account went into arrears. Although the level of arrears reduced at times, the arrears 
balance was never cleared. 
In the autumn of 2009 Ms V wrote to SPML to explained that she had become a full-time 
carer and as such, she couldnt afford the full monthly payment. She said that she was 
worried that the arrears and the interest on the account would become uncontrollable. She 
asked for its help to reduce her payments or payments or to freeze the interest until she was 
able to afford the payments again. Ms V also mentioned that a family member would be 
trying to help her to pay the loan. It doesnt appear that SPML took any action at this time or 
responded to the letter. 
Subsequently, SPML applied to the courts for a possession order. A suspended possession 
order was granted and in June 2011 it instructed its solicitors to apply for a warrant for 
possession to evict Ms V from her home because an agreement for the arrears to be cleared 
hadnt been reached. SPML told her around that time that she needed to pay more than the 
CMI in order to repay the mortgage by the end of the term  around £314 each month. It 
appears that a payment arrangement was agreed as further legal action wasnt pursued and, 
between her payments and those from the department of work and pensions (DWP), more 
than the CMI was paid. The arrears were repaid, and a prepayment credit was built up.
In the spring of 2015 Ms V complained to SPML about the rate of interest that was being 
applied to the loan and that the balance of the loan hadnt reduced. SPML responded to the 
complaint in a letter dated 18 March 2015. It explained that the loan balance hadnt reduced 
as it should have because Ms V hadnt made the payments she should have. This meant 
that fees had been applied and intertest had accrued on the arrears balance. It explained 
that it was not able, under the terms and conditions, to increase the monthly payment, but it 
had written to Ms V in 2011 to explain that she needed to make additional payments to deal 
with the arrears. SPML highlighted that the interest rate had been clear on the 
documentation Ms V had signed at the time of taking the loan, and so it had been charged 
correctly.
The DWP wrote to SPML twice in May 2016 telling it that it was stopping the existing 
payments from 24 April 2016 and again telling that it would start to pay a different amount 
from the following day. SPML informed Ms V what it had been told at that time. However, the 
last payments from the DWP was received in May 2016. From that point onwards, Ms Vs 
monthly payments were less than the amount of interest being charged on the loan. This 
meant that the overpayment balance was used up and Ms V ceased to pay anything toward 
the capital owed and the overall amount she owed initially increased by around £20 each 
month. 
Ms V complained about the interest on the account again in early 2021. SPML responded in 
a letter dated 9 March 2021. It again explained that interest was charged on the entire 
outstanding balance and so, if there were arrears on the account, more interest would be 
charged. This would mean that the CMI would need to be increased or it would not be repaid 
on time. It was confirmed that SPML had previously written to Ms V to explain that she would 
need to increase her CMI due to the arrears on the account, or it wouldnt be paid off by the 
end of the term. It said that the account had been serviced in line with the terms and 
conditions, and so it was not upholding the complaint. That said, it had now decided to 
reduce the interest rate to 0% for the remaining term of the loan.
On 17 March 2021 SMPL wrote to Ms V and confirmed that due to it having reduced the 
interest rate to zero going forward, she would only need to pay £258.85 each month to clear 
the balance by the end of the term. This was round £10 less than Ms V had been paying to 
the loan. She chose to reduce the monthly payment.
Following the complaint being referred to this service SPML objected to us considering the 
matter of the interest rate and accrual on the loan. This was because it had sent Ms V a final 
response letter on that issue in 2015 and also it was satisfied that she would have known 
about the interest rate since 2005.
One of my ombudsman colleagues concluded that we could consider Ms Vs complaint 
about the interest rate and charges applied to the loan for the period after SPMLs final 
response letter of 18 March 2015. However, no new charges were applied to the account 
after this date, although there was still one charge from the 2011 legal action outstanding 
after that date. 
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint. She concluded that in 
May 2016, SPML should have contacted Ms V about the loan payments when the DWP 
stopped making payments and the interest was more than she was paying. She considered 
that it could have done more to assist Ms V at that time, given it was clear that the loan 
balance was going to increase. When SMPL reviewed the situation in early 2021, it had 
stopped charging interest, and the investigator concluded that this should have happened 
from April 2016. In relation to charges that were applied due to legal action in 2011 should 
be removed from the account from the point the arrears were cleared. 
Ms V accepted the investigators conclusions. SPML didnt. It said that it couldnt increase 
the CMI and from 2011, with the help of the DWP, the loan was being paid as it should have 
been and the arrears were dealt with. When the DWP payments were stopped, Ms V didnt 
contact it to tell it that she was struggling with the payments and as such, it didnt consider 
that there was cause to retrospectively review the account. When Ms V raised concerns 
about the loan account and affordability, SPML took action and stopped charging interest. As 
for the charges from 2011, it said that it was right they remained on the account.  
Our investigator considered what SMPL had to say. She suggested a change to the redress 
she was recommending. That the interest be reduced to zero at a point what would mean 
that Ms V would repay the loan at the end of the original term, assuming she continued to 
pay the same monthly payment as she was at that time. 
SPML didnt agree and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration.I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we look at our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with my ombudsman colleague that we are only able to consider the 
interest rate and charges applied to the loan after the final response letter of 18 March 2015. 
This means that I am unable to comment on the charges applied due to the legal action in 
2011.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From 2011 consistent payments were being made to the loan and, with the addition of 
payments from the DWP, the arrears on the account was reducing and, eventually, a credit 
amount built up. In the circumstances, I dont consider that SPML would have had any 
reason to believe in March 2018, that Ms V was still in financial difficulties. As such, I dont 
consider that before May 2016 it would be reasonable to find that it should have done 
anything to investigate Ms Vs circumstances or to offer assistance. 
I am also satisfied that SMPL communicated the changes to the DWP payments to Ms V in 
May 2016. However, when the expected payments were not received from May 2016 
onwards, and the amount being paid was less than the interest being charged on the loan, it 
doesnt appear that SMPL took any proactive action. While it is reasonable that if the benefit 
Ms V had been receiving had been stopped, she would have been informed by the DWP 
directly, it isnt clear that she would have known the impact this would have on the loan. 
While this was not a regulated loan and so the Financial Conduct Authoritys requirements 
didnt apply to the administration of the loan, SPML still had a duty of care toward its 
customers. In knowing that Ms V was in a position whereby the situation with her loan would 
deteriorate unless something was done, I can only consider that SPML failed in that duty by 
not contacting her. 
Had SMPL contacted Ms V in 2016 it is not clear what would have happened. However, in 
such circumstances we would consider a lender would be treating their customer fairly if it 
reduced the interest rate to a level that would meant the payments the customer could afford 
to pay would repay the loan by the end of the term. That didnt happen in 2016, but when 
Ms V complained in 2021 SPML reduced the interest rate to zero. This has meant that Ms V 
now needs to make a monthly payment of less than the amount she was paying to the loan 
in 2016 to repay the loan by the end of the term. I can only find that offer to be entirely 
reasonable in the circumstances.
SPML accepted my conclusions.
Ms V said she didnt agree with the change in stance I had taken on the complaint. She 
commented that SPML had acted quickly in 2021 when she had threatened to refer the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but she had been unable to do that at an 
earlier date because of her caring duties. She said SPML stopping charging interest from 
2021 was no consolation because she was left to pay for the rest of the term an extortionate 
amount of interest, after all the interest SPML had earned from her already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or comment I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
However, I would make the following comment. While I understand that it was difficult for 
Ms V to find time to discuss her loan with SPML, I was not criticising her for not doing so. 
Indeed, it was SPML that I concluded should have taken proactive action in 2016.
While I understand Ms Vs disappointment in my conclusions, the aim of redress if it is 
awarded by this service is to place a consumer in as close as possible to the financial 
position they would have been in, had the mistake made by the business not happened. As I 
set out in my provisional decision, that would not have been to have stopped charging 
interest in 2016 and, the action SPML took in 2021 has placed her in a better position that 
she otherwise would have been in. I say this as if she were to maintain the payments 
detailed in the loan agreement, she would repay the loan before the end of the term. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, as the offer Southern Pacific Mortgage 
Limited made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman