DRN-3260009
The complaint
Ms B, Ms W and Mr B complain that Bupa Insurance Limited hasnt paid their travel 
insurance claim for additional flight costs.
What happened
Ms B, Ms W and Ms Bs son, Mr B, have travel insurance with Bupa which is provided to 
them through their employer. 
In late January 2020 they travelled abroad, with the intention of remaining there for three 
months, returning in April 2020. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 23 March 
2020, the FCDO instructed all UK citizens travelling abroad to return home. 
Ms B, Ms W and Mr B contacted Bupa to discuss what they should do - they were advised 
Bupa would cover flights to come home early as long as they were for the same level of fare 
originally purchased. They brought forward the date of their return flight home to 27 March 
2020. This was at an additional cost of approximately £150 per person.
Unfortunately, before they could return home, Ms W became unwell and says she was 
advised not to travel. And soon after Ms B also suffered an injury. As a result, they did not 
return home on the rescheduled flights - they ended up extending their stay and came home 
later than planned, for which a claim under the medical expenses section of the policy has 
been submitted separately.
Ms B, Ms W and Mr B made a claim for the cost of the rescheduled flights to Bupa, but it 
said it couldnt consider these costs whilst the medical claim was ongoing.
Unhappy with this response, Ms B, Ms W and Mr B complained to Bupa and brought the 
matter to this service. Our investigator looked into the issue and found that the complaint 
should be upheld. She said that the claim for the additional flight costs was separate to the 
subsequent claim for medical expenses and was under a separate section of the policy. So, 
she didnt think it was fair for Bupa to refuse to consider this claim. She recommended that 
Bupa pay the claim for the rescheduling of the flights.
Ms B, Ms W and Mr B accepted our investigators opinion, but Bupa didnt. As no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned above, a claim under the medical expenses section of the policy has also 
been made  this is not part of this complaint. During the handling of that claim, Bupa 
queried the employment status of another person who was also on this trip, who is named 
on the policy documentation as an insured employee. They also incurred additional 
expenses to change their flight. Bupa has queried if they meet the required criteria to be 
eligible for the insurance cover. As this persons eligibility status is in question, the costs 
relating to that individual have been removed from this particular complaint. Ill therefore only 
refer to the claim for the additional flight costs for Ms B, Ms W and Mr B in this decision.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms B, Ms W and Mr Bs 
complaint.
The policy provides cover for amending or cutting short the trip for certain listed events. The 
relevant part of the policy says the following:
Section 1  Cancelling, amending or cutting short your trip
This section of the policy sets out the cover we provide if you need to cancel, amend 
or cut your trip short.
The most we will pay is:
up to £5,000 including up to £500 for any booked, pre-paid excursions.
What is covered
We will reimburse you if you suffer a financial loss for the unused portion of your 
booked and paid travel and accommodation costs, either in full or on a pro-rata basis, 
if:
you cancel before commencing your trip, or
you amend your trip, or
you cut your trip short and return home early during the insurance period due 
to any of the following reasons:
1.10 FCO travel advice: after the time you purchased your policy or booked your
trip, whichever is the later, the FCO advises against all, or all but essential
travel to your intended destination.
What is not covered (continued)
k. If you amend your trip, we will only pay costs for the first change to your trip for 
that reason. We will not pay more than the cost of the original trip for any claim, this 
also includes where a policy is amended and then subsequently cancelled.
Claiming under the Cancelling, amending or cutting short your trip section
If you have to cut your trip short, we will pay either for the unused return travel ticket 
or the cost of purchasing a new travel ticket on the same class of travel (whichever is 
greater) up to the policy section limit.
The FCDO advice on 23 March 2020 was for UK citizens to return home. Ms B, Ms W and 
Mr B amended their original flight dates to cut their trip short at an extra cost. My 
understanding is that they have not requested the reimbursement of the unused return travel 
ticket from April to be reimbursed in this claim, just the additional expenses to bring the flight 
forward. From reviewing the policy terms above, Im satisfied that Ms B, Ms W and Mr B 
have a valid claim for these additional costs.Ive noted that Bupa has referred to the Catastrophe section of the policy when considering 
this claim, but this only applies to costs incurred to return home if you cannot remain at your 
accommodation due to damage caused by a catastrophe. As there wasnt any damage to 
the accommodation, Im not persuaded the claim would be considered under this section.
Ms B, Ms W and Mr B didnt in fact return home early  due to medical reasons that 
subsequently occurred  but Bupa advised that it couldnt consider the claim for these 
additional flight costs until the claim for the medical expenses had been considered, and it 
needed information from the treating doctor about whether they were fit to fly home. But 
what happened afterwards is irrelevant to the claim being made for the additional costs to 
amend the flights and Im not persuaded that it is fair or reasonable for this aspect to be 
placed on hold whilst a claim for a separate event, under another section of the policy, is 
being reviewed. 
  
This incident occurred in March 2020 and as I understand it, Ms B, Ms W and Mr B finally 
returned home to the UK in the summer of the same year. I think there has been enough 
time for Bupa to have reviewed the claim for this additional travel cost since they returned 
home, and either pay the cost or decline the claim if Bupa didnt feel it was covered by the 
policy terms. I dont think it is fair for this to be held up any longer. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Bupa needs to now settle this claim.
Putting things right
Bupa needs to do the following:
Pay the claim for Ms B, Ms W and Mr Bs additional flight costs incurred in March 
2020, taking into account any relevant policy limits or excesses that may apply;
Pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount from the from the date the claim 
was made until the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Bupa Insurance Limited needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Mr B and 
Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman