DRN-4158496
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the way Vodafone Limited administered fixed sum loan 
agreements taken out to buy a mobile phone. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so Im not going to cover 
off everything again in detail. But, in summary, Miss A wanted to upgrade and buy a new 
phone using a fixed sum loan agreement from Vodafone. She went to the store in July 2022 
to collect the order but there was a problem with it from Vodafones side. I understand she 
was told shed need to wait for the order to be cancelled before she could reorder the phone. 
Miss A placed another order and at this point she was unhappy the whole process had taken 
a couple of weeks. Because of the issue Vodafone offered to apply £55 to Miss As account 
when she collected her handset to say sorry for the inconvenience. I think Miss A was also 
unhappy shed received a text saying she hadnt paid her bill. 
Miss A was unhappy the second phone wasnt ready straight away. And was also concerned 
about the impact on her credit file. It looks like there was a problem with the second order as 
well because of an issue with the cancellation of the first order. By this point, it had been 
about three weeks since shed ordered the initial phone. I think the problem with the order 
also impacted Miss As airtime services. From looking at Vodafones notes, it looks like the 
issue stemmed from an agent returning Miss As telephone number instead of moving her 
back to her old plan. 
Towards the end of July 2022, it looks like Vodafone reconnected Miss As number and 
increased its compensation offer towards her airtime account to £150. Vodafones notes say 
Miss A accepted this as a resolution and said shed call back to upgrade her handset, but 
she also wanted to make sure her credit file wasnt impacted. 
Miss A spoke to Vodafone towards the end of July 2022 about upgrading and complained 
that it was showing she had money outstanding on a device plan for a phone she didnt 
have. I can see Vodafone asked internally to cancel the loan agreement on 1 August 2022. 
Miss A placed another upgrade order shortly afterwards but complained again about the 
overall service shed had with the first two upgrades. It looks like Vodafone made an offer to 
increase the discount on her airtime bill from 10% to 15%. It later increased this to 35% on 
10 August 2022.
Ive next seen Miss A spoke to Vodafone in November 2022 about bills shed received and 
queries she had about being behind on payments. Vodafone said she wasnt behind. Miss A 
called it again in February and March 2023 to discuss the overdue balance on a device plan. 
She was unhappy shed been contacted by a debt collector and that one of the orders shed 
not received hadnt been cancelled properly. 
Vodafone sent a final response to the complaint and offered to recall the device plan that 
hadnt been cancelled. It corrected the associated airtime account. It said it would remove all 
negative markers relating to the plan and offered £100 compensation. Its also apologised for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Miss A referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators said he thought the 
offer was fair. Miss A didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
the complaint quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Miss A and Vodafone that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this. 
Miss A sought to buy a phone using a fixed sum loan agreement from Vodafone. These are 
regulated consumer credit agreements. And our service is able to consider complaints 
relating to these sorts of agreements. But, as has been pointed out, Im not able to consider 
complaints that solely relate to the airtime contract Miss A has with Vodafone. So Im not 
going to be commenting on the issues Miss A had with regards to her airtime. 
I can see why Miss A was so unhappy with the problems trying to upgrade. There were two 
failed attempts and Vodafone explained that due to errors made by a number of agents and 
a lack of investigation one of the agreements went undetected. 
What this meant was that it took Miss A about a month and a half to upgrade her handset 
when it should have taken a matter of days. She had to visit the Vodafone store and make 
many calls to try to sort things out. It must have been really frustrating for her. 
Vodafone offered Miss A £150 towards her airtime and a 35% discount on her airtime bill. As 
Ive explained above, I dont have the power to consider her complaint about what happened 
with the airtime. But I think the offer Vodafone made in August 2022 in the round seems fair. 
And it looked like Miss A broadly accepted it too. 
However, things werent resolved because later Miss A found out one of the agreements 
hadnt been cancelled properly. So this led to adverse information being recorded on 
Miss As credit file and ultimately the debt was passed to a debt collector. This must have 
been worrying and frustrating for Miss A. I imagine she thought things had finally been 
resolved back in August so to later find out about the uncancelled agreement must have 
been disappointing to say the least. It took longer than it should have done to sort out. 
Miss A hasnt supplied evidence the negative information on her credit file has caused any 
financial detriment to her. So I dont need to direct Vodafone to reimburse her for financial 
losses as a result of the error. Its fair that Vodafone has agreed to cancel the agreement 
and remove record of it from her credit file. For the avoidance of doubt, it should remove all 
record of the agreement. I think its right Vodafone pay her compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience as well. And I think, in the round, taking into account what happened and 
the impact on Miss A, in addition to what was offered before, £100 on top seems fair. Im not 
going to direct it to do more. But Vodafone should make sure, to the extent its not done so 
already, it has honoured the previous offers Ive referred to in this decision.  My final decision
Vodafone Limited has offered Miss A £100 compensation and agreed to remove record of 
the fixed sum loan agreement from her credit file to settle the complaint. I think this is fair in 
all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Vodafone Limited should compensate Miss A £100 and remove 
record of the relevant fixed sum loan from her credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman