DRN-3862106
The complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax UK, has treated him unfairly in relation to 
a transaction on his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr T used his Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax UK (BOS for short) 
credit card to make payment for flights abroad. These out and return flights were for the 
festive period in December 2021 for Mr T and Mrs T. He paid approximately £1029 for these 
flights. As the departure date approached there was government guidance introduced 
regarding the pandemic and travelling to the destination country was for only essential travel 
and there were a host of further requirements if travel was to take place. Mr T and Mrs T 
didnt fly.
Mr T tried to get his money back from the Airline but was unsuccessful. The Airline pointed 
to the tickets being non-refundable and that the flights had taken place. So he complained to 
BOS.
BOS says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund him. 
It pointed to the Airlines defence - the non-refundable nature of the tickets and that the 
flights were supplied. So Mr T, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt BOS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr T remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T used his BOS credit card to pay the Airline for the flights. This means that if certain 
criteria are met BOS can have certain responsibilities to Mr T which arise from the relevant 
law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in 
certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr T to hold BOS liable for 
breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In 
essence BOS can be held responsible for a like claim as Mr T could hold the Airline. And 
consequently BOS could also rely on the same defences to such a claim as the Airline.
Mr Ts BOS credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by another company. And 
this scheme has rules which includes giving BOS an avenue for card transactions to be 
disputed with Merchants such as the Airline, namely through the Chargeback process. This 
isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on such chargebacks is the 
scheme itself and not BOS. So it is possible that BOS could take the chargeback as far as 
possible and Mr T still not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about BOS and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr T fairly. This decision isnt about the Airline, 
which isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
could BOS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr T doesnt dispute that he used his BOS credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think BOS couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr T didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
BOS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
BOS didnt raise a chargeback here. Broadly it has said it considered the matter and didnt 
consider that any such chargeback would have had a reasonable prospect of success. 
Having considered everything in the round Im satisfied that BOSs decision not to do a 
chargeback was fair in the circumstances. Im satisfied the flights were non-refundable and 
that these flight services did take place.
Mr T points to the government restrictions put in place here. But the Airline was not 
responsible for those. And the responsibility for following such restrictions is on the traveller 
not on the Airline. The flights did take place and so I dont think it would be fair to make BOS 
bear these costs here because the Airline provided the tickets and had Mr T been flying for 
purposes within the guidance he could have used the flights without hindrance. And the 
reasons for flying and compliance with government restrictions regarding entry to countries 
sits with traveller not airlines.
So having considered what happened here I think it likely that had BOS raised a 
chargeback, it would have been ultimately unsuccessful. So I can see why it considered that 
the chargeback did not have a reasonable prospect of success when it decided to not take 
the chargeback any further. So I dont think Mr T has lost out because of what BOS did in 
regard to chargeback.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met. However Im not persuaded I 
need to make a finding at this point on these requirements because for other reasons I have 
decided that BOS doesnt need to do anymore in relation to this complaint. 
For BOS to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr T which 
was untrue and that led to loss.
Ive already established that the flights took place. Hence it is clear there is no breach of 
contract as the Airline booked the flights as instructed and they were available and took 
place. Furthermore Im satisfied they were non-refundable, so no refund would be due when 
Mr T didnt fly. And so its clear that the Airline didnt breach the contract Mr T had with it as it 
supplied the tickets and wasnt responsible for the restrictions put in place. And Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence of Mr T being told by the Airline something that was untrue which he 
reasonably relied upon and which then led to his loss. So without any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract here by the Airline, BOS cannot be held to a like claim and thus doesnt 
have to refund Mr T. It is clear that Mr T has lost out here. But just because hes lost out, it doesnt mean its fair 
for BOS to bear the cost of these flights. After all Mr T was the person who chose to 
purchase non-refundable tickets. It would be unfair on BOS to have to pay out in these 
circumstances as it doesnt have responsibility for the restrictions in place because neither 
did the Airline. I appreciate the reasons why Mr T did not travel but the service was provided, 
and he could have travelled had he met the government requirements which the Airline 
wasnt responsible for. So I dont see a reason for BOS to refund him.
Mr T says the non-refundable nature of the tickets terms and conditions is not a reasonable 
term, it is very imbalanced, and I would argue that in the legal jargon it is what is called an 
unfair contract term. I wholly disagree. There are a wide variety of ticket types available to 
air passengers from the travel at any time with total flexibility type tickets which naturally 
come at a higher cost, through to the other end of the spectrum such as these non-
refundable tickets which are often less expensive. I see no persuasive evidence of Mr T 
being told these tickets were refundable when they were actually non-refundable. In short 
Im not persuaded there was material misrepresentation here. In this instance such a term is 
not unfair because there is clearly consideration here in the form of the trade-off between the 
price of tickets and their refundability. So its clearly not an unfair contract term.
Mr T points to comments made by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). But these 
comments were about airlines behaviour. Mr Ts complaint here is about BOS and how it has 
handled his dispute. And BOS is entirely allowed to defend itself using the defences 
available in the agreed contract-specifically the non-refundable nature of the tickets which Mr 
T agreed to when buying these tickets. And it is of note that the CMA were specifically 
looking at cases where vouchers were being offered instead of cash refunds. It is also of 
note that since those comments it closed its investigation concluding it could only enforce 
the law as the law stands. Mr Ts situation is different to what the CMA was talking about as 
he was not entitled to any refund of any sort as his tickets were non-refundable.
I should also note that since our Investigators conclusions on the matter Mr T hasnt 
described in any persuasive manner how BOS has made a mistake here in its approach. 
And his complaint here is about BOS and not the airline. And although clearly Mr T has lost 
out, hes not provided any persuasive reasoning as to why a party (BOS) which wasnt a 
party to the contract concerned, should bear the cost of the tickets when it hasnt done 
anything wrong in its consideration of Mr Ts dispute with the airline.
So all in all having considered everything Im satisfied Mr T bought non-refundable tickets 
and didnt fly as hed planned. I satisfied that the flights were available. And Im not 
persuaded that BOS should make any refund here.
I appreciate the reasons regarding the pandemic which meant Mr T and Mrs T wouldnt be 
able to have entered the destination country considering the nature of their trip. But that 
doesnt make it fair for BOS to have to cover the costs of these tickets which Mr T bought on 
a non-refundable basis. Mr T hasnt persuasively demonstrated what BOS did wrong or 
indeed explained how it treated him unfairly. And it would only be fair to make BOS pay if it 
had treated Mr T unfairly. But I dont think it has treated his unfairly in terms of either its 
approach to chargeback or section 75. So accordingly Mr Ts complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax UK. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman