DRN-2604426
The complaint
Mr F complains about Delisa Miller (DM) and the settlement fee they are charging him
following a successful Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr F instructed DM to pursue a PPI claim on his behalf against lender L. He
signed a Letter of Engagement (LOE) and a Letter of Authority (LOA) which allowed DM
to speak to Lender L on his behalf.
On the first LOA Mr F signed, he made amendments, adding his date of birth and a previous
address. So, DM updated the LOA and asked Mr L to sign another LOA without the 
handwritten amendments. He signed this in September 2018.
DM submitted Mr Fs claim to Lender L in December 2018. A week after DM submitted the
claim, Lender L wrote to DM explaining the LOA theyd received was invalid so they would
liaise with Mr F directly from that point. After receiving this, DM sent a new LOA for Mr F to
sign, but he didnt sign and return this.
Mr Fs claim was successful, and he received a total gross PPI refund of £10,592.50 in
January 2019. DM continued to chase Lender L for an update on the status of Mr Fs claim
and they were told in March that it had been successful, where they were provided with the
amount Mr F received. Shortly after, DM invoiced Mr F for their settlement fee of £2,542.20,
which equated to 20%+VAT. Mr F wasnt happy that DM were charging him for a settlement 
fee, so he raised a complaint.
Mr F thought hed raised the claim with Lender L directly as hed grown frustrated and having
to sign documents for DM. He thought hed explained it clearly to DM in telephone
conversations that he no longer wished to use their services. So, he felt hed completed the
work that led to the successful claim and because of this, he didnt think DM were entitled to
their fee.
DM didnt agree. They felt theyd submitted the claim to Lender L that had led to a successful
refund. They explained they had no record of Mr F cancelling the agreement and explained 
that, if Mr F had, they wouldve been entitled to invoice him for their cancellation charges. As
they felt theyd submitted the claim that had led to the refund, they felt their fee was fair and
remained payable. Mr F wasnt happy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He didnt think there was enough
evidence to show Mr F had cancelled his agreement with DM, in line with the terms and
conditions. But he didnt think Lender L had completed the work needed for the claim to be
successful as Lender L had confirmed the LOA was invalid. He thought it was likely that Mr F
wouldve had a successful claim without the involvement of DM, so he didnt think it was fair
for DM to invoice Mr F for their settlement fee. So, he thought the fees should be waived. 
Mr F agreed with this view. But DM didnt. They thought they submitted the initial claim along 
with the relevant PPI Questionnaire which had led to the successful refund. And because of 
this, they thought theyd invoiced Mr F fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. As DM didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 February 2021, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, its my intention not to 
uphold the complaint and Ill explain why. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think should be the right outcome.
Ive first considered Mr Fs comments regarding his cancellation of the agreement. Mr F has
said he cancelled this on a call in December 2018. But DM say they didnt receive a
cancellation.
Ive seen evidence that one call was held between Mr F and DM in December. So, Ive
assumed this is the call Mr F feels he cancelled the agreement. DM dispute this and say in
this call, Mr F provided answers to the PPI Questionnaire and that cancellation wasnt
discussed at all. DM havent been able to provide a recording of this call due to the time
thats elapsed since the event, so Ive had to consider what was most likely to have
happened.
The terms of the agreement Mr F signed say if the agreement is cancelled any time after the
14-day cooling off period, DM may charge a cancellation charge reasonable and
proportionate to the work that has been completed. So, I think if Mr F had cancelled the
agreement, its most likely that DM wouldve invoiced him for the costs of the work they
completed so far. And I cant see that any such invoice was raised after this call.
But what I can see is that two days after the call, DM submitted the claim to Lender L with a
completed PPI Questionnaire attached. Had Mr F cancelled the agreement, I dont think it
wouldve made sense for DM to submit this claim. Im also aware that Mr F signed the
agreement and LOAs in August and September 2018. And the claim was submitted very
soon after the call, with the questionnaire attached. Because of this, I think its most likely
that DM were waiting to complete a questionnaire with Mr F before submitting the claim.
And I think its most likely that the questionnaire was completed on this call. I dont think Mr F 
wouldve completed this questionnaire with DM if he intended to cancel the agreement so, 
because of this, I dont think its likely that he cancelled the agreement on this call. Ive seen
no evidence to show any other calls were held in December between Mr F and DM. So, Ive
no evidence to show the agreement was cancelled.
Ive also seen that DM wrote to Mr F after submitting the claim, so explain the claim process
had begun. If Mr F had intended to cancel the agreement, I wouldve expected him to raise
his concerns about this with DM. But I cant see that he did. Because of the above, I think
the agreement was still in force when Lender L upheld Mr Fs claim and issued a PPI refund.
But even if the agreement hadnt been cancelled, I still need to be satisfied the work DM
completed led to a successful refund for me to say their settlement fee is fair. Mr F has said
he completed the claim with Lender L directly, although he has said he contacted Lender L
in February 2019, which was after the PPI refund was awarded. Mr F has also provided a
letter he received from Lender L, which confirmed the LOA DM sent them was deemed to be
invalid and he feels this is enough to show DM didnt complete the work necessary. But I
dont think this is the case.
Ive seen no evidence to show the work Mr F completed with Lender L directly. That being
said, I think Lender L may have contacted him directly to discuss the claim in more detailafter theyd received the details from DM. But even if they did, Id have expected Mr F to
have referred Lender L to DM, as I dont think the agreement had been cancelled and I think
he wouldve been aware of DMs involved. If Mr F proceeded to liaise directly with Lender L,
I think this was his own choice to make.
I dont dispute the LOA held the incorrect date of birth for Mr F. So, I can understand why
Lender L would deem the LOA to be invalid. But crucially, I dont think this impacts DMs
right to charge Mr F a settlement fee for the refund he received.
Mr F signed the LOA DM sent to Lender L. In doing so, he was agreeing that the information
included was correct. I appreciate this was the second LOA he was asked to sign, and why
this wouldve been frustrating. But I wouldve expected Mr F to raise this error before he
signed it. And he didnt. And even though the LOA was invalid, DM still sent Lender L the
claim. This notified Lender L of the accounts Mr F was claiming against. It also provided Mr
Fs reasons as to why he felt the PPI was mis-sold within the questionnaire. So, while
Lender L took the decision not to liaise with DM after this point, I dont think this meant DM
completed no work of value.
Im also mindful of the fact DM asked Mr F to sign a new, correct LOA but Ive seen no
evidence to show he completed this and returned it. By not returning it, Mr F prevented DM
from being able to complete any further work with Lender L on his behalf.
As Ive seen no evidence to show additional information Mr F provided to Lender L, I think its
reasonable for me to assume Lender L upheld the claim based on the information DM sent. I
think this is supported by Lender L providing DM with the correct refund information when
DM spoke to them in March 2019. If DM had no involvement in the claim whatsoever, I
wouldnt have expected Lender L to release this information to them. And Im satisfied they
did this as the settlement fee DM is charging is 20%+VAT of the gross amount Mr F was
awarded. I dont think DM wouldve been able to obtain the correct amounts without being
told by Lender L.
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Mr F wouldve received a refund without
the involved of DM, and the work they completed. Because of this, I think DM were
reasonable to charge Mr F a settlement fee in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. And for this reason, I dont think they need to do anything further.
DM accepted my provisional decision and provided no further comments. But Mr F didnt. Mr 
F pointed to Lender Ls decision letter, where they upheld his PPI claim. Within this, they 
explained a previous claim under reference number ending *097 had been closed and that 
the PPI refund had been paid under the new reference number, ending *148.
Mr F explained his belief that the claim DM submitted on his behalf had been opened under 
the claim reference *097 and that the successful claim under reference *148 had only been 
opened when he spoke to Lender L directly after cancelling the services of DM, on 18 
December 2018. Because of this, he thought the refund had been issued on a claim where 
DM had no involvement and for this reason, he didnt think the fee should be payable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial conclusions.
Mr F has provided his explanation regarding the closure of claim reference *097 and why he 
believes this showed DM completed no work of value. But I dont agree. Ive seen Lender L wrote to DM on 12 December 2018, explaining a claim had been received from them but 
without a valid LOA, which I discussed in my provisional decision. This letter used the claim 
reference *148, which is the same reference Lender L used when offering Mr F a PPI refund. 
And crucially, this was six days before Mr F says he cancelled the services of DM and spoke 
to Lender L directly.
Ive also seen an e-mail from Lender L which confirms the claim was first received on 10 
December and this included the LOA from DM. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume 
this contact was from DM. This date was also eight days before Mr F has said he spoke to 
Lender L directly. 
So, Im unable to confirm why Lender L referred to the claim reference *097 and where this 
was generated from. But I dont think this was generated from any contact DM made. Im 
satisfied DM submitted the claim, and this created the claim reference *148, which Lender L 
eventually used when upholding Mr Fs claim and awarding him a PPI refund. So, Im 
satisfied it was DMs submission that led to the successful claim. And because Ive seen no 
evidence to show Mr F cancelled his agreement with DM, I think DM have acted fairly and 
reasonably when invoicing Mr F for their settlement fee, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the agreement. Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
But I am aware its been some time since Mr F received the PPI refund. So, Id expect DM to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F if this is required.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Delisa Miller.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman