DRN-3570269
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Experian Limited merged a close family members details into her own 
credit file. Mrs A says this has caused her a financial loss. 
What happened
Mrs A has told us she was looking to apply for a mortgage of £15,000 in order to move 
home. The available submissions show mortgage related soft searches were carried out on 
Mrs As credit file around September/ October 2021. 
In November 2021 Mrs A was declined a mortgage application with a high-street bank, and it 
was following this she learned a family members default was appearing on her credit file. 
Mrs A put any mortgage applications on hold to resolve the matter and she complained to 
Experian. On 26 November 2021 Experian let Mrs A know theyd reviewed her complaint 
and set out their final response on the matter. 
Experian acknowledged and apologised that it appeared  due to similar initials and details  
Mrs As family members information had wrongly appeared on Mrs As credit file. Experian 
confirmed they had therefore corrected the data and they offered Mrs A £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience the matter had caused. Experian also said that to consider a higher level 
of compensation Mrs A would need to provide evidence showing the mortgage had been 
declined solely because of the family members information showing on Mrs As credit file. 
Mrs A didnt accept what Experian had said and she brought her complaint to our service. 
After Mrs As complaint came to our service, Experian increased their offer to £150 total. 
Our investigator considered Mrs As complaint and explained to Mrs A why they didnt think it 
would be fair to say Experian should pay Mrs A the £15,000 she was looking for as 
compensation. The investigator explained to Mrs A there were too many variables to 
consider which meant it was not possible to know for certain if Mrs A would have been 
approved for a mortgage, but for Experians error. So they said the £150 offered by Experian 
was fair. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigator. Mrs A said the £15,000 she was seeking was 
reasonable, and the only reason shed been declined a mortgage was due to the default 
wrongly showing on her credit file which was due to Experians negligence. Mrs A further 
explained the error had caused her to delay buying a property and this meant property prices 
had gone up and she now needed to borrow more (£25,000) to purchase something. 
As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A and Experian should note that while Ive only set out a summary of events and 
submissions above, I have reviewed everything that has been provided by both parties. And 
Mrs A should note I am not obliged to respond to each and every point raised, so in my 
reasoning below I have referred to the matters I feel are relevant to the heart of this 
complaint.  
After reviewing everything, I agree with our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
After looking at everything that has happened I can see how upsetting and frustrating this 
matter has been for Mrs A. My decision is not to take away from anything Mrs A has said, 
but I must consider what is fair and reasonable to resolve this complaint. 
Experian has accepted Mrs As family members details should not have appeared on      
Mrs As credit file. So there is nothing further for me to consider here as Experian accepts 
that something went wrong. Whats left for me to decide is what is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to put things right. 
I have noted Mrs As strength of feeling that she was refused her mortgage application 
because of the default being incorrectly reported on her credit file, and this meant she lost 
out on buying properties. However, Ive not seen enough to agree this was the case. 
Theres no doubt a default on a credit file would raise a flag with a lender considering a 
mortgage, but I can see from the email exchanges and information submitted by Mrs A 
(involving her broker) that the high-street lender had identified the default, but also said they 
would be happy to look at things again if Mrs A would obtain a further report. It appears the 
high-street lender emailed the broker to say this on 15 November 2021. 
Mrs A obtained the additional report which confirmed it was only Experian wrongly reporting 
the information. But she has not mentioned whether she or her broker later contacted the 
high-street lender again to let them know the default did not belong to Mrs A. Experians 
letter from 26 November 2021 would have supported this. So I think its possible Mrs A could 
have gone back to the high-street lender within a reasonable time to see if theyd review her 
application. 
That said, there is still no guarantee that the high-street lender would have agreed the 
lending for Mrs A, or that Mrs As purchase of a property would have been successful. 
I say this because Im mindful that applying for a mortgage and the mortgage process itself 
is complex and can involve several different parties and considerations - successful 
completion of a mortgage is dependent on a number of variables. 
For example, while someone may be successful in gaining an Agreement in Principle (AIP) 
or Decision in Principle (DIP) this is not a guarantee that a mortgage will be approved  the 
lender still needs to go through several of their own checks and balances before agreeing to 
lend, and checking someones credit file would only form part of those checks and balances. 
Other variables associated with a mortgage application would be the need to have a 
successful valuation of the property  any problems with the security being proposed could 
lead to a lender withdrawing their agreement to lend. Solicitors searches could also 
potentially find problems with a property which could prevent the purchase going ahead. And 
of course, given there can be several parties involved in a property chain, theres always the 
possibility that one of the other parties involved could have found problems with their own 
applications or properties and had to withdraw therefore causing a delay leading to the need 
for new applications or breaking the chain. Or, given the market, someone else may have 
provided a late, preferable offer to the sellers causing Mrs A to lose the property. Mrs A has noted in her submissions that buying a property is one of the most stressful things 
someone can do. I find it difficult to disagree with Mrs A on this point  and I would note that 
some of the reasons it is so stressful is because of the variables involved which Ive 
described above. 
Our services role is to decide what is a fair and reasonable resolution in all the 
circumstances of an individual case. And where its identified that something has gone 
wrong, we try  as far as is reasonably possible  to put someone back in the position they 
would have been in had the error not occurred. This is not always an easy thing to do, 
particularly when in cases such as Mrs As complaint, there is no certainty about what may 
have happened had the error not occurred. 
Mrs A is seeking the £15,000 she was initially looking for her mortgage as compensation. 
But for me to say it would be fair and reasonable for Experian to pay this or increase the 
compensation they have already offered, I would need to be satisfied that Mrs As mortgage 
and inability to buy a property were solely rooted in incorrect information being reported on 
her credit file. And Ive not seen enough for me to fairly conclude this was the case.
So, while I do realise this will not be the outcome Mrs A was hoping for, given there are too 
many variables here to know with any reasonable certainty what may have happened if 
Experian had not caused this error, Im unable to say that Mrs As mortgage application and 
her attempt to buy a new property, did not succeed solely due to the information wrongly 
reported on her credit file. 
Experian offered Mrs A £150 to recognise the upset and inconvenience this caused her. In 
the circumstances I think this is fair. Mrs A raised her concerns with Experian in November 
2021 and in the same month Experian confirmed theyd corrected her credit file. Mrs A was 
then in possession of a letter from Experian supporting the default was not attributable to her 
 which I think is something she could then have taken to any lender in support of a 
mortgage application if needed. 
Putting things right
Experian Limited should pay Mrs A £150.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mrs As complaint is upheld and I think 
Experians offer of £150 to put things right is fair in the circumstances - so if they have not 
already done so, Experian Limited should pay Mrs A £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman