DRN-3564047
The complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline their claim 
for subsidence damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Aviva has declined their claim for subsidence damage to a 
concrete pad in their garden. They say they were told on more than one occasion, by agents 
of Aviva, that their policy would cover them for subsidence damage anywhere within the 
boundary of their property.
Aviva has declined the claim based on an exclusion in the policy which requires subsidence 
damage to the home, in order for subsidence damage to other areas of the property to be 
covered. Aviva accepts Mr and Mrs A were given incorrect information which caused a loss 
of expectation and has offered £100 compensation for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A made their claim for subsidence damage in February 2022. However, they say 
they enquired about the scope of their cover on several occasions prior to this and were 
incorrectly told by Aviva that subsidence damage anywhere within the boundary of their 
property would be covered, under the subsidence section of their policy. Aviva doesnt 
dispute that Mr and Mrs S were given incorrect information, which is why it has offered 
compensation for the loss of expectation.
When considering how to put things right, Ive considered what would have happened had 
everything gone as it should have done. Ive also thought about the impact the incorrect 
information had on Mr and Mrs A.
Mr and Mrs As policy includes an exclusion under the subsidence cover which states:
Damage to any part of the buildings except the home unless we accept (or have 
already accepted) a claim for subsidence, heave or landslip damage to the home.
Home is defined in the policy as:
The house or flat and its outbuildings (including garages), at the address shown in 
your schedule, all used for domestic purposes only.
In this case, the damage affected a concrete pad in the garden of Mr and Mrs As property. I 
dont consider that this concrete pad amounts to a part of the home, as defined by the policy. 
So, as theres no evidence of subsidence damage to the home, I think Avivas decision that 
the above exclusion applies is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
If everything had gone as it should have done, Mr and Mrs A would have been advised from 
the outset that subsidence to the concrete pad would only be covered in the event of 
subsidence damage to the home. This means regardless of the incorrect information; they 
would be in the same position, with respect to the claim decision. So, I dont consider that it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold Aviva to the incorrect information it provided by making it 
accept or settle the claim  because the claim is something that would never have been 
covered, based on the applicable policy terms.
That said, I agree that Mr and Mrs A have received poor service from Aviva  the incorrect 
advice  and that this has caused them a loss of expectation. But taking into account Avivas 
offer of compensation, I think it has already done enough to put things right. So, although my 
decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, Ill not be making any 
additional award against Aviva in this case.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman