DRN-4218543
The complaint
E, a limited company complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
handled its international money transfer requests.
E is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr M.
What happened
In early February 2023, E instructed Barclays to make two international payments from its 
account. There were delays due to checks by Barclays and because it used the wrong 
account details for a payment. 
Barclays apologised to E and refunded the difference in exchange rate on the incorrectly 
made payment. Barclays also paid E £100 compensation.
Mr M didnt think £100 compensation was anywhere near the amount Barclays should pay 
for the problems he faced with the transfers. Mr M said he spent time on the phone going 
through security but the next day, the transfers still hadnt arrived.
Mr M visited a branch and found out that one of the payments didnt have the correct details. 
Mr M says he then spent a few hours reissuing the payments. The same day, Mr M was 
asked to go back to the branch as there were further issues. Mr M said this involved a great 
deal of stress, particularly as he had to leave a family gathering.
Barclays gave Mr M conflicting information over whether Es account was blocked or not and 
he was left not knowing when the payments would be made. Mr M says that Barclays then 
made the payments even though it said Es account was still blocked. 
Mr M says that Es suppliers were left unhappy as he couldnt pay them and he lost money 
due to fluctuations in exchange rates. 
Our investigator originally considered that Barclays compensation offer was fair but after Mr 
M responded to the investigation outcome, she sent a revised view asking Barclays to pay 
an additional £100. This was because she didnt think £100 fairly compensated E when 
Barclays used the wrong account details to make a payment.
Mr M doesnt think a total of £200 adequately reflects the impact Barclays errors have had. 
He says he found the day he spent trying to sort the payments out extremely stressful. Mr M 
would like me to listen to the calls made with Barclays as the service he received was 
terrible. 
Our investigator told Mr M that Barclays couldnt locate the call recordings but that shed 
already agreed he received poor service, so listening to them would be unlikely to change 
her view of the complaint.
Mr M remains unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says the calls would show that 
Barclays kept giving him conflicting information. Mr M says that because of the experience, 
he has moved banks which has taken months of work to complete.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays agrees that its level of customer service fell below what E could reasonably have 
expected and Mr M has clearly explained the impact Barclays actions had on him. I do not in 
any way seek to diminish the importance of the problems Mr M faced but the complaint is 
made by E, not Mr M. E is a limited company and so its own legal entity. This means I cant 
consider the upset or stress that Mr M has felt personally. Instead, I am considering whether 
the investigators recommendation that Barclays pay a total of £200 compensation is a fair 
way to resolve Es complaint.
Mr M acknowledges that some of the delay with the payments was due to Barclays security 
measures, which while inconvenient, were something hed expected and planned for. So, 
Ive taken this into account when considering a fair outcome to Es complaint. Theres also 
no dispute that Barclays made mistake with the payment details which led to further delays  
although Barclays points out that the customer is responsible for checking the payment 
details are correct. 
Mr Ms biggest concern appears to be with the events of 3 February 2023 which involved 
multiple branch visits, conflicting information, and stress, particularly as Mr M was then due 
to be out of the country. For the reasons outlined above, I cant consider the impact on Mr M 
personally but I can take account of the time he spent sorting the payments out, over and 
above what could reasonably be expected. 
Some of the disruption was to Mr Ms personal plans but I also assume the additional work 
needed to sort the payments out, meant Mr Ms time was unnecessarily diverted away from 
running the business of E. For this inconvenience, I consider an overall compensation 
payment of £200 is fair. Particularly as Barclays has already accounted to E for the loss 
caused by the fluctuation in exchange rate.
As the investigator told Mr M, Ive accepted that the level of service E received was poor, so 
I dont think listening to call recordings would change my decision, even if they were 
available. And this service isnt the regulator  thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. So, I cant punish or fine Barclays for any failures in customer service.
Overall, I agree that Barclays let E down and this is reflected in Es decision to leave 
Barclays. I appreciate that this in turn led to additional time and effort but as it was Es 
choice to make and not something Barclays required E to do, I dont award additional 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience to E of switching banks.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays should pay E £100. For the avoidance of doubt, this in addition 
to the £100 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman