DRN-1606783
The complaint
Mr O complains that the car provided to him by BW Financial Services (GB) Ltd was not of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr O acquired a new car on 21 September 2018 with the benefit of a Personal Contract 
Purchase (PCP) agreement with BMW Financial Services (BMWFS). The car cost just under 
£62,000.
Within the first four weeks, Mr O noticed a problem with car. This was diagnosed as a faulty 
sensor, which was repaired by the dealership.
In January 2019 the identical fault re-occurred. The garage recorded this as a sensor fault 
and repaired it again.  In August 2019 however Mr O reported another problem with the tyre 
sensor. He returned the car to the garage with both sets of keys and said that he wished to 
reject the car because he didnt feel it was of satisfactory quality. He felt the ongoing 
problems with the tyre pressure meant it wasnt safe to drive. He says BMWFS and the 
garage then arranged to carry out a further repair without his consent. Mr O doesnt feel he 
should be required to accept the repair and instead wants to exercise his right to reject the 
car and cancel his agreement with BMWFS.
BMWFS rejected the complaint and said Mr O had accepted the repair in August so he 
wasnt now able to reject the car. 
Our investigator said this agreement was covered by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
which implies a number of terms into any finance agreement including that any goods 
supplied must be of satisfactory quality and that satisfactory in that context means what a 
reasonable person would expect when taking into consideration the description of the goods, 
the price paid and other relevant circumstances. It also says that goods should be free of 
minor defects, and durable.
This was a high value new car and Mr O would have expected it to be fault free. However it 
had developed a fault within the first month, which was repaired but which then occurred 
again a few months later suggesting the original repair had failed. A similar fault then 
occurred again in August 2019. Our investigator didnt consider that a reasonable person 
would expect a new car to develop faults, even minor ones. so soon after purchase.
When the car had gone wrong again in August, Mr O had spoken to both the garage and 
BMWFS saying he wanted to reject the car. Hed then emailed BMWFS on 2 September to 
confirm this. Although Mr O had collected the car shortly after hed explained this was 
because hed been told the car was still his responsibility and felt he had no option. Taking 
this into account, our investigator wasnt satisfied that Mr O had consented to any further 
repairs at this time. 
He didnt feel that a reasonable person would expect a new car to demonstrate the number 
of new faults Mr O had experienced. On that basis he didnt consider the car had been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that Mr O was therefore entitled to reject it. He 
recommended that Mr O should be allowed to reject the car in accordance with his rights 
under the CRA and that BMWFS should:
take the car back at no cost to Mr O and amend Mr O's credit file to reflect the 
balance as settled.
return the deposit with 8% interest from the date paid until settlement.
pay Mr O £200 for the inconvenience caused by having to have multiple repairs.
BMWFS disagreed and said Mr O had accepted the repair in August 2019 and that he 
wasnt therefore entitled to reject it. It also believed the third repair had been caused by an 
external influence for which it wasnt responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2915 (CRA) BWFS has a responsibility to ensure that the 
car supplied to Mr O under the finance agreement was of satisfactory quality. Theres no 
precise definition of what is meant by satisfactory but its what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory taking into account the relevant circumstances, which in the case 
of a car would include its age, price and mileage. However, there are limits to that 
responsibility which is that any fault must be present or developing at the point of sale.
Mr Os car was new and cost just under £62,000. Understandably Mr O had high 
expectations of the car and I think a reasonable person would also expect it to be supplied 
completely fault free.
The CRA says that where a fault develops within the first 30 days, the consumer can allow a 
repair or refuse it and reject the car. In Mr Os case, the car did develop a fault within the first 
30 days. Mr O could have rejected the car at that point but instead he allowed the dealership 
to carry out a repair.
Unfortunately, the same fault occurred a few months later. The legislation says that, where a 
fault develops after the first 30 days the consumer may still have a right to reject the car 
provided they can show that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale. The 
fault in January 2019 was the same as that in September 2018 so I think its reasonable to 
conclude that this this was a continuation of the fault that had already been repaired once. 
And on that basis, Im satisfied that this fault had been present or developing at the point of 
sale.
Mr O could have rejected it at that time both on the basis that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
but also on the grounds that thered been an attempted repair which had failed. Mr O 
however allowed the dealership a further attempt at a repair. However, in August 2019 a 
similar problem occurred with a tyre sensor. At this point Mr O says he wasnt willing to 
continue with the car and informed both the dealership and BMWFS that he wanted to reject 
it.
Its clear that BMWFS and Mr O have a different view of what happened around this third 
visit to the garage. BMWFS say that Mr O accepted the third repair attempt but Mr O denies 
that and says hed made it clear he was rejecting the car at that point.
I should explain that, where theres no information on any particular issue, or the information 
available is unclear or contradictory, then I will look at all the circumstances of the case and 
decide whats more likely than not to have happened.Ive seen that when Mr O contacted the dealership in August 2019, he said he wanted to 
reject the car. He also contacted BMWFS on 29 August saying he wished to reject the car 
and then followed this up with an email to them on 2 September to confirm this. Further Mr O 
says when he took the car into the garage he handed over both sets of keys.
Ive seen what BMW says about the repair and that Mr O collected the car which indicates 
he accepted the repair. However, Mr O has said he only collected it because hed been told 
that it was still his responsibility and so he felt he had no choice.
Clearly theres some dispute about what happened in August but I consider that Mr Os 
actions at that time support his view that he wanted to reject the car and that hed told both 
the dealership and BMWFS of this. For that reason, I cant agree that Mr O did consent to 
the repair before it was carried out. And because of that I think its important to look at what 
his rights were at the time of his rejection.
Mr O had a new car that had developed three faults within the first eleven months, the first of 
which happened within the first four weeks. the first two faults were said to be identical and 
the third also related to the tyre sensor and so was similar if not identical. And Im also 
satisfied that the first attempted repair didnt work because the problem occurred again a few 
months later. When the third fault occurred with the tyre sensor I think that a reasonable 
person wouldnt consider this Mr O was entitled to feel that the car wasnt satisfactory taking 
into account its age, price and mileage and to decide to reject it. 
Ive seen that BMWFS considers the third fault was caused by rodents chewing the wire but 
Mr O has said that he dealt with that problem separately and that it had nothing to do with 
this sensor. Im inclined to accept this as it would seem unusual for the only fault resulting 
from this to be the tyre sensor, the source of the first repairs. On balance therefore I consider 
that there was an underlying problem and that this had in all probability been present or 
developing at the point of sale. For that reason, Im not satisfied that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Putting things right
 I appreciate theres been some delay in reaching this decision but I do not consider that it 
would be fair to penalise Mr O for this. In the circumstances Ive decided to adopt the 
investigators recommendation and to allow Mr O to reject the car and to cancel the 
agreement. BMWFS must also refund any deposit paid by Mr O together with interest at 8% 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement. In addition, it should also pay him £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by having to return the car to the garage on 
multiple occasions. However, I wont be asking BMWFS to refund any of the payments made 
to date by Mr O as he has had the benefit of the car during this time
My final decision My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
a) to allow Mr O to reject the car and to cancel the agreement 
b) to take the car back at no cost to Mr O and amend Mr O's credit file to reflect the 
balance as settled.
c) to return Mr Os deposit together with interest at 8% simple from the date paid until 
the date of settlement.
d) to pay Mr O £200 for the inconvenience caused by having to have multiple repairs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman