DRN-4037148
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In 2022, Monzo received an official fraud report, saying that a number of transfers Miss E 
had recently received were the proceeds of fraud. Monzo blocked Miss Es account, then 
after reviewing things, closed it and registered a marker at CIFAS.
Our adjudicator looked into things and thought Monzo had acted fairly.
It has since come to light that the alleged victim wants to retract the allegation. He explained 
he was Miss Es ex-partner, and had made a false report following their breakup. The 
sending bank  who initially gave Monzo the fraud report  have confirmed this is their 
genuine customer and he has genuinely retracted the fraud allegation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss E and Monzo a provisional decision on 13 March 2023, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. In that decision, I said:
The sending bank have now confirmed that the ex-partner really did retract the allegation, 
and this was their genuine customer. So the marker will now, of course, need to be removed. 
The question, then, is whether Monzo made their initial report to CIFAS fairly or not, based 
on the information they had at the time.
On this point, Monzo were not required to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that Miss E 
had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to believe that shed 
misused her account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which had appropriate 
supporting evidence. 
Monzo received an official fraud report from another institution, which they were entitled to 
place weight on. They could see that Miss E had been receiving and spending very unusual 
amounts from a reported victim of fraud. And another financial institution also said shed 
previously received the proceeds of fraud in another case.
With that in mind, I think it was fair that Monzo blocked Miss Es account straight away, in 
order to protect other customers from potential fraud. And in much the same way that Miss E 
was allowed to choose who she banked with, Monzo were broadly allowed to choose who 
banked with them. So after reviewing the situation, I dont think they did anything 
substantially wrong in closing her account based on what they could see.
When it comes to the CIFAS marker, I can see why Monzo added it, and I dont think they 
acted entirely unreasonably based on what they knew at the time. But they should really 
have spoken to Miss E and given her a proper opportunity to evidence her side of things. Of 
course, until the ex-partner withdrew his allegation, it looks like it couldve been difficult for 
Miss E to evidence she was entitled to the disputed funds. So I cant be completely certain 
what difference it would have made here. But it seems likely that had Monzo investigated as 
they should have, Miss E wouldve got in touch with her ex-partner earlier, and so the 
situation might have been resolved earlier.
I can also see that when Miss Es account was blocked, she was abroad, and she told 
Monzo she needed help. But I cant see that Monzo gave her any significant help. Miss E 
explained this caused her a great deal of stress. I can also see that Miss E was not given 
clear timescales for what was happening. As I said before, I think it was reasonable that 
Monzo blocked the account and reviewed things, as they had a duty to take fraud seriously 
and protect other customers. But they should have offered Miss E some assistance while 
she was stuck abroad  she had significant funds which were not under dispute. And I think 
they could have been clearer about what was going on. 
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to account for 
their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts of compensation, its worth bearing 
in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, and not to issue large fines or to 
punish businesses. In this particular case, I also need to take into account that it was the ex-
partner who primarily caused this situation, rather than Monzo. Then a significant amount of 
delay was caused because the sending bank forgot to tell Monzo that the allegation had 
been withdrawn  Monzo didnt know it had been withdrawn until very recently. And Monzo 
did need to take the allegation seriously and take action to prevent potential fraud. Further, 
I understand that Miss E had another CIFAS marker, which would have caused her similar 
issues with her banking even if Monzos marker had been removed earlier. So theres only 
so much I can reasonably hold Monzo responsible for in particular.
I do find that Monzo could have been clearer with Miss E and investigated things more 
thoroughly, and that they could have offered her more help while she was abroad. I find that 
they likely caused Miss E some considerable distress, upset, and worry. We have guidelines 
about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent with those. Taking 
everything into account, I think £350 compensation is fair to put right what Monzo got wrong.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Both sides replied, which Ill 
talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo accepted the provisional decision, and confirmed they hadnt heard about the 
retraction of the fraud claim earlier. They confirmed theyd now removed the marker, though 
it would take up to 31 days to reflect on Miss Es file. So Miss E should be able to get back 
on track shortly.
Miss E said she was also happy with the decision. But she queried why there was about 
£3,800 missing when Monzo transferred her remaining funds to her.I do understand why Miss E raised this. To explain, the £3,800 or so was money her ex-
partner had sent her, which was returned to him as part of his fraud claim. I can understand 
why this might cause Miss E some further frustration.
The return was requested by the ex-partners bank, and Monzo were expected to return the 
funds as part of dealing with the alleged fraud. So I dont think Monzo were substantially 
wrong in doing so. Again, it was really the ex-partner who caused this all to happen, rather 
than Monzo  Monzo were ultimately trying to protect the alleged victim.
Importantly, I cant know for certain what arrangement Miss E had with the ex-partner and 
whether the £3,800 is ultimately hers or not. For example, that money may have only been 
lent to her and may have been due back to him anyway, or it may have been a payment for 
a purpose which was or was not fulfilled, or it may have been a type of gift that could or 
could not be taken back, and so on.
Essentially, I cant weigh in on whether the money really belonged to Miss E or her ex-
partner  thats ultimately a dispute between the two of them, which falls outside of my remit. 
I only have the power to look at the dispute between Miss E and Monzo in this decision, but 
I have no power to consider the underlying dispute between Miss E and her ex-partner.
So while I know this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss E, in this case I cant make 
any findings on whether shes entitled to that £3,800 or so, or not. If she believes that she is 
entitled to it, I can only suggest that she disputes this with the ex-partner directly. 
Other than that point, Ive not been given any new evidence or arguments. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute; and-
pay Miss E £350 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Es complaint in part, and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman