DRN-2930100
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down a 
claim on its commercial property insurance policy. 
Mr L, a director of R has brought the complaint on Rs behalf. R is also represented in this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of R.
Reference to Allianz also includes the actions and comments of their agents. 
What happened
R held a commercial insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after part of the 
roof of its business premises collapsed. R provided Allianz with a copy of a structural 
engineers report which concluded that the roof had collapsed due to corrosion caused by 
water ingress and condensation build up. 
 
Allianz turned down Rs claim on the basis the policy excluded cover for damage caused by 
corrosion and gradually operating causes.  
 
R didnt think it was reasonable for Allianz to rely on this exclusion. It said it had kept the roof 
in a good state of repair and hadnt acted negligently. R said there wasnt a requirement for it 
to have a structural survey as part of the ongoing maintenance and inspection programme, 
and the steel that had been damaged wouldnt have been visible during a routine inspection. 
R added that the surveys that had been done in previous years hadnt noted any damage, 
and it would have carried out repairs if damage had been visible.   
 
Allianz said that the exclusion for corrosion was separate to the exclusion for wear and tear 
or gradually occurring cause, so whether R had maintained the roof appropriately didnt 
make a difference to the exclusion.  
 
R was unhappy that the claim had been declined, particularly as it had adhered to the 
inspection scheme required in the policy. R thought Allianz were relying on a technical 
exclusion, which didnt match with the requirements of the policy.  
 
Allianz said whether a full structural survey would have picked up the damage was irrelevant 
as neither R nor Allianz were required to undertake one. They also said that, in addition to 
the exclusions they had already relied on to turn down the claim, the policy excluded cover 
for damage to a building or structure caused by its own collapse or cracking. 
 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, R brought its complaint to our service. It didnt think Allianz 
was treating it fairly by turning down the claim and said the broker had indicated to Allianz 
that it thought the claim should be paid.  
 
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint and ultimately didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought R had maintained the roof appropriately and routine inspections hadnt shown that 
damage was being caused; however, he thought that Allianz could fairly turn down the 
claim because the policy specifically excluded damage caused by corrosion.  
 
R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said Allianz had allowed it to be 
misled by the broker, and that the broker had said that an adequate inspection plan had 
been followed. R said that, for these reasons, the claim should be paid. R thought Allianz 
should be accountable for what the broker had agreed on Allianzs behalf.  
 
Our investigator asked Allianz for their comments on whether the broker was acting as 
Allianzs agent when recommending the maintenance plan and advising that the claim 
should be paid. Allianz said the broker didnt have delegated authority to act for Allianz.  
 
R accepted that the broker was its agent rather than Allianzs. However, R also said that the 
surveyor who had approved the maintenance plan was Allianzs agent and therefore Allianz 
should be held responsible for not explaining what R needed to do to be covered by the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rs policy is an all risks policy that provides cover for accidental damage. However, it also 
includes an exclusion for: 
 
Damage caused by or consisting of a corrosion, rust, wet or dry rot, shrinkage, 
evaporation, loss of weight, dampness, dryness, marring, scratching, vermin or 
insects. 
 
Its not in dispute that the damage to the roof was caused by water ingress and 
condensation causing corrosion. I appreciate that R maintained the roof appropriately 
and wasnt able to identify the damage with routine maintenance and inspection, but I 
dont think thats relevant to the outcome of the claim or this complaint.  
 
The terms and conditions of the policy set out that the exclusion for damage caused by 
corrosion is a separate exclusion to the one for wear and tear and gradually operating 
causes. So I think its clear the intention of the policy was to exclude corrosion, 
irrespective of how the property is maintained and inspected. As corrosion is 
specifically excluded by the policy and the damage was caused by corrosion, I think 
Allianz was entitled to rely on this exclusion to turn down Rs claim.  
 
I understand why R was unhappy to find that it wasnt covered for this claim, despite 
following the inspection and maintenance warranties specified by Allianz. I can see that 
the policy documents drew Rs attention to the inspection and maintenance warranties, 
but I dont think they specify that any claim would be paid, irrespective of the cause. I 
also dont think that following an agreed inspection and maintenance regime means 
that there would be a reasonable expectation that all claims would be covered, even 
where the cause of the damage is specifically excluded. So I dont think Allianz adding 
inspection and maintenance warranties to the policy means they need to pay Rs claim, 
and I dont think whether the maintenance plan was followed or not is relevant to this 
particular claim as it was declined due to corrosion and not because of something 
which R failed to do. 
 
As I think Allianz were entitled to rely on the exclusion for corrosion to turn down the 
claim, I dont need to make a finding on whether they might also fairly rely on other 
exclusions, so Im not going to comment on those further.  
 It now seems to be accepted that the broker wasnt acting as Allianzs agent. In any 
event, if R remains unhappy with the actions of the broker, it would need to complain 
about that separately to the broker.  
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome R was hoping for, especially given the significant 
value of the claim, but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can 
fairly require Allianz to pay Rs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman