DRN-3356745
The complaint
Miss C complains about a missed payment recorded on her credit file by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
On 31 March 2020 Miss C called Santander as she was experiencing financial difficulties as 
a result of the pandemic. Miss C spoke with Santander again on 1 April 2020 and 6 April 
2020. During each call, Miss C asked for support. Miss C was told guidance was due to be 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) shortly and asked to keep note of updates 
on its website. 
Miss C didnt make a payment in April 2020 but did make one in May 2020. On 14 May 2020 
Miss C spoke with Santander and it approved a payment holiday for her credit card under 
the Payment Deferral Guidance that had been issued by the FCA. 
Miss C went on to raise a complaint after she found a missed payment on her credit file. 
Santander didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint and she took the step of referring it to this 
service. 
An investigator looked at Miss Cs complaint and upheld it. They thought Santander 
shouldve done more to support Miss C and recommended it remove the missed payment 
from April 2020 and pay her £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Santander 
didnt agree, so Miss Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss C was very concerned about the impact of the pandemic on her finances and 
contacted Santander at the end of March 2020 to ask for support. Santander has pointed out 
the FCAs Payment Deferral Guidance, that allowed it to offer payment holidays, wasnt 
published until after Miss Cs calls. But I think it was clear Miss C needed help and was 
waiting for the new guidance to come into effect. 
Miss C was asked to keep an eye on Santanders website. But there was nothing stopping 
Santander making contact with Miss C after she called on various occasions to register 
interest in the new support. 
Santander has pointed out Miss C made a payment in the first week of May 2020 and says 
this shows Miss C was aware no payment break had been agreed. Whilst that may be the 
case, Miss C was then successfully approved for a payment break from the middle of May 
2020. So its clear Miss C met Santanders qualifying criteria for the support offered under 
the Payment Deferral Guidance. 
Our investigator said Santander couldve backdated the support offered and I think thats a 
reasonable point. Given Miss C was subsequently approved for a six month payment break 
without impact to her credit file I think Santander shouldve considered backdating it to the 
point she first asked for help. That wouldve covered the April 2020 payment and meant 
there was no missed payment recorded on Miss Cs credit file. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. I think Santander 
shouldve done more to help Miss C and Im satisfied the missed payment recorded for April 
2020 fails to fairly reflect what happened or the impact of the pandemic on her. The 
investigator also awarded £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C. Ive 
considered how the issues raised have affected Miss C and Im satisfied £100 is fair in all 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- Amend Miss Cs credit file to remove adverse information recorded about her credit 
card from April 2020 
- Pay Miss C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman