DRN-2935577
The complaint
Ms S complains that Soteria Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S has a legal expenses insurance policy provided by Soteria. She made a claim in 
relation to an employment dispute. The details of this dispute arent relevant to my decision.
Soteria declined cover for Ms S claim. It said that her claim didnt enjoy reasonable 
prospects of success, as is required by the policy. Ms S challenged this and provided an 
opinion from her own appointed counsel which suggested that, with an amendment to Ms S 
employment tribunal claim, the claim would have prospects of success.
Soteria referred the matter back to the same counsel who had given advice before Ms S 
sought her own advice, and amended the claim. They considered that the claim still didnt 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success. Soteria declined to cover Ms S claim.
Ms S complained to Soteria and when it rejected her complaint, she contacted our service. 
Our investigator didnt think that Soteria had done anything wrong. He thought it was 
reasonable for Soteria to rely on the advice received from counsel. Ms S didnt accept this. 
She said Soteria should have asked for a third counsel to give their opinion on her claims 
prospects of success.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a common condition of legal expenses insurance policies that, in order to be covered, the 
claim must enjoy reasonable (ie 51% or greater) prospects of success throughout the life of 
the claim. Its not disputed that such a condition is in Ms Ss policy, and that the condition 
must be met in order for this claim to be successful. 
The position here is that there are competing conclusions reached by counsel about Ms S 
claims prospects of success. Its not for me to say which is correct. What I need to do is 
consider whether Soteria has acted fairly in preferring the advice which says that the claim 
doesnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
It seems to me that theres agreement that Ms S original claim, as presented by her to 
Soteria didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. I say this because Soteria initially 
assessed the claim as not enjoying such prospects, and when Ms S challenged this, sought 
advice from an independent counsel. They said the claim was unlikely to be successful.
Following this, Ms S sought advice from her preferred counsel. They indicated that if the 
claim was significantly amended, then it would have reasonable prospects of success. The 
amendment was made to the claim. So I think that Ms S own counsel agrees with the 
original assessment of the prospects of success  otherwise no amendment to the claim 
would have been recommended.
This is important here because I think it goes to support the suggestion that Soteria could 
reasonably rely on counsels advice about the amended claim  the counsel had rightly 
identified that the original, unamended claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success 
and so Soteria could fairly conclude that the advice about the amended claim was also 
reliable.
Ms S believes that the counsel who had given the original advice was unlikely to change 
their view as to do so would be to admit that original advice was wrong. Im not persuaded 
by this, for two main reasons. The first is that the new advice was based on an amended 
claim, so a change in outcome wouldnt be to admit that the original advice was wrong, it 
would be to say that with the amended claim, the claim now had reasonable prospects of 
success. The second is that the counsel was acting in their professional capacity. Im not 
persuaded that an experienced counsel, well known for their work in employment law, would 
give advice which they knew to be wrong simply to avoid going back on their earlier advice.
I also think Soteria could fairly rely on the advice obtained which indicated that there werent 
prospects of success because the counsel who had given it was more experienced having 
been a barrister for seven years longer than Ms S counsel. They also specialised in 
employment law matters. I think Soteria could fairly consider that the counsel had the 
required experience and knowledge to be able to make a reasonable assessment, and could 
reasonably point to their greater experience as being a reason why they should rely on that 
counsels opinion over Ms S counsel.
Ive considered whether Soteria should have asked for a third counsel to give an opinion as 
to whether Ms S claim had reasonable prospects of success. An experienced council who 
specialises in employment law has already concluded that Ms S claim doesnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. Ive outlined above the reasons why I think it was fair for 
Soteria to rely on this when it declined cover for the claim. I dont think it was necessary for a 
further opinion to be obtained.
Im satisfied that Soteria acted reasonably when it declined Ms S claim based on the 
counsels opinions that Ms S claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman