DRN-3281376
The complaint
Mr M complains that Allay Claims Limited are asking him to pay their success fees for 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims he said he hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
In early 2019 Mr M said he spoke to Allay about mis-sold PPI claims but hadnt pursued any 
claim with them. He said hed been sent documents to sign but hed destroyed these. He 
said later in the year he was contacted by his lender Ill call N about making PPI claims and 
these claims were successful. But shortly after Allay asked him to pay their fees for the 
successful claims. Mr M said he spoke to N who confirmed they didnt have a letter of 
authority for Allay to act for him. Mr M said Allay sent him the agreement they said hed 
signed, but the signature on the agreement wasnt his. And now Allay are looking to seek 
their fees through the courts. He complained to Allay.
Allay said Mr M had signed a LoA in March 2019 authorising them to pursue mis-sold PPI 
claims for him. And theyd acted in good faith in submitting this to N in pursuance of PPI 
claims based on the information provided to them in the initial application. They said when 
they notified Mr M that PPI had been found he further instructed them to act for him in 
providing their claims service by completing PPI questionnaires to help strengthen his claim 
that the PPI had been mis-sold. They said theyd updated Mr M when PPI had been found 
on several accounts hed with N.  Allay said N notified them that Mr M had five successful 
mis-sold PPI claims for accounts he had with them. As the claims were successful and Mr M 
hadnt cancelled his agreement, Allay said their fees were justified.
Mr M wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mr M had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as his 
claims were successful their fees were justified.
Mr M didnt agree, he said he hadnt signed any forms for Allay to act for him. He asked for 
an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Ms claims was because of the submission they
made for him. Mr M is adamant that Allay didnt have a valid authorisation from him 
instructing them to act on his behalf. Mr M said the signature on Allays LoA isnt his. But its 
not our role to validate a signature as we arent handwriting experts. Were an informal 
dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were impartial 
and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story because 
of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given.
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. I need to determine whether I think its more likely than 
not Mr M had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I consider he has, whether 
Allay knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted 
fairly and reasonably in their actions with him. So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in March 2019. Some 
of the details in this application correlate with personal details Mr M has given to us, 
including his mobile telephone number *2549. The application also needed details of Mr Ms 
lenders, and these details were also provided. Allay said that their terms and conditions had 
to be agreed to for the application to progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions 
this would have generated the LoA populated with the personal details that had been 
supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature being added. And an 
acknowledgement would have been sent on submission. Mr M has told us that he 
remembered speaking to Allay early in 2019. 
Ive looked at Allays terms and conditions they say:
We will carry out a free PPI check. We will notify you once PPI has been identified and 
submit your complaint to the lender following your instruction. Your instruction can be given 
by completing the postal Claim Questionnaire, submitting the Claim Questionnaire online or 
over the telephone with Allay.
And go on to say:
If the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply.
This means that up to the submission of the complaint to the lender Allay wouldnt be 
charging a fee. But from the point they are instructed to submit a complaint their fee will be 
payable if the claim is successful.
In June 2019, I can see from Allays records that N told them Mr M had PPI on several 
accounts. Their records show they notified Mr M that PPI had been found by sending these 
details to Mr Ms mobile telephone number *2549, the same number hes given to us. 
Included in the message was a link for a PPI questionnaire to be completed. Allays records 
show PPI questionnaires were submitted to N later the same month. So, from this point 
Allay would have been providing their claims service.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. And a claim received after the deadline date wouldnt have been 
accepted by any lender unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Mr M said he didnt contact N, it was they who called him to ask some questions about PPI 
claims. I can see in August 2019 N told both Allay and Mr M that hed five successful PPI 
claims. So, for N to have investigated mis-sold PPI claims for Mr M they must have had a 
claim submitted to them. As Mr M hadnt directly made a claim with N Im satisfied this 
shows that N had acted upon the LoA and PPI questionnaires  submitted by Allay. And that 
they recognised Allay as being Mr Ms representative and that they werent solely dealing 
with Mr M. So, Im satisfied thats its more likely than not Mr M authorised Allay to act on his 
behalf in pursuing mis-sold PPI claims.I will now look to see whether Mr M asked Allay to stop working for him. Allays terms and 
conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us.
And go on to explain the various ways the agreement can be cancelled, by telephone, email, 
downloading a cancellation form from Allays website or in writing.
I can see Allay notified Mr M from 6 June 2019 that PPI had been found. And that they 
submitted the PPI questionnaire to N 26 June 2019. As Allay would have taken the PPI 
questionnaire as their instruction for their claims service, Id consider the 14-day cooling off 
period to start from that date. So, Mr M would have had up to 9 July 2019 to cancel the 
agreement free of any charge. I havent seen any evidence that Mr M asked Allay to cancel 
the agreement or ask them to stop or question them as to why they kept contacting him by 
text message and voicemail either within or after the 14-day cooling off period. And by not 
telling Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off 
period, theyd continued to provide their claims service. 
The agreement Mr M would have had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
I can see Mr M asked Allay in November 2019 why his redress amounts differed, and he 
requested a copy of his agreement with them. But this was after his claims were successful.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision but taking all the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. As I think it more likely that Mr M had authorised Allay to act on 
his behalf in making a mis-sold PPI claim and the agreement hadnt been cancelled. As the 
claim was successful Allay can charge their fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman