DRN-2874768
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a mortgage he held with HSBC UK Bank Plc. He is unhappy that 
HSBC was inflexible about what it would offer him when his interest rate products were 
coming to an end in 2020. Hes also unhappy with the administration of the account in that a 
product that should have been backdated when it was applied wasnt, and so showed that it 
didnt expire until May 2020, several months later than the product attached to the rest of the 
mortgage.  Mr K has said this led to him taking more money from his company (with a 
resulting tax bill) than he otherwise would have.
What happened
In 2018 Mr K arranged interest rate products for his interest-only mortgage with HSBC. The 
mortgage was split into three parts and one product covered two parts of the mortgage and 
another product the third part. All should have been attached in January 2018, however, 
there were delays. The products were meant to be backdated to the end of January and the 
additional interest Mr K paid on the whole mortgage was refunded to the account. However, 
the product attached to the third part wasnt properly backdated and was attached with an 
end date in May 2020, instead of January 2020.
In November 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr K advising him that his interest rate products were due 
to end soon. It invited him to contact it to discuss his options. Mr K called it at that time and 
was told the product on the third part of the mortgage wouldnt end until May 2020. The 
options for new products were discussed and Mr K said he would call back.
A further reminder of the product expiry was sent to Mr K less than a week later. It invited 
him to get in touch to discuss his options. 
Shortly before the product on parts one and two of the mortgage was due to expire Mr K 
contacted HSBC about his mortgage again. He asked that HSBC extend the existing 
products for a month to allow a new product to be arranged. He also wanted to negotiate a 
lower rate product than HSBC advertised as being available.
HSBC confirmed that it wouldnt extend the existing product and the advertised products 
were all that was available. Mr K was also provided with information about some of the 
products available to him. This included confirming that the 1.34% interest rate product Mr K 
had mentioned was only available for repayment mortgages. 
On 18 February 2020 Mr K complained because his product had ended, and he hadnt had 
time to deal with it because he had been abroad. During the investigation of this complaint, 
the error regarding the product on the third part of the mortgage was identified. 
A dividend payment from Mr Ks company was issued to him on 27 February 2020. It was for 
£24,000. 
On 28 February 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr K with its response to the complaint. It explained 
that there had been delays when the interest rate products were attached to the mortgage in 
2018. It had made interest adjustments at the time to ensure Mr K hadnt been out of pocket. 
However, the second product wasnt correctly attached to the mortgage and so the expiry 
date didnt match that attached to the other parts of the mortgage. To compensate for this 
error, HSBC said it would leave the mortgage on the product interest rate until the earlier of 
the date Mr K had been told it applied until, or the date of his re-mortgage. It also offered him 
£100 as an apology for the mistake.  
On the same day HSBC arranged for a redemption statement to be sent to Mr K. It 
highlighted that it would show an early repayment charge (ERC) being due on the third part 
of the mortgage, but this was due to the error with that product. It confirmed the ERC 
wouldnt be charged. 
Mr K didnt accept HSBCs position. He said that hed spent a day and a half the previous 
week making arrangements to address the additional payments he would have to make until 
May 2020. This included accessing funds from his company in the form of dividends and 
discussions with his accountant about that payment and the tax implications. He wanted to 
be paid for his time - £1,425  and wanted HSBC to pay 7.5% tax on the additional £9,000 of 
dividends he said he had taken from his company. The latter amount was later changed to 
£24,000 of dividends that he wanted tax refunded on.
HSBC said that it was happy its offer was fair and it wouldnt be increasing it. It also 
confirmed that it didnt compensate a consumer for time spent dealing with a complaint.
Mr K repaid his HSBC mortgage in May 2020.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. He told our investigator that hed taken £24,000 
of dividends from his company because he would have to pay the first two parts of the 
mortgage on a higher interest rate between the end of January and end of May 2020. In 
addition, he said those parts of the mortgage would be converted to a repayment basis 
involving him paying around an additional £2,000 per month to the mortgage. So hed 
calculated that he would need to pay around an additional £12,000 toward the mortgage. 
Furthermore, he would need to pay out to arrange another mortgage, which he anticipated 
would cost him around another £4,500. It was also explained that Mr K had thought he might 
not be able to obtain an offset mortgage with another lender and so would have to pay more 
interest, for which he added £1,500 to the amount. Adding in a contingency amount of 
£6,000 brought the total up to £24,000.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He thought HSBC had given Mr K enough notice of the expiry of his interest rate 
products and it was also not unreasonable for it to decline to negotiate a bespoke 
replacement product. In addition, the investigator wasnt persuaded Mr K had taken 
dividends from his business due to HSBCs error on the second product expiry.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said HSBC told him that he couldnt 
move his mortgage until May 2020 and he would have had to find a large amount of money 
to cover the increased mortgage interest and repayment amounts until that point. He 
questioned why the investigator hadnt been persuaded the money hed taken from his 
company had been because of the error by HSBC.
The investigator highlighted in response some information Mr K had given to HSBC. This 
being that he was overseas and hadnt been able to start the process of re-mortgaging his 
property until his return in February 2020. As such, the investigator was satisfied that it was 
Mr Ks circumstances that had meant he couldnt re-mortgage before the rate ended, rather 
than HSBC not giving him enough notice. The investigator again explained that as he wasnt 
persuaded Mr K could have started the re-mortgage process before February, even if HSBC 
hadnt made the error it did, the re-mortgage wouldnt have happened before it did. As such, 
he couldnt find that HSBCs error had directly led to Mr K taking the additional dividends  he would always have had to fund the mortgage for a period after the products expired at the 
end of January. 
Mr K still wasnt satisfied with the investigators explanation and so he asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several aspects to this complaint. The first being that HSBC made an 
administrative error with Mr Ks mortgage account in 2018, which led to the expiry date on 
one of the interest rate products on his account being wrong. HSBC has offered £100 for this 
error and it allowed the mortgage to remain on the applicable interest rate for several months 
longer than it should have been. This being because the interest on the account was 
recalculated in 2018 to allow the rate to have an effective date at the end of January 2018. 
So Mr K benefitted from the interest rate for more than the two years he was entitled to. I 
think HSBCs redress for the mistake it made was reasonable in the circumstances that the 
mistake didnt cause Mr K to suffer further financial losses as he has claimed. If Mr K wants 
to accept the £100 offered by HSBC he should contact it directly.
The next complaint point I will consider is that relating to the products HSBC had available in 
January 2020. Mr K didnt like the rates that were available to him and wanted HSBC to 
either match one from a different lender or negotiate a bespoke deal for him. Lenders will 
offer products based on the risks they are willing to accept and the cost of their own 
borrowing. This is a matter of the lenders commercial judgement and its not something we 
would look to interfere with. As such, I cant find that HSBC was wrong when it declined to 
negotiate a better arrangement for Mr K than it was offering to its other customers. 
I now turn to consider whether Mr K suffered a financial loss directly due to the error HSBC 
made in relation to the end date of the interest rate product. Mr K has said he had to take 
money out of his company to cover the mortgage costs to the end of May 2020 (including the 
cost of converting the mortgage to a repayment type), the costs of re-mortgaging the 
property and a significant contingency, in case there were any delays. 
As I have found that HSBC did nothing wrong in making available to Mr K the interest rate 
products it did, I cant find that it would have any responsibility in relation to any costs 
associated with Mr K re-mortgaging his property. It was his choice to re-mortgage to obtain 
an interest rate he was happier with. In addition, whilst Mr K has said he believed he would 
have to pay the mortgage on a repayment basis from the end of January 2020, I have seen 
no evidence he was told this would happen or that it did. 
When considering whether a consumer has suffered a financial loss because of an error on 
the part of a financial business, we will look at what would have happened had that error not 
occurred. I note that Mr K told HSBC that he was unable to start the re-mortgage process 
until he returned to the UK in February 2020. In this case, had the error not happened, 
Mr Ks whole mortgage would have reverted to standard variable rate at the end of January. 
As he didnt start the process to re-mortgage the property until after that date, he would 
always have incurred higher mortgage costs than before. Mr K has said he wouldnt have 
had the money to cover the additional interest costs for the mortgage until the second 
product ended and so took money from his company. This seems a reasonable thing to do. 
However, that doesnt mean he suffered a loss because of HSBCs error.I say this as despite Mr K knowing at the end of February 2020 the re-mortgage could 
happen at any point without him having to pay an ERC, it didnt go through until May 2020. 
This would indicate that even if HSBC hadnt made the mistake it did, Mr K would always 
have had to find the additional money to pay the mortgage costs for the months of February 
to May 2020. As such, I dont consider I can find HSBC responsible for any tax liability Mr K 
incurred because of the dividends he took from his company, as he would always have had 
to take that money to cover the cost of the mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
15 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman