DRN-1874827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) for its decision to decline their 
claim following an escape of water and resulting damage. Mr and Mrs D want HDI to settle 
their claims and compensation for their poor service.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D purchased their home in 2018 and immediately insured it with HDI. 
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs D noticed some brown dust and marks around the bath in the 
bathroom. They cleaned the area and put it from their minds. 
They then began to notice similar marks and dust appearing in the adjacent living room and 
on a unit which was standing against the connecting wall.
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs D moved their sofa and discovered that the floor underneath it was 
soft. They instructed a local builder to investigate and in the course of his investigations the 
carpet was pulled back, revealing dry rot.
Mr and Mrs D approached HDI. Agents were appointed to trace any leak, but they were 
unable to identify a source of moisture. 
On the basis that the agents were unable to locate a leak, HDI declined the claim. They 
stated that there was no insured peril and the policy ruled out gradually operating causes 
such as rot. 
Mr and Mrs D appointed their own damp specialist who undertook further investigations. He 
found a slow leak under the bathtub and concluded that the rot was caused by this leak. 
HDO sent a loss adjuster to the property who inspected and agreed with the damp 
specialists conclusions. It appeared likely that the leak was due to poor fitting and had been 
occurring for some time. 
HDI then declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim again. HDI considered that the issue was due to an 
incident before the inception of the policy, and that the consequent damage was gradually 
operating and so was excluded from cover. 
Mr and Mrs D complained. HDI sent its final response maintaining its decision on the claim 
but acknowledging service failings and offering Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation for those 
failings. 
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and has set out her view to the parties. 
This was that it was not reasonable to rely on the exclusion for a gradually operating causes 
because Mr and Mrs D could not reasonably have known about the damage as it was not 
clear until they moved the sofa, and that when they became aware of the damage they acted 
promptly. 
HDI has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. HDI has argued that 
the rot, rather than the leak, has caused the damage to their property and it therefore thinks 
that the claim should be declined.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My colleague has set out our approach to considering whether it is fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to rely on an exclusion relating to gradually operating causes. She explained that we 
consider whether the cause was gradually operating, and if it was, then we apply a second 
question, of whether the policy holders ought to have known about the issue sooner. 
We appreciate that insurance contracts are not the same as maintenance agreements and 
where there is an issue of a deteriorating property this would usually be the responsibility of 
the property owners, and not their insurers. 
In this case there is no suggestion that Mr and Mrs D were, or should have been, aware that 
anything was going wrong underneath their floor up until the point when they moved their 
sofa. I agree with my colleagues view that Mr and Mrs D acted promptly when they became 
aware of the issue and the property was overall very well maintained. 
Both the policy holders damp expert and HDIs loss adjuster acknowledge that the rot was 
caused by the leak, and that it was not related to a lack of maintenance or repair. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view that it would be unfair to rely on an 
exclusion of gradually operating causes, when the gradual deterioration flowed from an 
insured peril and the policy holders could not have known about it happening at an earlier 
point. 
HDI also feels that the claim should be declined because the leak was likely in existence at 
inception of the policy. There is no suggestion that Mr and Mrs D knew about the leak when 
they purchased the property, and the leak continued consistently whenever the bath was 
used. I therefore do not think it would be fair to characterise the escape of water as having 
occurred before the policy came into being, when the escape of water continued (albeit 
intermittently) for around another year. 
Some damage from the leak may have occurred before Mr and Mrs D began their policy, but 
a substantial proportion of the damage occurred during Mr and Mrs Ds cover. If HDI had 
sought to offer a contribution towards the claim to reflect that some damage was attributable 
to the period of their policy cover, this might have been reasonable. Given, however, the 
period of time that has now passed, I do not think it would be reasonable, or possible, for 
HDI to now distinguish between damage caused by the leak during the period of cover, and 
damage caused by the leak before HDI began cover. 
In addition, I note that the loss adjuster appointed by HDI stated in their report we note that 
there are exclusions under the policy of dry rot, and a gradually operating clause. However, 
we can now confirm that an insured peril has operated, and therefore consideration should 
be given to the rot, which was directly caused by this.
Accordingly, I agree with the investigators view and uphold this complaint. HDI must now 
consider the claim without reference to the exclusions discussed in this complaint.
I also agree that HDI ought to pay Mr and Mrs D compensation for the service issues they have experienced throughout this claim. I have borne in mind that Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
Putting things right
To put this right, HDI Global Specialty SE must reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds claim(s), not 
relying upon the exclusions mentioned in this complaint. 
In addition, HDI should pay to Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and direct HDI Global 
Specialty SE to:
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds claim(s), not relying upon the exclusions mentioned in this 
complaint; and 
pay to Mr and Mrs D £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman