DRN-3983688
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that QIC Europe Limited declined their claim and avoided their home 
insurance policy.
The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr D throughout my 
decision.
What happened
In summary, Mr D bought home insurance with QIC in November 2019 using an online 
comparison website.
In July 2022, Mr D noticed cracks had appeared in his porch, so he claimed under his policy. 
QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. A few days later, QIC wrote to Mr D with further 
questions about his home and it asked for a copy of his Homebuyers Survey. Mr D sent a 
copy of the private Building Survey he had done in 2014 when he bought his home.
Around a week after its surveyor had inspected the damage, QIC sent Mr D a voidance 
notice. QIC said hed given an incorrect answer to one of the questions when he bought the 
policy and at subsequent renewals. 
QIC said Mr D had made a careless misrepresentation when he said his home hadnt shown 
signs of cracking. Mr D appealed the decision but, after consideration, QIC voided the policy 
and refunded the premiums as if the policy had never existed.
Mr D complained to QIC setting out his reasons for saying there was no cracking present. 
He also said hed not been made aware of information that shouldve been sent to him at 
renewal. Mr D asked QIC to remove any record of his policy voidance so he wouldnt suffer 
the stigma or incur additional charges with other insurers. QIC didnt think it had done 
anything wrong, so it maintained its position. Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought QIC had asked a clear question and Mr D had given an incorrect 
answer. So, in the circumstances, our investigator thought QIC had fairly treated it as a 
careless misrepresentation and voided the policy.
Mr D remained unhappy, so his complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, Ill explain that my role here is to look at whether or not the evidence shows QIC 
treated Mr D fairly in the way it handled his claim. Theres a lot of information relating to Mr 
Ds complaint, and looking at his correspondence I can see he feels strongly about this 
matter. Rather than repeat all the details or comment on every point hes made, Ill address 
the key issue of Mr Ds complaint and then comment on the complaint a whole.
Policy voidance
Mr D doesnt think it was fair that QIC voided his policy for careless misrepresentation.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
QIC thinks Mr D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
bought the policy and at renewals when he said his home hadnt shown signs of cracking.
Ive looked at the question QIC asked under the heading of Statements about your 
property, which was:
It does NOT show signs of cracking in external walls.
Mr D clicked on the drop-down response to say, I agree.
I consider the question clear and unambiguous.
At renewal, QIC gave Mr D a copy of his answers and told him to let it know if any details 
had changed or if any of the answers were incorrect.
Although the wording had changed in line with industry good practice, the overall clarity and 
meaning remained the same. Mr D didnt tell QIC that any of the information was wrong. 
Ive looked at the 2014 building survey Mr D provided which said:
Movement
There is evidence that the property has suffered some structural movement We noted 
cracking through mortar joints to the front elevation beneath the bedroom window The 
movement noted appeared to be longstanding and non-progressive and the likelihood of 
any further significant movement seems remote. No structural works are considered 
necessary although the cracking would benefit from being repointed in the short term to 
prevent any problems with water ingress.
The report noted similar external cracking in another part of Mr Ds home.
Because the report confirmed the presence of cracking, Im satisfied that Mr D failed to take 
reasonable care to make a fair representation.So, Ive thought about what QIC wouldve done if Mr D had told it about the cracking when 
he sought to buy the policy. QIC provided me with the relevant underwriting criteria. I see 
that if Mr D had said there were signs of cracking, QIC wouldnt have offered a policy at all. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation was a qualifying one  that is, QIC 
wouldve done something different if it had the correct information.
QIC treated Mr Ds misrepresentation as careless. That means it doesnt think he set out to 
give incorrect information. As a careless misrepresentation offers the most favourable 
outcome for Mr D, I think QIC treated him fairly.
As Im satisfied Mr Ds misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions QIC can take under CIDRA if it would never have offered cover:
Avoid the policy
Treat the policy as though it never existed and not deal with any claims
Refund the premium
QIC has avoided the policy, treated it has if it never existed and refunded Mr Ds premium. 
Im satisfied QIC acted in line with CIDRA when it voided the policy and declined Mr Ds 
claim.
Additional points
Mr D raised other issues in addition to his main complaint that QIC voided his policy. I wont 
comment on every point, but Ill address the overriding issue which is about clarity when 
buying the policy.
Mr D said he knew nothing about CIDRA, so as a consumer he couldnt be expected to know 
what his responsibilities were. He disputes that he can be classed as a reasonable 
consumer without being asked about his background or circumstances.
I wouldnt expect consumers to know about CIDRA. But QIC and other insurers would know 
the rules and should incorporate them into the sales process. For example, if CIDRA expects 
a reasonable consumer to be able to respond to a question, then the responsibility is with 
QIC to ask it in such a way that consumers looking to buy a policy would understand it. 
Ive looked at QICs response to Mr D about this part of his complaint:
Your insurer does not expect you to know when cracking at your property is of concern to 
your insurer, or indicative of further issues, and as such, they do not ask. Instead, they 
ask a clear and simple question about signs of cracking in external walls and therefore, 
regardless of the cause of the crack or whether it is believed to be cosmetic, any and all 
cracking requires declaration to your insurer.
So, when classing Mr D as a reasonable consumer, QIC wasnt suggesting that he should 
have detailed knowledge of the insurance industry and its rules. Im satisfied that QIC 
provided a reasonable explanation, and I havent identified anything here which causes me 
to think it treated Mr D unfairly.
As a final point Ill comment on Mr Ds dispute that QIC asked a clear question about 
cracking in the external walls. The key point he raised was about the difference between 
cracks and cracking. I understand the distinction Mr D is pointing out  the walls had historical cracks but were no 
longer cracking. Therefore, he thinks he correctly answered QICs question about whether 
there was cracking. 
Im aware that it has already been pointed out to Mr D that his own survey report referred to 
the damage as cracking, so that ties in with the question QIC asked. But, even if the survey 
had used the word cracks, I cant say that it wouldve been reasonable for Mr D to say there 
was no cracking in his property. Mr D was aware that thered been historical movement in 
his property which had caused cracks in the walls, however slight, and they were still present 
when he bought the policy. 
Mr D said he thought QIC was trying to catch him out by rephrasing a previous question 
about subsidence. As Ive said, QICs question was clear so, on balance, it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr D to say his walls had cracks.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence shows QIC asked Mr D a clear question about 
cracking in his walls when he bought the policy. QIC has provided evidence to show that it 
sent, and Mr D received, similar clearly worded renewals and Mr D didnt say the information 
was incorrect. So, when he claimed for new cracks in his property, QIC reasonably voided 
the policy for careless misrepresentation.
I wont be asking QIC to reinstate the policy or request amendment of industry records.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman