DRN-2767940
The complaint
Mr T complains that Arrow Global Limited didnt notify him that is was seeking to obtain a 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) against him in relation to a debt hed accrued. Hed like the 
debt written off.
What happened
Mr T tells us that he didnt receive any notice from Arrow that it was bringing court 
proceedings against him in respect of an unpaid debt. He says that hes on benefits and can 
only afford a nominal payment of £1 each month. Hed like the debt written off.
Arrow explained that it had acquired the account in 2015. The debt having arisen from a 
credit card agreement which Mr T had previously had with a business Ill call H. Arrow said 
that it had asked different agents to contact Mr T to seek repayment of the debt. And that 
between May 2017 and March 2019 the account had been serviced by a business Ill refer to 
as R. It stated that R had written to the last known address it had for Mr T. But when it 
didnt receive any replies  and no mail had been returned  it issued court proceedings. 
And it said this had resulted in a default judgment being entered in July 2017.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that Arrow 
and its agents had made numerous attempts to contact Mr T. And that she felt he ought to 
have been aware that as he hadnt been making payments, there was a responsibility to deal 
with this. And that he shouldve notified Arrow of any changes of address. She thought Arrow 
had taken reasonable steps before issuing court proceedings. And she didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.
Mr T said hed like the matter reviewed by an ombudsman. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that when Mr T complained, he also expressed concern about how Arrow was 
trying to collect the debt. Ive seen that another ombudsman dealt with that aspect of the 
complaint. So I shant be looking at that issue again. Instead Ill concentrate on what 
happened before the CCJ was made.
Im sorry that Mr T has been experiencing financial difficulties. And I accept that debt can be 
stressful and difficult to handle.
When a customer gets into arrears with a debt, wed expect the business which owns that 
debt to seek to contact the customer. And to try to find the reason for the arrears.  
Dependent upon the circumstances wed expect it to try to work with the individual to agree 
means by which the debt could be affordably and sustainably repaid.
Having said that, there are also some obligations on the customer, one of which is to keep 
the business updated with any change of contact details. This would include changes in 
address and phone number if applicable.
After Arrow acquired the debt it obtained an updated address for Mr T in September 2016. 
And from that time it and its agents sent all correspondence to that address. Ive seen copies 
of various letters including those advising that solicitors were being instructed and court 
proceedings could result if the debt was unpaid. And Ive seen a copy of the claim form.
Whilst Ive seen evidence to show these letters were sent, Ive no documentary confirmation 
to show that they were delivered. But as R has indicated that it didnt receive any returned 
mail its a reasonable inference that the letters were delivered. 
As far as Im aware its accepted that as Mr T had moved, its unlikely that he received any of 
the correspondence. And even though he said hed left a forwarding address that would 
presumably be dependent upon the goodwill of the current occupant to send letters on. 
Im satisfied that Arrow made reasonable attempts to contact Mr T and to advise him of its 
intended actions. 
Whilst I cant comment on the court proceedings directly, I am aware that the Civil Procedure 
Rules allow in certain circumstances for the service of claims to be sent to the last known 
address of the defendant (Mr T). 
Its then a matter for the court to determine if the claimant (Arrow) had made sufficient 
attempts to make Mr T aware of the proceedings. Presumably here the court was satisfied, 
as a default judgment was entered against Mr T.
Its also possible for a defendant who wasnt aware of proceedings to make an application 
for the CCJ to be set aside. Although as this debt apparently isnt disputed, I accept that its 
unlikely any such application wouldve been of any benefit to Mr T. 
Whilst I accept that its not pleasant to be subject of a CCJ, I doubt if Mr T not being aware of 
the proceedings made any material difference to the outcome. The debt is not disputed and 
Mr T is unable to repay it within the foreseeable future. It seems probable that even had 
Arrow been able to contact Mr T before taking proceedings, that it wouldve concluded that 
obtaining a CCJ was the best way to try to secure payment at some later time . And it seems 
improbable that even if Mr T had been aware of the proceedings that hed have been able to 
provide a successful defence.
In summary, I find that Arrow took all reasonable steps to notify Mr T of the actions it 
proposed to take in its attempt to collect this debt. And as Im not finding it did anything 
wrong, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman