DRN-4109968
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr F bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in July 2018. The purchase 
was funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, Mr F alleges that the supplier misled Mr F into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr F signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Mr F says he was led to believe. So, the investigator did 
not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr F disagreed but didnt provide any reasons for doing so. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr F could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr F and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano. And 
section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr F was provided with the sales documents, and it seems likely that he 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
There is a one-page document that sets out the estimated benefits provided by the solar 
panel system right next to the cost of the system. Some basic details of the finance were 
also recorded on here, so I think Mr F was aware hed be taking out finance. None of these 
figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And Mr F has 
signed this document on the same day as the credit agreement. 
I think its clear that Mr Fs first year benefit is between £351.39 to £459.31. 
The payment details section is right next to the estimated benefit and sets out that Mr F 
system cost £8,275 and that hed be taking a 120-month (i.e., 10-year) loan with Ikano to 
fund the purchase of the system. Mr F signed immediately beneath this section. 
On the same day, Mr F also signed the credit agreement which also set out the cash price of 
£8,275. It went on to show that Mr Fs monthly payment was £99.08, the total amount 
payable was £11,889.03, as well as the term of the loan which was 120-months (i.e., 10-
years). 
Usually, the sales documentation reflects the nature of the discussions that took place at the 
time of sale. So, I think its likely the supplier discussed the estimated benefit the system 
would likely produce as well as clearly setting out the cost. I also think its clear that to repay 
a loan for £8,275 over 10 years, Mr F would need at least £827.50 to meet the annual 
repayments of the loan (without even including interest and charges), and the maximum first 
year benefit of £459.31 falls significantly short of that. I also think its apparent that 12 
payments of £99, amounts to more than £459. 
Overall, I think its more likely that it would have been clear to him that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding in the way he says he was told they would be. If Mr F had been 
told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would have expected 
him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he did, so I think 
that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Fs understanding, at that 
time. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Fs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Mr F has made some additional points regarding whether Ikano carried out appropriate 
credit checks and whether it ensured pressure wasnt applied. But as explained by Ikano, Mr 
F was provided with a cooling off period which I would have expected him to utilise if he 
didnt want the system but had been pressured into signing the agreement on the day. 
Pressure can also be subjective, and Mr F hasnt provided any detail as to why he feels he 
was subjected to undue pressure. Additionally, Ikano set out the credit checks Ikano carried 
out, and Mr Fs transaction history showed he maintained the payments following the loan 
being granted. I therefore havent seen anything that suggests the loan was unaffordable. 
So, these points dont change my view of the complaint. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140 the Act.  A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. As explained by Ikano in its response to Mr Fs complaint, it has 
confirmed that it paid no commission to the supplier and, considering that I havent found 
any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair 
relationship under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr F 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Ikano acted unfairly by declining Mr Fs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman