DRN-2351069
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to a credit card account he 
had some years ago with another company Y and for which Barclays later became 
responsible when Ys business was transferred to them. Mr V also complains of subsequent 
communication difficulties and a default being registered against his credit file.
What happened
Mr V held a credit card with Y. All of Ys business including Mr Vs account was transferred 
to Barclays, and in 2011 Mr V said he tried to settle the amount on his account but couldnt 
because he didnt have a Barclaycard account number. He thought that wouldve been sent 
to his old address. Mr V said Barclays wouldnt deal with him by email and so he continued 
to make the minimum payments to his account in order to stop a negative credit rating being 
applied. During 2013 Mr V moved abroad and kept up with the minimum payments. 
Mr V then stopped making payments in December 2018 as he thought he wouldve paid off 
any outstanding balance. But in fact, there remained a balance outstanding and Barclays 
pursued Mr V for repayment. Mr V contacted Barclays on the telephone but was told he 
would need to use a postal service or a fax as a method of communication. Mr V said he 
didnt have access to fax and that setting up a post box number in the part of the world he 
was in at that time, would have proven very expensive and disproportionate. 
As no further payments were made to Mr Vs account, it was ultimately defaulted in June 
2019, and his credit rating adversely affected, which he thinks is unfair.
Mr V also complains that Barclays are not providing accessible forms of communication for 
its customers who find themselves in a position such as his. He argues there is no good 
reason for Barclays to restrict its customers to antiquated, inaccessible and insecure 
mechanisms of communication.
Barclays didnt accept his complaint and said that it had recorded the default correctly since 
payments had been missed and the account defaulted. They also rejected Mr Vs complaint 
that they wouldnt deal with him because he didnt have a Barclaycard number as they said 
they wouldve been able to locate his account from his personal details. Barclays also 
rejected the complaint about not communicating by email arguing that email was an insecure 
method of communication.
Mr V was unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr V didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A starting point here is that in 2011 Mr Vs account was registered to an address in the UK. I 
havent seen any evidence to show that Mr V notified Barclays he was leaving the country or 
that he provided any change of address details. Consequently, the only postal address 
details Barclays held were those on its system from 2011 until Barclays tracing agents 
located a new UK address for Mr V, and that wasnt until 2019.
All customers accounts are governed by the terms and conditions. These clearly stated that 
it is a customers responsibility to keep Barclays updated with their address and contact 
details, as well as notifying them if they are to live overseas. There is no evidence to show 
that Mr V did that. It follows that Barclays would continue to send communications to the 
address on its system, as it could do no other.  I accept that Mr V would not receive such 
communications, but I cant criticise Barclays for that since it had no alternative address to 
send them to.
I do understand why Mr V would think that it was possible to communicate by email as an 
alternative, and that communication by post or fax is antiquated, but I have no power to 
direct that a business should change their policy or procedures or adopt any particular 
method of communication. I can only look at the circumstances of the individual complaint 
and check a business has followed its rules and procedures and is applying them fairly to all 
customers. And Barclays have. Barclays are entitled to make the commercial decision that it 
will not communicate by email with its customers for reasons of security if it wishes, and I 
cant say they are therefore acting unreasonably.
Barclays have rejected the complaint that they refused to discuss Mr Vs account with him 
because he did not have the correct Barclaycard number. There is no evidence of such a 
phone call which could settle the point one way or the other, but there is evidence of a call 
Mr V made in May 2020 when Barclays were able to locate his account by using other 
personal information. With that in mind it is more likely than not that had Mr V been unable to 
provide an account number, Barclays would have been able to locate his account in a similar 
way to that in May 2020. So, I think it unlikely Barclays said they couldnt access Mr Vs 
account when he rang. 
The default was registered to Mr Vs credit file because he missed payments. Registering 
the default by Barclays was therefore correct because they were reporting the factual 
position. A secondary issue arises as to why he missed his payments, and the reason is, as 
Mr V himself has said, that he thought he had paid off the balance. Whilst he may have 
thought that to be the case, clearly it wasnt, and the responsibility still lay with Mr V to keep 
making payments until the balance was cleared.
I understand that Mr Vs argument is that he was unable to effectively communicate with 
Barclays in order to find out the balance, but Im satisfied that he could have done so had he 
provided the alternative information I mention above. 
Im not satisfied there was any obstacle to Mr V being able to find out the balance over the 
telephone. In addition to that, letters were sent to Mr V at the address Barclays held for him, 
warning him of the likely consequences of failing to make payments and those werent 
heeded. Of course, I recognise that Mr V says these were never received by him, but that is 
most likely because he had not provided Barclays with his correct address details. Whilst I 
can understand that there might be an expense in opening a PO Box number in a foreign 
country, and thus Mr V would be reluctant to do that, I cannot say that renders Barclays 
policy unfair. It remains for Mr V to manage his account.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman