DRN-3040599
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) increased his 
payment following a second payment deferral period, granted as a result of the Coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 26 July 2018, Mr G was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid a deposit of £800 and the agreement was for £35,070.24 over 48 months; 
with 47 monthly repayments of £495.52 and a final optional payment of £11,780.80 if he 
wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
Mr G contacted BMW in April 2020, to ask for assistance because his income had been 
affected Covid-19. And, on 6 May 2020, he asked BMW for a payment deferral (also known 
as a payment holiday). BMW granted this request, to cover the payments due for May, June 
and July 2020.
Because his income was still being affected by Covid-19, on 24 July 2020, Mr G asked BMW 
for another 3-month payment deferral. They also granted this, to cover the payments due in 
August, September and October 2020.
On 14 August 2020, BMW wrote to Mr G to tell him that they would be extending his 
agreement by six months. They explained that Mr G would still have use of the car during 
the term extension, and that his payments would increase by £55.98 a month. And they 
explained this was as a result of additional depreciation on the car as a result of the 
extension to the term.
Mr G wasnt happy with this, as BMW hadnt told him about the increased payment when 
they approved the second payment deferral. BMW didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr G 
brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought that BMW had acted reasonably by extending the agreement by six 
months and, in effect, only charging Mr S an additional three months payments for doing so. 
So, he didnt think BMW needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he wouldnt have accepted the second 
payment deferral if BMW had made him aware of the implications for doing so - the 
additional charges - upfront. And hes asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr G was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 
27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. This guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a 
payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is 
obviously not in the customers interest to do so. And, in July 2020, the FCA allowed a 
further 3-months payment deferral for customers who still faced payment difficulties.
A payment deferral is not a waiver of the payments that are due under the agreement. These 
payments still need to be paid, either by spreading them over the remaining term of the 
agreement; or, as was the case with Mr G, by extending the term of the agreement, and 
continuing to collect payments during that term extension.
The basic facts of this complaint arent in dispute. Mr G made requests for payment deferrals 
in April and July 2020, which BMW assessed and granted. With each payment deferral, 
BMW extended the term of the agreement, instead of increasing the payments over the 
remaining term of the existing agreement. But, with the second payment deferral, they also 
increased the monthly payments to account for depreciation.
Ive seen a copy of the letter BMW sent to Mr G on 14 August 2020. Crucially, this letter was 
sent before 24 August 2020  before the second payment deferral period was due to start. 
This letter confirmed Gs request for a further payment deferral had been granted. It also 
said the agreement would be extended for an additional six months, and that the monthly 
payments would continue throughout the extension period. It also explained that the monthly 
payments would increase by £55.98 (to account for additional depreciation on the car) but 
that the optional final payment would reduce from £11,780.80 to £10,325.21  the value of 
the increased payments. So, if Mr G opted to keep the car at the end of the agreement, he 
would be paying exactly what he wouldve done under the original agreement.
The letter also asked Mr G to get in touch with BMW if he had any concerns, and said if we 
do not hear from you within 14 days from the date of this letter, we will assume that you are 
happy to proceed on the terms set out above.
Mr G didnt contact BMW until 19 September 2020, when he said he wasnt happy with the 
additional payments. And he asked for these to be removed. In reply, on the same day, 
BMW gave a further explanation as to why the payments were increasing. They also 
explained that, if Mr G wasnt happy with this, he could still cancel the second payment 
deferral period, and resume normal monthly payments.
Ive also seen that Mr G requested a third payment deferral period from BMW on 21 October 
2020. But BMW rejected this, as they couldnt offer any more that two deferral periods under 
the FCA guidelines.Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that BMW acted within the FCA guidelines for 
payment deferrals resulting from Covid-19. They wrote to Mr G to confirm the terms of the 
second payment deferral period, before this came into effect. And they explained to him that, 
if he wasnt happy with these terms, then he didnt have to accept them.
Mr G has said that, had he known the terms in advance, he wouldnt have accepted them. 
But Im satisfied that he was advised of the terms in advance  around two weeks before 
August 2020 payment was due to be deferred. And, when he contacted BMW about these 
(around three weeks after the date theyd given him to accept the terms), BMW also gave 
him the option to reject the second payment deferral, and resume payments. But Mr G chose 
not to do so, continuing with this payment deferral, and asking for a further deferral once the 
second period had ended.
So, while I appreciate that Mr G remains unhappy with the terms he was offered, Im 
satisfied that BMW made these clear to him before the second payment deferral period 
started. And Im also satisfied that Mr G had the option not to accept the second payment 
deferral period, both before and after itd started.
Because of the above, I dont think BMW have done anything wrong, and I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman