DRN-1627223
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about guarantor loans granted to him by Everyday Loans Limited 
trading as GeorgeBanco.com (EDL or the lender). Mr W says the loans were unaffordable 
and it was irresponsible of EDL to have provided them.
 What happened
EDL agreed two loans for Mr W: a loan of £1,600 in May 2015 and a second of £3,000 in 
August 2016. The first loan was to be repaid over three years with monthly repayments of 
about £86. The second loan was used to partially repay the first and was also to be repaid 
over three years with monthly repayments of about £146. The loans were secured by a 
guarantor. 
Mr W says that he could not afford the repayments for either loan and that EDL would not 
have agreed to lend to him, had it carried out a proper assessment of his financial 
circumstances each time. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
recommended that EDL refund all repayments Mr W paid above the total capital granted, 
along with 8% simple interest per annum. 
EDL didnt agree that it was irresponsible when it lent to Mr W because it says all the 
necessary checks were carried out prior to agreeing his loans.  So the complaint has come 
to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I am upholding Mr Ws complaint in full for broadly the same reasons our 
adjudicator did. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for EDL and I hope my 
explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when EDL lent to Mr W. Its rules 
and guidance obliged EDL to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that EDL needed to take reasonable and proportionate 
steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a 
sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. Repaying debt in a sustainable 
manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal income while meeting normal 
outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these repayments. 
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an 
appropriate assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The 
FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation, amongst other factors. 
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the borrower. 
In other words the assessment needs to be borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of recouping its money, but of the risk to the borrower of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend. So even in this case, where Mr W had provided security for his loan in the 
form of a guarantee and indemnity agreement, this didnt absolve EDL of its obligation to 
assess whether in the first instance Mr W could meet his repayments without undue difficulty 
over the term of the loans.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the borrower. Therefore, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness 
would likely need to be flexible  what is appropriate for one person might not be for another, 
or indeed what might be sufficient for a borrower in one circumstance might not be so for the 
same borrower in other circumstances.  
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ws case, I have considered the 
following questions:
did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ws loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did EDL make fair lending decisions?
did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks?
EDL says it gathered information from Mr W about his income and his rent. It calculated an 
amount for his general living expenses and gathered some information about his existing 
credit commitments from his credit file. The customer records show that Mr W was running a 
household and had a dependent. EDL provided some of the information it used in its 
assessment for his first loan and Ive summarised this below (with numbers rounded). Income £1,650
Rent £500
Creditor repayments £388
Calculated living expenses (% of income) £579
Cost of EDL loan 1 £86
Remaining or disposable income £97
EDL says that its assessment showed that the monthly loan repayments of about £86 would 
be affordable for Mr W. I note, however, that its calculations showed that Mr W would have a 
relatively low amount left over each month to meet any one-off or seasonal expenses, or 
indeed any likely increases in expense over the three year lifetime of the credit agreement. I 
dont think it was fair to make a lending decision on this basis, given Mr Ws circumstances, 
without taking further steps to verify the information it had about his income and expenditure. 
In addition, Mr W had explained that the purpose of the loan was partly to repay debts which 
were in default. EDL has provided the results of its credit file check from around that time 
and it shows that Mr W had about £1,000 of historic debt, which it doesnt seem hed been 
making any inroads into. I appreciate that having some historic debt isnt automatically a 
barrier to taking on further credit. However, in this case, given the loan purpose, I think EDL 
ought to have taken further steps to check that Mr W would be able to meet its repayments 
sustainably, given he wasnt potentially able to clear his existing debts without borrowing 
again.
So, altogether, I dont think the checks EDL carried out on this occasion were proportionate 
and it needed to do more in order to reasonably assess the risk to Mr W of not managing to 
meet his repayments sustainably. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and did EDL make fair 
lending decisions?
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint because she found it would be unlikely that hed be 
able to meet his repayments for his first loan sustainably, based on the relatively low amount 
hed have left over each month. I agree with that likelihood, bearing in mind that
Mr W needed to meet this level of repayment each month for three years and that the lender 
knew that he had a dependent. 
Mr W has provided copies of his bank statements. To be clear, I dont think EDL ought to 
have asked Mr W for these in order to make its lending decision. But in order to make a fair 
lending decision I think it needed to do more than it did to assess the sustainability of the 
loans for him. Ive considered what I think EDL was likely to learn, had it carried out a 
proportionate check and I think Mr Ws bank statements are a reasonable proxy for that 
information. 
I can see from these that Mr Ws income was around what hed told EDL but his living 
expenses were higher and that he was spending a considerable amount repaying existing 
debt  for example hed repaid several thousand pounds to a credit card over the previous 
two months. Its also clear that Mr W was spending regular amounts on what appear to be 
gambling transactions, either directly from his bank account or via online payment systems. 
Other available information shows that Mr Ws historic debts were higher than they appeared 
on EDLs credit search results and that hed taken out another guarantor loan the previous 
month. 
Had EDL considered fully the information it had and enquired further into Mr Ws financial 
affairs, I think it would have understood that there was a risk that he would not be able to meet his repayments for the loan over the lifetime of the agreement in a sustainable manner. 
And so I find that it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him on this occasion.
Mr W took out a second loan with EDL about a year later, in August 2016. Our adjudicator 
upheld his complaint about this loan because it was used to repay his first loan and as such 
would not have been granted if the first one hadnt. I understand that it was used in part to 
repay his first loan and have considered the matter further. 
EDL says that Mr W told it his income was now £1,700 and it checked his credit file and 
calculated an amount of living expenses, as with his first loan. EDL concluded that Mr W 
would have an amount of about £130 left over each month having paid all his expenses, 
including its loan. 
EDL provided the results of a credit search, which appears to have been carried out
mid-2017, about a year after this second loan was granted. I can see from this that Mr Ws 
finances hadnt improved by the time of his second loan and it seems he was yet more 
indebted. Not only had some of his historic defaults remained unpaid, he had a default from 
the previous year and had recently taken on new credit from several lenders, including high 
cost and short term lenders, amounting to over £7,000. The credit record shows that hed 
recently had an arrangement to pay in place on one of his loans, which seems to be EDLs 
first loan. 
As before, I think had EDL considered fully the information it had available and enquired 
further into Mr Ws financial affairs, it would have learned that there was a risk that he would 
not be able to meet his repayments for the loan over the lifetime of the agreement in a 
sustainable manner. And so I find that it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him on 
this occasion also. 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr W has explained that his struggles with his financial affairs had a very serious impact on 
his health. I understand he made EDL aware of the extent of this when he first complained to 
it. I dont doubt that Mr W has had a very difficult time of it and I am sorry to hear of this. I 
have considered whether any compensation should be awarded to him because of the 
serious difficulties hes had to deal with. However, neither EDL nor Mr W have said anything 
which makes me think the lender might ,or should, have been aware of his health issues 
either when it agreed to lend to him or during the course of his loans. So I will follow this 
Services usual approach to redressing irresponsible lending decisions, which Ive set out in 
detail below.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr W. Where we find a 
loan to have been agreed irresponsibly, this Services approach to putting things right is to 
refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower. In addition, we usually direct the 
lender to pay a refund of 8% per annum simple interest on these payments where the 
borrower was unfairly deprived of their money.  Wed expect the borrower to repay the 
capital borrowed as they have had the use of these funds. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital amounts he 
borrowed for his loans agreed in May 2015 and August 2016.
To put things right for Mr W, EDL should:a. Consider all payments made by Mr W as payments towards the combined capital 
amount;
b. If Mr W has made payments above this combined capital amount then these should 
be refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid  to the date of settlement*;
c. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, then 
EDL needs to treat Mr W sympathetically and fairly, which might include coming to a 
new arrangement about how best to repay this;
d. Remove any negative information from Mr Ws credit file in relation to these loans, 
once settled.
I understand some of Mr Ws second loan was used to repay his first. I dont know if Mr W 
has fully repaid his second loan or if any balance has been sold to a third-party. In the event, 
EDL should work with the third-party to bring about the above steps.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com) to put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman