DRN-1741937
The complaint 
Mr G complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent irresponsibly 
to him. 
Background
Between June 2017 and April 2018, Mr G borrowed seven loans from Sunny. His borrowing 
history is set out below. 
Loan No Date Taken Date closedAmount 
takenNo of 
Instalments
1 12/06/2017 15/08/2017 100 6
2 28/06/2017 15/12/2017 100 6
3 06/09/2017 15/09/2017 100 6
4 12/09/2017 13/10/2017 50 6
5 26/09/2017 15/11/2017 200 6
6 18/12/2017 15/02/2018 400 6
7 10/04/2018 18/04/2018 350 6
 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of all seven loans. For 
loans 1 to 5, she thought that Sunny should have realised that Mr Gs disposable income 
was so limited that he couldnt sustainably repay his loans. In respect of loans 6 and 7, she 
thought the pattern of Mr Gs borrowing was otherwise harmful. 
Sunny didnt agree with our adjudicators view. So the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr G should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
I can see that when Mr G applied for loan 1, Sunny asked him about his income and 
expenditure. From the information that was provided and before his potential repayments to 
Sunny were taken into account, Mr Gs disposable income was said to be £90. When his 
repayments for loan 1 were taken into account, his spare money at the end of each month 
was less than £60. 
I agree with our adjudicator that over the intended six month repayment period, it seems 
unlikely to me that Mr G would have been able to make his repayments without having to 
borrow further. For the same reasons, although I appreciate the figures vary a little, I dont 
think hed have been able to sustain his repayments in respect of loans 2 to 5.  
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of the lending history with a view to seeing if there was 
a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. If that were so, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Gs case, I agree with our adjudicator that this point 
was reached by loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr G was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. He had taken six loans out in six months.  So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not that Mr G was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr Gs first loan was for £100 and loan 6 was for £400. At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Mr G was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need. 
 
Mr G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 6 was 
taken out six months after the first. And it was for a significantly larger amount. Mr G 
 had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
 
I think that Mr G lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Gs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint and Sunny will need to take action to put things right. 
 
Putting things right 
Sunny must: 
refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 1 to 7
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 5 from Mr Gs credit file;
 
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr 
Gs credit file.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint about Elevate Credit International Limited and require it to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman