DRN-3414144
The complaint
Mrs R says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan provided by Dot Dot Loans to Mrs R in April 2021. The loan 
was for £3000 and was to be repaid by Mrs R over 36 months. Mrs R has told our service 
recently, that she has called Dot Dot Loans to repay the outstanding balance.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Rs complaint and thought Dot Dot Loans. Mrs R 
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me. Mrs R has also raised a complaint about 
negative information being recorded on her credit file and also with how long it has taken Dot 
Dot Loans to deal with her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Rs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Dot Dot Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs R would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs R wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Dot Dot Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Dot Dot Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Dot Dot Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs 
R. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mrs R undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Dot Dot Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Did Dot Dot Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs R 
would be able to repay loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Dot Dot Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mrs R it carried out a 
credit check and asked her for details about her income and expenditure. It verified Mrs Rs 
income and also went through the credit check to look through Mrs Rs credit commitments. 
It then calculated what it thought was Mrs Rs disposable income to see if the loan 
repayments were affordable. Based on those checks Dot Dot Loans thought it was fair to 
lend.
Based on the amount that Mrs R borrowed, the repayment and term of loan, I think the 
checks were reasonable and proportionate. Those checks suggested to Dot Dot Loans the 
loan was affordable and Mrs R could sustain the repayments over the term. With the 
information it had in front of it, it would have seen that the repayments for this loan were 
sustainably affordable. 
I appreciate Mrs R has said that the loan was unaffordable and that she had difficulties with 
her finances at the time. But I dont think this is something Dot Dot Loans knew or ought to 
have known about from what I consider to be proportionate checks. 
Did Dot Dot Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs R says that she agreed a repayment plan with Dot Dot Loans and had stuck to what was 
agreed. She says Dot Dot Loans reported that she was in arrears on her loan and this was 
showing on her credit file. She says it didnt say that it would do this when they agreed the 
payment plan. She says she wouldve found a way to pay what was owed and not have Dot 
Dot Loans reporting that she was in arrears. She says Dot Dot Loans should remove that she was in arrears from her credit report as she would be better off now if it had told her 
what it was going to do. 
I have looked into what has happened here. I can see that Dot Dot Loans has said in its final 
response that it didnt advise Mrs R about reporting arrears to credit agencies, when it set up 
a payment plan. But I dont think it did anything wrong here. Dot Dot Loans were entitled to 
report accurately the status of the loan account with credit agencies. Mrs R was in a 
payment plan and was accruing arrears on a monthly basis, based on what was originally 
agreed in the terms of the loan agreement.
Mrs R has also made a complaint about Dot Dot Loans handling of her complaint but I 
havent been able to find any wrong doing after looking through the documentation provided 
by both parties. 
In conclusion, I dont think Dot Dot Loans acted unfairly when it reported arrears on the 
account to credit agencies and I am unable to conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in any other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman