DRN-4248307
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he was given by Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited 
when he was considering transferring the benefits in his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) into a personal pension arrangement.
What happened
Mr W had a deferred OPS with his previous employer. This had a transfer value (CETV) of 
approximately £180,000. He also had a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) held with a 
business Ill refer to as [X]. This contained funds which were valued at approximately 
£915,000 and the investments were managed by a discretionary fund manager (DFM) who 
Ill refer to as [Y].
Mr W had an independent financial adviser (IFA) with whom he discussed the possibility of 
transferring the benefits of his OPS into his SIPP, but because of the value of the 
safeguarded benefits in this OPS, Mr W was required to obtain formal transfer advice. 
His previous employer had an arrangement with Wren Sterling that it would pay Wren 
Sterlings fees if it gave pension transfer advice regarding an OPS it held. So Mr W 
approached Wren Sterling to obtain transfer advice as this would be provided on a no-cost 
basis to him.
Wren Sterling sent Mr W a pack of documents to read and complete prior to the initial 
telephone consultation, which occurred on 22 April 2022. During this call Mr Ws financial 
and personal circumstances were discussed, along with his objectives and attitude to risk 
(ATR). As a result of this meeting Mr W signed a letter of authority (LOA) which was sent to 
his SIPP provider [X] authorising it to provide Wren Sterling with details of his SIPP and 
investments. But due to an error by Wren Sterling this LOA was sent to the wrong address 
and was not received by [X], and the correctly addressed LOA was not received by [X] until 
2 June 2022.
The information Wren Sterling required from [X] was received on 11 July 2022 and the final 
recommendation report was sent to Mr W on 22 July 2022. This recommended that Mr W 
transfer the benefits of his OPS to Aviva in a flexible drawdown arrangement, and to invest 
in its Pension Portfolio. Wren Sterling recommended this over a transfer into his existing 
SIPP arrangement as it said the charges in the existing SIPP would be higher than its 
recommended options.
Mr W had a telephone meeting with Wren Sterling to discuss the recommendation on 
12 August 2022. Mr W didnt agree with the recommendation and said he had made clear 
from the start that he wanted the transfer to be made into his existing SIPP.
Mr W complained to Wren Sterling on 6 October 2022. In summary, he said:
There had been unnecessary delays throughout the process;
The Wren Sterling recommended scheme with Aviva was contrary to Mr Ws goal of 
transferring into his existing SIPP;
Given the length of time the process took, his pension value had dropped by over 
£30,000 due to the fluctuation of the CETV;
Wren Sterling should sign the appropriate documentation to say it had provided Mr W 
with financial advice.
In its final response letter, dated 2 November 2022, Wren Sterling didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. It said, in summary, that it was required to not only consider the suitability of the 
transfer, but to also consider the suitability of the provider and funds. And it had made clear 
at the start of the process that if Mr W did not accept its advice, it would not engage him as 
an insistent client. It acknowledged it had caused some unnecessary delays in the process, 
but its final recommendation was brought about by both the fact that Mr Ws existing DFM 
was not on its panel of approved providers, and also a comparison in costs between his 
SIPP, with its DFM arrangement, and that provided by Aviva. The Aviva arrangement would 
be cheaper and therefore overall offered better value for money. However, in recognition of 
the times it could have been more proactive in keeping him updated and managing his 
expectations, it offered him £250 compensation.
Mr W did not accept this outcome and referred his complaint to our Service where it was 
considered by an Investigator. And having done so, our Investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought Wren Sterling hadnt treated Mr W unfairly, as it had made its policy 
on insistent clients clear from the start. He also didnt think Wren Sterling had given Mr W 
unsuitable advice, even though it wasnt what Mr W had wanted.
There was further correspondence between Mr W and our Investigator who ultimately didnt 
change his view. So as no agreement could be reached the matter has been escalated to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is clearly a matter of importance to Mr W, given his desire to manage his own pension 
funds how he wants to. And the introduction of Pensions Freedoms in 2015 was intended to 
allow more people to do just that. However, to protect the valuable safeguarded benefits 
contained in some OPSs, the legislation required existing providers (the OPS) to ensure, 
where the plan was worth in excess of £30,000 the consumer has received regulated advice 
before they gave up those safeguarded benefits by transferring.
Mr W has made several complaint points, including the length of time the process took, that 
Wren Stirling didnt communicate with him clearly, that it treated him unfairly and that the 
final recommendation was unreasonable. And he thinks that his CETV has lost value during 
the time the process took. And whilst I will consider all of these, in deciding this complaint 
Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the matter, rather than commenting on 
every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr W, rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. The heart of this complaint is whether Wren 
Stirling acted fairly and reasonably in both the advice process and its final recommendation. 
Mr W already had an IFA with whom hed discussed the possibility of transferring the 
benefits of his OPS into his existing SIPP. And Mr W has said that had his IFA made a 
formal recommendation this would have cost Mr W about £7,500. But his former employers, 
with whom he held the OPS, had an agreement with Wren Sterling that it would provide transfer advice at no cost to the consumer. So this was clearly an attractive option to Mr W, 
and it is unsurprising that he took this up.
But irrespective of who was paying Wren Sterling for this advice, it still had certain 
responsibilities to Mr W during the process. There is extensive regulation around services 
like those provided by Wren Sterling for Mr W. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental 
obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include: 
Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence. 
Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers. 
Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Wren Sterling. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint. 
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes advising on 
investmentsin respect of pension transfers. 
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), published a checklist for 
pension switching that I think is still helpful today. Although it was primarily aimed at 
switches, I think it served to highlight the main issues which could arise in transfers as well, 
and it is reasonable to use the principles when deciding on the suitability of the receiving 
scheme. 
The checklist highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed on: 
Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason? 
Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early. 
Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances? 
Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place. 
And in 2014, following a previous alert in 2013, the FCA issued an alert outlining its specific 
stance on advice provided about SIPPs. This wasnt new guidance, it was the regulator re-
stating its position, and is still relevant:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then 
the overall advice is not suitable So this made clear that advisers could not restrict the advice they gave to the suitability of 
the transfer alone. They had to consider where the transferred funds were going and how 
these funds would be invested as a result. So both the transfer and arrangement had to be 
suitable for it to receive a positive recommendation. And having considered the suitability of 
the overall advice provided, Im satisfied Wren Sterling met the regulatory requirements 
placed on it. Ill explain why.
Was Mr W an insistent client?
The FCA has defined an insistent client as follows:
A client who has received a personal recommendation (advice) from the business;
Who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the 
business; and
Who wants the business to facilitate that transaction.
Having listened to the telephone calls between Mr W and Wren Sterling, and having read the 
evidence in this case, I can see Mr W entered into this process with his desired outcome 
firmly set in his own mind. He had already discussed this with his own IFA and I think it is 
likely that he thought it was just a matter of Wren Sterling rubber stamping the transfer. But 
given the stringent regulatory requirements, some of which Ive set out above, Wren Stirling 
were required to do a significant amount of work in order to enable it to come to an 
evidence-based and reasonable recommendation which would stand up to scrutiny. And it 
began this process with this initial telephone call when it completed the fact find. This is 
where Mr Ws personal and financial circumstances were recorded, along with his 
objectives, ATR and capacity for loss.
The majority of Mr Ws pension provision was held within his SIPP. The benefits in his OPS 
were minor in comparison and Mr W made it clear in the call that he was not relying on his 
OPS to provide his income in retirement. He was more concerned about providing death 
benefits to his wife should he pre-decease her, or his daughter, and he felt that transferring 
into a personal pension arrangement would provide better death benefits. He also wished to 
take £100,000 in tax-free cash. He was only entitled to take 25% of his pension fund tax-
free, so this would have needed to be funded from either his existing SIPP or a combination 
of the SIPP and the transfer value. And having listened to the call I can see that Mr W was 
aware of this, and stated his intention to take the £100,000 from his existing SIPP 
irrespective of whether his OPS was transferred or not. So Im satisfied that this objective 
could be safely discounted from the transfer considerations.
Ultimately Mr W wanted to consolidate his personal pensions into one place to simplify the 
arrangement, and improve on the death benefits available from his OPS. But in order to 
comply with the regulatory requirements, Wren Stirling, whilst being cognisant of his wishes 
when making its recommendation, was under no obligation to follow them. If it did not think 
what Mr W wanted to do was suitable it should not recommend it. And having listened to the 
initial call I can see Wren Stirling made Mr W aware of this at several points during the initial 
process when it explained its stance on insistent clients. In my view it made it sufficiently 
clear that should Mr W not agree with its recommendation, it would disengage from the 
process and it would not assist him as an insistent client. And it explained that this wasnt 
just limited to whether the transfer from his OPS was suitable  it included whether he 
agreed with the recommended fund destination. And as Ive said above, the 
recommendation had to consider both the transfer suitability, and where the funds would go 
and the associated investments. So although Wren Stirling recommended the transfer of the 
benefits held in Mr Ws OPS it recommended that they be transferred into a fund different to 
his existing SIPP. So as Mr W disagreed with the recommended destination of the funds he ultimately didnt agree with the whole transfer advice. As a result I consider Wren Stirling 
was fair when it classed Mr W as an insistent client. And Im also satisfied that Wren Stirling 
had made him sufficiently aware of the implications of this.
Was the advice to transfer and the recommended plan suitable?
The suitability of the advice to transfer the benefits within Mr Ws OPS into a personal 
pension has not been questioned  indeed, it was something that Mr W wanted and 
apparently still does. It is the recommended destination which is in dispute. Mr W wanted the 
funds transferred into his existing SIPP, but Wren Stirling recommended an alternative 
arrangement with a different provider - Aviva.
As Ive said above, Mr Ws objective of taking £100,000 tax-free cash can be safely 
discounted as he said he would take this from his existing SIPP whether the transfer was 
recommended or not. So the remaining objectives were to improve the death benefits and to 
consolidate his pension arrangement. I will take these objectives in turn:
I can see transferring into a personal pension arrangement would mean that the death 
benefits available to his nominated dependents would be improved on what was available in 
his OPS. Although the OPS provided a guaranteed spouses income for life, should Mr Ws 
wife pre-decease him these benefits would be lost. In a personal pension arrangement, in 
the event of his death, the remaining value of his fund would be paid to his beneficiary tax-
free. So I can understand why this arrangement was attractive to Mr W and would be a 
strong argument to recommend a transfer.
But I dont think Mr Ws wish to consolidate his pension into one arrangement was a 
particularly persuasive one. I say this because he already had an IFA, to whom he was 
paying for ongoing financial advice. So his pension arrangements were being managed by a 
finance professional and as such I cant see that how they were arranged was particularly 
significant to Mr W himself. And whilst I can understand Mr Ws wish to have some clarity 
about the total value of his fund, this could be arranged with his existing IFA.
The recommended plan with Aviva, with his funds being managed by a DFM was cheaper 
than Mr Ws existing SIPP. And as the FSA had said in its guidance, there had to be good 
reason for recommending a more expensive arrangement. And the only significant 
difference between Mr Ws SIPP and the recommended arrangement with Aviva was cost  
Mr Ws SIPP was considerably more expensive overall. Mr W has contended that the 
illustrated costs of his SIPP provided by Wren Stirling were exaggerated as they included its 
ongoing advice service which he would not have taken up. But I can see this charge was 
included in the illustration for both the SIPP and Aviva arrangement  so it ultimately made 
no difference to the cost comparison. Mr Ws SIPP was more expensive than the 
recommended arrangement with Aviva.
Mr W had agreed that his ATR when considering his OPS was 5 out of 7. This was 
described in the recommendation document as:
This indicated a preference for investments which included a balanced mix of high-risk 
investments such as shares and lower-risk and medium-risk investments such as cash and 
fixed interest.
And although this point hasnt been disputed, Ive looked at the portfolio which was 
recommended to be held with Aviva, and I can see it comprised 59% of growth assets. Im 
satisfied that this matched Mr Ws ATR and capacity for loss so was also suitable. 
Ive also considered whether I think it significant that Mr Ws existing DFM was not on Wren Stirlings panel of approved providers. And I dont. An IFA is permitted by the regulator to 
have a panel of approved providers if it ensures such a panel is sufficiently broad in its 
composition. Whilst I have seen the list used and have no reason to think it doesnt 
comply with the Regulators requirement, I think this is irrelevant here. I can see Wren 
Stirling did consider Mr Ws existing DFM even though it wasnt on its panel. And it was 
deemed unsuitable on the grounds of cost, not solely because it wasnt on the panel. And as 
Ive said above, I think the cost comparison was the significant factor here.
Its important to note that I consider that theres sometimes more than one product or 
approach that might meet the consumers circumstances and objectives. Another adviser 
might take a different approach, but that doesnt mean what was actually recommended was 
unsuitable. For me to find that Wren Stirling treated Mr W unfairly when it didnt recommend 
he transfer the benefits of his OPS into his SIPP, I would have to be satisfied that what it did 
recommend was unsuitable. And as Ive said, Im not satisfied that this was the case.
Mr W has said that his OPS CETV has lost about £30,000 as a result of the delays in this 
process. As Ive said above, the regulatory requirements when advising on this type of 
transfer mean they are complicated and necessitate a considerable amount of work to obtain 
and then assess the required information. And Mr W, apparently acting on the advice of his 
ex-employer and his IFA did not obtain a guaranteed CETV, so this was always going to 
fluctuate. It seems he was advised to do this because it would only be valid for three months, 
and it was likely that the process could take longer than that. So whilst I understand Mr Ws 
frustration that his CETV has apparently fallen (although Ive seen no evidence of this) this 
hasnt actually caused a financial loss as hes not transferred his OPS. 
However, I need to consider the service that Wren Stirling provided to Mr W. Wren Stirling, in 
its complaint response, has acknowledged that there were occasions during the process 
where it has caused unnecessary delays, particularly when it wrongly addressed the LOA to 
X. It also has said it could have been more proactive in keeping Mr W updated and 
managing his expectations. It is unclear what this particularly relates to, but having assessed 
the timeline of the process that Mr W has provided I think it is probably where Wren Stirling 
have not kept him updated on the delays and how and why the process was taking 
significantly longer than hed been led to believe. And I can see he was unable to speak to 
his adviser on a few occasions, and this was significant to him as the process was important. 
Wren Stirling has offered Mr W £250 compensation for this. I think this is fair and generally in 
line with the approach our Service takes in terms of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, so Im satisfied that it doesnt need to do anything in addition to this. 
My final decision
I require Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr W £250, if it hasnt already done 
so, for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman