DRN-2515566
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not provide him with its interest rate 
calculations and formula.
What happened
Mr M says he has asked HSBC to provide him with its calculation of the interest on his 
account. He says he would like the exact interest calculation formula and says based on his 
own calculations, that he hasnt been paid the correct amount. Mr M would like HSBC to 
explain its secrecy and doesnt believe the formula should be hidden. He would like HSBC to 
pay compensation for its mistake.
HSBC says it has given Mr M information about the interest rate but says it will not provide 
the exact calculations Mr M has asked for. It also says information on this is contained in the 
account terms and conditions and online. HSBC has offered Mr M £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill but now accepts that offer was made by mistake but will honour it.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC had provide a reasonable answer to Mr Ms questions and that it wasnt our 
role to order HSBC to disclose what may be commercially sensitive information. The 
investigator thought the goodwill offer fair and reasonable.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says he has given us information that we can 
use to check the interest calculations. He says his professional hourly charging rate is £120 
an hour and so should be awarded just over £1,000 compensation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint and find 
that HSBC has provided sufficient and reasonable information to Mr M. I appreciate that Mr 
M will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about this 
complaint.
I make clear to Mr M that we are not HSBCs regulator and so we cant order it to disclose 
the information Mr M would like. I also think it likely such information is commercially 
sensitive, and that HSBC is entitled to reasonably conclude that it will not share that 
information with its customers. I also make clear that we are not an auditing service and its 
not our role to check the interest calculations as Mr M would like. I appreciate Mr M has 
given us his calculations and would like us to carry out our own but that is not our role.
Im satisfied that HSBC has given Mr M appropriate information and details about the 
interest rates used and fairly directed him to its website and the account terms and 
conditions.
I can see that HSBC told us it would like to offer Mr M £50 compensation but now says that 
was a mistake. I dont think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant fairly 
order it to pay any compensation. But it remains open to Mr M to accept that offer as HSBC 
says it will honour it. I appreciate Mr M says he ought to be paid compensation in line with 
his hourly charging rate. But for the reasons I have explained I dont think compensation is 
justified here and in any event Mr M was not acting in his professional capacity when 
bringing this complaint to HSBC.
I accept Mr M is unlikely to accept my decision, but Im satisfied this brings an end to what 
we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman