DRN-4109930
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service provided by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) 
following a claim he made on his car insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr R took out a car insurance policy with Admiral in March 2022. The policy booklet 
explained that in the event of a claim We will decide how to settle your claim If we give 
you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle. 
The policy booklet defined Market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately 
before the loss happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was 
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
In November 2022 Mr Rs car was involved in an incident causing damage to the car. 
Admiral accepted Mr Rs claim and provided a value of £6,072.40 as the market value for his 
car (resulting in a payment of £5,572.40 to Mr R after his excess of £500 was applied). Mr R 
was unhappy with this amount and complained to Admiral. Mr R tried to contact Admiral 
asking them to respond, however he experienced difficulty speaking to a representative 
because of long queue waiting times. 
In response to Mr Rs complaint Admiral offered to increase the market value of his car to 
£7,525. Admiral agreed to pay Mr R the difference between this amount and the previous 
payment of £5,572.50 plus interest on this amount. Admiral also recognised the service 
theyd provided wasnt in line with their usual service standards. Admiral offered an 
additional £55 in recognition of the difficulty Mr R had experienced in trying to speak to 
someone during busy periods, and the distress caused to Mr R because of this. 
Mr R didnt accept Admirals offer to put things right and brought his complaint to this service 
for investigation. He was unhappy with the market value offered by Admiral. 
The investigator found that the service provided by Admiral fell short of what wed expect, 
but thought the calculation of the market value of Mr Rs car for £7,525 was in line with our 
approach, and the compensation offered for the poor level of service was also reasonable. 
The investigator didnt recommend any further compensation. Mr R didnt agree. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
R but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Market valuation 
The crux of Mr Rs complaint concerns the market value offered by Admiral for his car. Mr R 
says the true value of my vehicle equal to the other similar [cars], with identical trim and 
specification, and near identical mileage and registration date [is] valued at £8,499 at the 
time of my non-fault accident. 
We can only ask Admiral to do more to put things right if we find that theyve done something 
wrong, and not done enough to put things right. So Ive looked at the trade guides that we 
would usually refer to when dealing with complaints about market valuation. 
Trade guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling 
prices. They use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices 
wouldve been. We expect insurers to use trade guides when valuing a car for claims 
purposes. Based on the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, I think its fair that Admiral used 
the trade guides here. 
Weve checked four trade valuation guides commonly used to find out selling prices of a car 
of a similar make and model to Mr Rs, with a mileage of 118,776. The values returned from 
these guides show- £8,052 (Auto Trader), £7,525 (CAP), £7,302 (Cazoo), and £7,030 
(Glasss). The average value of these four values returned is £7,477.25.
Ive considered Mr Rs comments about adverts he found online similar to his own car. Mr R 
has specifically referred to a car he found with mileage of 105,527 on sale for £8,499. The 
mileage on this car is materially lower than the average mileage calculated for Mr Rs car of 
118,776. So I dont think the comparison is like for like as Mr R says. 
The valuation offered by Admiral is £7,525 (using the valuation returned by CAP). This is 
higher than the average market valuation using the four trade guides. From the trade guides 
Ive looked at, and the values returned for Mr Rs car, I think Admirals decision on the 
valuation to pay Mr R for his car is fair. So I wont be asking Admiral to reconsider this. 
Calls to Admiral
Its not disputed that Admiral couldve done more to provide Mr R with a better level of 
customer service. I am persuaded by what Mr R has explained about the numerous attempts 
to contact Admiral, and the difficulty in speaking to a representative about his claim.  
When thinking about the impact on Mr R because of the delay in dealing with his claim, and 
difficulty in reaching Admiral, I think the £55 offered by Admiral amount in line with what wed 
recommend in the circumstances. Its clear Mr R tried to contact Admiral to sort things but he 
wasnt able to reach them.
 
Although I think Admiral couldve provided a better level of service, I think theyve done 
enough to put things right with the compensation paid of £55. This considers the contact 
made to Admiral, and the upset caused by Admirals lack of timely response. It also 
considers the response to Mr R within the eight weeks thats allowed for a business to 
respond to a complaint. So I wont be asking Admiral to pay anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that the offer to settle the complaint is fair and reasonable. So I wont be 
directing Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman