DRN-1641816
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt been transparent about the level 
of discount it offered when his car insurance policy was due for renewal.
What happened
In January 2020 Aviva issued renewal insurance documents to Mr W as his car insurance 
policy was due for renewal in February 2020. Mr W complained that Aviva had failed to 
display in the policy documents the discount hed received for the number of No Claims 
Bonus years hes accrued and for a positive driving score using an online driving app. Mr W 
wants Aviva to be more transparent about the level of discount its given him.
Our investigator explained that our role isnt to tell an insurer how to calculate a premium or 
what it should charge. Discounts and incentives are part and parcel of an insurers 
commercial decision when they offer insurance to customers. We can see if an insurer has 
treated its customer fairly by asking to see a breakdown of the premium it charged  but we 
cannot share that information with the customer as its business sensitive. 
As Aviva provided us with evidence of how it calculated the renewal premium for Mr Ws 
policy, the investigator thought Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. She explained that the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is responsible for regulating Aviva. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said he doesnt know how much for example he might get as a 
reduction in his premium if he reduces his mileage. He says its all smoke and mirrors.
As Mr W didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer can decide the risk it wishes to take on and the price it wants to charge for that 
risk. This isnt something we can interfere with as its a commercial decision every insurer 
can make  and it varies widely from insurer to insurer. This is why we as consumers find 
such a wide range in price on comparison websites when we look for a quote  even though 
the quote is based on the same information we have provided. This also applies to any 
discounts or incentives an insurer may offer.
The FCA doesnt regulate on the price insurers charge or the methods an insurer might use 
to calculate a price.
I understand Mr W wants Aviva to be transparent in its calculations of the discount it offered 
at renewal. However, an insurers pricing and risk criteria is commercially sensitive. So we 
cant ask it to share this information with customers. However, we can ask to see it to check 
that a customer has been treated fairly. In this case, Aviva has provided a breakdown of how 
it calculated Mr Ws premium at renewal. From the information provided Im satisfied that 
Aviva has treated Mr W in a fair way and as it would any customer in the same 
circumstances.
In Mr Ws renewal documents, Aviva said the price it was offering him included an online 
discount. And it let Mr W know that he may be able to get a better price at renewal if he 
shops around. So if Mr W didnt think the premium he was paying was competitive, he was 
made aware of the option to compare the premium Aviva offered with other insurers on the 
open market in good time before the renewal date. And Aviva will be able to provide Mr W 
with a quote if he asks for one for any changes he might want to make to his policy. But it 
isnt unreasonable of it not to disclose the method behind the price.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Aviva has acted reasonably. So I dont think it needs to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman