DRN-3766930
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about trading, and trades, in his account with eToro (UK) Ltd on 27 
January 2021 (the date). He says access to the account and the accounts functions were 
disrupted for around or over an hour  from around 14:30 (UK time) to around 15:30 (UK 
time)  during which his management of open trades was impossible. He says he was able 
to collate evidence (all based on UK times and USD prices) of impact on only the following 
five trades (but asserts there were others affected)  
Closure of a GME position eventually happened at 15:31, at price  279.33; but for 
the malfunction it would have been closed around the higher price of 348 around 
14:30; he lost profit in this trade. [T1]
Closure of a BB position eventually happened at 15:30, at price  21.26; but for the 
malfunction it would have been closed around the higher price of 23.39 around 
14:40; he lost profit in this trade. [T2]
Closure of a BBBY position eventually happened at 15:07, at price  46.64; but for 
the malfunction it would have been closed around the higher price of 53.90 around 
14:42; he lost profit in this trade. [T3]
Closure of an IRBT position happened at the wrong time due to panic caused by 
other malfunctioning at the time; it was closed at price  167.14; but for the 
circumstances, it would have been closed at a higher price around 194.97; he lost 
profit in this trade. [T4]
Closure of an FCX position was dependent on a stop loss setting he could neither 
access nor control at the time; but for the malfunction he would have adjusted the 
stop loss setting to manage the position; he could not do that, and he incurred a 
$2,126 loss of capital upon closure. [T5]
Mr S seeks compensation for lost profit and capital (as above).
What happened
The malfunctioning of eToros trading platform at the time is not in dispute. Mr S has shared 
ample evidence of this, including a screenshot of the platform (dated and timed 27/01/21 
15:19) showing a message that mainly said login to the platform was unavailable for some 
customers; trading actions were unavailable; the cause of the login malfunction had been 
identified and was being worked on; the trading platform had been set to maintenance mode 
whilst it was properly debugged and whilst the malfunction was being fixed; and customers 
could close positions through eToros backup trading tool website.
There was also an email from eToro to Mr S later on the date which confirmed its awareness 
of the malfunction, and the same has been repeated in its complaint related 
correspondence.
In its email, eToro invited Mr S to specify any affected trades in his account and offered to 
investigate them. He gave details of T1 to T5. eToro then responded as follows  
It would compensate Mr S for his loss in T5. It considered that the malfunction had 
directly caused this.
It would not uphold his claims for T1 to T4. It said T1, T2 and T3 were all affected by 
severe price volatility and widened spreads, which led to trading interruptions in the 
market and on its platform; so the malfunction did not directly affect these trades (but 
for a visual bug for T1 which made it appear open for a period after it had been 
closed); and T4 closed favourably to Mr S, the delay caused its closure at a price that 
was higher than the price he had initially requested, and that generated $4,914 extra 
profit for him.
Whilst the claim for T1 is declined, it acknowledges evidence that Mr S tried to close 
this position whilst it was unavailable and that, because of the visual bug, he did the 
same after it had already been closed. It accepted this would have caused him 
frustration and it credited his account with $500 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome and challenged eToro to substantiate its claims about T1 
to T3; he put specific questions to eToro in this respect; and, with regards to T4, he argued 
that but for the malfunction he would have made multiple trades in it (based on re-openings 
and closures) to take advantage of the price swings during the relevant period, so there 
remains a claim for lost profit in this context.
The matter was referred to this service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. She broadly agreed with eToros 
position. She also noted historical evidence from the New York Stock Exchange website 
about price volatility and a trade halt related to T1 on the date. The investigator found that 
the problem was therefore outside eToros control and that this made its $500 to Mr S 
generous, because she would not have awarded any compensation.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. He mainly said the references that have been made to 
price volatility do not explain the login failure he experienced on the date and at the time he 
sought to manage his trades; the closure orders would have been pending if price volatility 
was the issue, instead the system was malfunctioning overall; price volatility happened 
frequently but that had not previously caused a malfunction; the price volatility excuse also 
conflicts with the fact that other firms platforms did not malfunction at the time (despite their 
exposure to the same market/exchange); all his evidence of the malfunction has been 
ignored.
The case was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding of the case is that eToro has already committed to compensating Mr S for 
the $2,126 loss he incurred in T5 and to making the $500 goodwill payment in relation to T1. 
It is therefore obliged to do that and if it has not already done that, I expect it will shortly. The 
offer appears to have been linked to a proposed complaint waiver by Mr S. That waiver is 
now redundant given that it was never given and his complaint has since been pursued 
further (up to this decision), and it ought not stop eToro from upholding its commitment to  
Mr S. 
For the above reasons, T5 is excluded from my findings. I do not consider there is a need to 
address a matter that the parties appear to have already resolved. However, despite the 
$500 goodwill payment, I have still made findings on T1 below.
Moving on to T1, T2, T3 and T4, my initial observation relates to T4. eToros reference to a 
delayed closure but positive outcome for the trade within it, does not appear to be disputed. 
Due to the delay Mr S appears to have made almost $5,000 more profit than he would have made without the delay. I understand his point about price swing trading during the relevant 
period, but it is an inherently speculative argument. There is no evidence of pre-planning to 
conduct such trading and no evidence that any such strategy would have been correctly 
judged and executed by him to result in multiplying his profits  without the benefit of 
hindsight, it is possible that the strategy could have been misjudged and could have resulted 
in losses. I do not accept that Mr S was denied tangible profit in T4, instead evidence shows 
that the delay benefitted him in the form of almost $5,000 additional profit.
Aside from the above observation, my findings on T1 to T4 begin with and mainly relate to 
the terms and conditions for Mr S account. They were the terms on which the account 
operated, they were the terms he agreed and we have been provided with a copy of the 
October 2020 version, which I consider to be relevant and reliable evidence. I have not seen 
evidence of an amendment by January 2021. I acknowledge that eToro and the investigator 
focused more on the market conditions for the relevant trades and I do not say they were 
wrong to do so. I can understand such an approach being led or influenced by a desire to 
address each of the trades individually. However, I have identified provisions in the terms 
which complement this by addressing the case (including all the trades and the malfunction) 
as a whole. 
The platforms malfunction on the date is a settled fact. The same applies to the fact that T1 
to T4 were affected by something  Mr S says they were affected by the malfunction and 
eToro says they were affected by market conditions, but they both agree that the trades 
were affected. If, as Ms S says, the trades were affected by the malfunction, the following 
terms become very important to the case  
In section 5.6 eToro declared, and Mr S undertook, the risk of loss arising from a 
failure or malfunction of eToros  hardware or software.
Section 19.2(k) said eToro may not accept, execute or complete a trade order in 
circumstances involving an exceptional event; section 19.5 said it would not be 
responsible for any losses arising in this respect; and in section 29.1(j) an 
exceptional event included technical failures in transmission, communication or 
computer facilities including power failures and electronic or equipment failures.
Section 25 said eToro would be responsible for losses only if caused by its 
negligence, wilful default and/or fraud; earlier in the same section it is confirmed that 
eToro would not be liable for the results of an exceptional event.
Section 29.2 forewarned that in the circumstances of an exceptional event the 
availability and speed of eToros service, platform, website, order execution and 
functionalities  may be delayed, may not be available, or may not be carried out; 
and that it would not be liable for any losses in this respect.
The sum of these provisions mean that even if the malfunction on the date directly caused 
the problems Mr S faced in T1 to T4, and even if it also caused the loss of profit that he has 
claimed for, the terms agreed for his account excluded eToros liability for such a claim. I 
have not seen evidence of negligence, wilful default or fraud by eToro in this case, so it is 
the liability exclusion that applies. The platform malfunction on the date amounted to an 
exceptional event and the occurrence of such an event triggered the exclusion  hence, the 
reason the exclusion of eToros liability applies in Mr S case.
Available evidence suggests the market conditions relevant to the trades could also have 
contributed additional difficulties. I understand Mr S arguments about price volatility being 
unrelated to login and platform failures. He is correct, and it does not appear to me that 
eToro has said that price volatility caused the malfunction. Instead, it appears to me that its 
argument is that price volatility affected the management and closures of the trades in any 
case, aside from the platform malfunction. This is further supported by the facts surrounding the trades. As an example, Mr S says the 
platform was inaccessible and inoperable during the relevant hour (or more); however, T3 
was closed at 15:07 which would have been around halfway through the relevant hour; 
which would suggest there were intermittent periods during the hour and during the 
malfunction in which the platform worked; and which further suggests that another factor 
(like the market conditions) could have obstructed the trade closures during such times. 
Having said this, I still retain the conclusion that the liability exclusion is the main 
consideration in the case.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr S 
complaint. eToros offer is a positive aspect of the case, and I understand his explanation 
and strength of feeling about profit levels he believes he could and should have achieved in 
the trades, but the grounds set out above support, on balance, my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman