DRN-3478453
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund him for ATM 
withdrawals that he says he didnt make or agree to. Hed like the bank to refund him. 
What happened
Mr H holds a current account with Halifax. In early 2020 he noticed several transactions he 
didnt recognise. There were seven £500 withdrawals over eight days at various ATMs. He 
contacted Halifax to let them know. He told them that he always had the card with him, and 
hadnt let anyone else know his PIN, or use his card. He said he had contacted the police 
and they thought it was possible his card had been cloned.
Halifax declined to refund him. They said that it wasnt possible to clone the chip on the card. 
Since the ATM withdrawals would have required this chip to be read, and Mr H hadnt lost 
his card, then it must have been his original card used. Since he still had the card in his 
possession, they couldnt see how it was compromised. They couldnt see how the 
transactions could have been done fraudulently, so declined to refund him.
Unhappy with this answer Mr H referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Mr H told them he lives alone, and always keeps 
his bank card with him. He has a record of the PIN, but this is kept with him and wouldnt be 
recognisable to someone else. He said he had workmen in his house at some point around 
these transactions but couldnt be sure of the dates.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They couldnt see a way the 
card and PIN had been compromised, and they didnt think it was more likely than not the 
card had been cloned. They didnt think Halifax was unreasonable in holding Mr H liable for 
the transactions.
Mr H disagreed. He sent it some articles hed found about card cloning. He said that if the 
cardholder remains in the consumers possession, then theyre not liable for any fraud that 
occurs. He said there was no basis for saying he authorised the transactions. He also said 
the unusual amounts withdrawn should have been stopped by the bank.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything further.
The relevant regulations here  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  say that generally 
a consumer wont be held liable for any transactions made on their account that they didnt 
authorise, except in limited circumstances.
In this case the most important question I need to answer is whether I think its more likely 
than not Mr H, or someone acting on his behalf, carried out the ATM withdrawals. 
Having reviewed the evidence available, I dont think its likely they were carried out using a 
cloned card. As these withdrawals took place at ATMs in the UK, we know that the chip on 
the card must have been read, and the PIN entered correctly. 
The information held on the magnetic strip on the back of card can be copied  or skimmed 
 which is what the articles Mr H sent this service are referring to. 
But the chip on the card is different to this. Its not generally thought possible to copy the 
chip on the card, and our service hasnt come across any cases where we felt this was a 
likely explanation of what happened. I havent seen any persuasive evidence this is what 
happened in this case. So, Im satisfied that these withdrawals were made using Mr Hs 
original card and PIN.
Having considered the available evidence, I dont think its likely the withdrawals were 
carried out by some unknown third party. I say this because:
Mr H was still in possession of his card when he reported the transactions. This 
would suggest that if these were carried out by someone unknown to him they would 
need to have taken the card without his knowledge, used it for over a week, but then 
decide to return the card to him without his knowledge. This would seem to be an 
incredible risk for a fraudster to take, when there would be no benefit in them 
returning the card. It was also mean the fraudster would need access to where Mr H 
keeps his card at least twice, but I havent been given a plausible explanation of how 
this could have happened.
There was still a balance available when the withdrawals stopped  which is unusual 
as I would usually think a fraudster would try to make use of all the funds available on 
an account. From Halifaxs records we can see there was a balance enquiry before 
the first withdrawal, so whoever had the card wouldve been aware of how much 
money was available.
Likewise, the transactions were all individual withdrawals over eight days. This 
increases the risk to the fraudster that the withdrawals will be discovered, and the 
card cancelled. I would expect an unknown fraudster, in possession of a stolen card, 
to try to spend as much of the balance as quickly as possible. Instead they carry out 
a series of withdrawals, including missing a day.
There isnt a reasonable explanation of how someone other than Mr H would have 
known the PIN. From the records from Halifax there were no incorrect PIN attempts, 
and its incredibly unlikely that the PIN could have been guessed. Mr H has said hes 
not shared or given it to anyone else. And the last legitimate use of the PIN was 
several days beforehand, which makes it unlikely a fraudster oversaw him enter his 
PIN and then stole the card.
Based on this, the only reasonable explanation left to me is that the withdrawals were carried 
out by Mr H, or someone acting on his behalf, and as such would be considered authorised 
under the relevant regulations. I dont consider it unreasonable for Halifax to hold him liable 
for them. 
Mr H has suggested that the transactions were unusual enough that Halifax should have 
prevented them. Looking at them, I can see Mr H doesnt usually carry out withdrawals for 
this amount. But I also have to bear in mind that the basis of Mr Hs complaint is that he 
didnt authorise these transactions, but I think its more likely than not he did. It follows that any intervention by Halifax wouldnt have prevented losses to unauthorised withdrawals, as I 
think they were authorised. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman