DRN-4258046
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022, Miss S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £6,449 over 52 months; with 51 monthly 
payments of £240.78. At the time of supply, the car was around ten and a half years old, and 
(according to the MOT record for 5 September 2022) had done 107,391 miles.
The day after being supplied with the car, Miss S experienced a problem with the gears. She 
contacted the supplying dealership, who told her it was a sensor issue. They told her to go to 
a local garage, and theyd cover the costs.
Miss S did this and was told there was an issue with the ABS, drivers door lock, and a 
cracked wheel rim; as well as a new locking nut set, and a spare key being needed.  
While Miss S accepted she was responsible for the damage to the wheel rim, she spoke to 
the broker whod arranged the finance about the other issues. They spoke to the dealership 
on her behalf and told Miss S that, once she had the invoice for the work, she could send it 
to the dealership to sort out.
Miss S had the repairs completed on 13 January 2023, at the cost of £1,048.80. £70 of this 
was for the repair to the wheel Miss S had damaged. Shortly after these repairs were carried 
out, Miss S was involved in an accident, where damage was done to the front of the car.
In January 2023, Miss S complained to Moneybarn about the issues with the car and asked 
to be able to reject it. The dealership took the car back in February 2023 and they had it 
inspected. This inspection said that, now repairs had been completed, there was nothing 
wrong with the car. However, there was visible damage to the front of the car. And they 
suspected it had been in an accident. As a result, the dealership refused to cover the costs 
of the earlier repairs.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer found a 
number of faults with the car. Following this, Miss S wanted the costs of the first repair to be 
refunded, and to be able to reject the car.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the car when it was supplied to Miss S, which 
made it of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, she said that Moneybarn 
should pay for the initial repairs Miss S had done, less the cost of the oil change, the oil, air, 
and fuel filters (which were done as part of a service), and the cost of the repair to the rim 
damage Miss S caused.
With regards to the independent engineers report, the investigator said none of the issues 
with the car were present when the car was first inspected shortly after supply. And the 
independent engineer had referred to faults being due to wear and tear. So, the investigator 
didnt think Moneybarn needed to pay for these repairs. However, the investigator said that 
Moneybarn should pay Miss S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused. 
Miss S didnt agree with the investigator and wanted to reject the car. So, shes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss S to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss S took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the car when it was supplied to 
Miss S  there was an issue with the ABS and the drivers door, and a full locking nut set 
was required. These faults were repaired in January 2023 at a cost of £978.80.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 6 July 2023. In this report, the 
engineer said there was damage to the drivers door, and an issue with the steering and 
suspension. They also said that the repair to the damaged wheel was unserviceable. The 
engineer concluded that these faults would be due to wear and deterioration [and] we do 
consider the faults to have been present at purchase.
While Ive noted the engineers comments, Ive also taken into consideration that Miss S had 
the car inspected shortly after it was supplied to her. The initial inspection didnt raise the 
issues with the damage to the drivers door (even though the need for a replacement door 
lock was mentioned), nor did it mention any excessive wear in the steering and/or 
suspension. Whats more, these issues werent noted in the inspection that took place in February 2023 either. If these issues were present at the point of supply, I would reasonably 
have expected these to be picked up at either inspection.
Ive also considered that the car has had two accidents since it was supplied to Miss S  
when the damage to the wheel was caused, and when the damage to the front of the car 
was caused. While these accidents might have been minor, its also the case that additional 
damage to the car may have been done. Furthermore, Miss S was able to drive the car over 
3,000 miles before the second inspection took place. Finally, I havent seen anything to show 
me that the independent engineer was aware the car had been involved in an accident after 
it was supplied to Miss S.
Given this, Im not satisfied that the faults with the car found during the inspection of 6 July 
2023 were present when the car was supplied to Miss S. So, I wont be asking Moneybarn to 
take any further action regarding these issues.
Putting things right
Miss S has provided evidence of the costs shes incurred in repairing the car in January 
2023. And, given that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, I think its only 
fair that Moneybarn reimburse these costs.
Its also clear that Miss S has been inconvenienced by having to arrange for the car to be 
repaired, and by the dealership refusing to reimburse these costs, after first agreeing to. So, 
I think Moneybarn should compensate her for this. The investigator had recommended that 
Moneybarn pay her £200, which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, Moneybarn should:
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Ss credit file;
reimburse the £978.80 repair costs Miss S paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the reimbursement, calculated from the date Miss 
S made the payment to the date of the reimbursement; and
pay Miss S an additional £200 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited. And 
they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman