DRN-3539414
The complaint
Mr G complains that @SIPP LIMITED used the funds within his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension to pay for a property valuation which was unnecessary.
Throughout this complaint Mr G has been represented by a third party, but for simplicity Ill 
refer to all activities as having been completed by Mr G himself.
What happened
Mr G held investments within a Self-Invested Personal Pension which was managed by 
@SIPP. A proportion of the value of his investments was in the form of a property. 
On 18 December 2019 Mr G needed to withdraw £40,000 from his SIPP, so requested this 
from @SIPP. @SIPP agreed to release the funds immediately, but explained a valuation of 
the property held within the SIPP would be required in order to comply with HMRC 
guidelines, as a valuation hadnt been obtained within the previous 12 months.
Mr G told @SIPP that a full valuation wasnt required, and all that was needed was a 
surveyors letter which confirmed there hadnt been any significant change to the valuation 
since one was last carried out. 
But @SIPP didnt tell the surveyor this when it instructed him. So a desktop valuation was 
completed which cost about £720. This was charged to Mr Gs pension fund.
Mr G was unhappy about this. He thought that hed been charged for something which 
wasnt necessary. He thought @SIPP shouldnt have instructed the surveyor and he 
shouldve been given the opportunity to negotiate a reduced fee reflecting the service that 
was needed.
Following a formal complaint being made by Mr G @SIPP said a valuation was required, but 
accepted thered been a lack of communication on its part. For the inconvenience caused 
@SIPP offered to pay Mr G £250 towards the cost of the survey.
But Mr G didnt accept this, so complained to our Service. He thought a fair resolution would 
be for @SIPP to refund the entire cost of the survey. He also wanted @SIPP to pay the fees 
he was being charged by his representative to deal with the issue, and to receive 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Our Investigator agreed that there had been a breakdown in communication by @SIPP as 
Mr G had made clear what was required from the surveyor. But he thought the offer of a 
partial refund of the cost of the survey was a fair outcome, because it was clear that some 
form of valuation was required in any case, so there wouldve always been a charge 
imposed on Mr Gs pension fund. And the surveyor had said the cost of providing a letter of 
valuation wouldve been the same as was charged for the desktop valuation carried out. So 
although Mr G had lost the opportunity to negotiate with the surveyor, or approach another to 
carry out the valuation, there would always have been a charge involved. 
Our Investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask @SIPP to pay Mr G compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, because hed received the funds he needed from his pension 
with no delay. And as hed been represented throughout, and hadnt had to deal with the 
majority of the communication and problems incurred, he thought the apology given by 
@SIPP was sufficient in the circumstances.
But our Investigator did think that because of the breakdown in communication, and the way 
@SIPP dealt with the complaint before it was referred to our Service, Mr Gs representative 
had had to do more than was necessary to try and resolve the issue. He thought it was fair 
that @SIPP should pay for the additional work done before the complaint was referred to our 
Service, and cover his professional fees of £350.
@SIPP agreed with the Investigators view, but asked for evidence of the fees being 
charged by Mr Gs advisor.
Mr G didnt agree that the professional fees should be limited to the initial stages. He thought 
that although our Service is free to use, in reality it takes time to submit the complaint and 
deal with the follow-up enquiries. And he thought @SIPP was manipulating the process and 
extending it unnecessarily.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the evidence provided, I initially only partially agreed with the view of the 
Investigator. I thought the offer of a refund of £250 made by @SIPP to partially cover the 
cost of the valuation was fair and reasonable. But I didnt think @SIPP should be required to 
cover any of the professional fees being charged by Mr Gs advisor. I wrote to both Mr G (via 
his representative) and @SIPP outlining my initial thoughts and inviting responses for me to 
consider further. In summary I said:
As our Investigator explained, we were set up as an alternative to the courts. Its free to 
complain to us, so anyone can use our Service  without needing to pay for other help, like 
a solicitor or financial adviser. It is fair to say that some people choose to have a 
representative, paid or otherwise, to help them through the process, but this isnt necessary. 
So, it would be unfair of me to make @SIPP reimburse the fee Mr G is being charged for 
the work undertaken in bringing this complaint to us, as ultimately it was his choice to use 
his representatives services, and he couldve brought it to us for free.
I understand his representative has had some extra work to do before our Service 
became involved in the complaint. I see he sent and received several emails, and made 
phone calls after the initial contact with the surveyor, to try to resolve the issue caused by 
@SIPPs error. And hes billed Mr G for his time in dealing with this. But Ive not seen 
anything in what hes had to do which couldnt have been done by Mr G himself.
I understand Mr G is busy, and sorting out problems such as this is inconvenient and can 
be time consuming. But none of the emails or calls required any specific technical 
expertise or knowledge which meant they had to be carried out by a paid financial adviser. 
So just because Mr G chose to get his representative to deal with problems caused by 
@SIPPs mistake doesnt mean @SIPP should be responsible for his fee  that is 
something Mr G will ultimately be responsible for.So I dont, at this stage, think it would be fair for me to require @SIPP to make any 
payment to Mr G to cover his representatives professional fees.
@SIPP didnt respond, but Mr G, through his representative did. He said, in summary:
The Ombudsman appeared to have misunderstood that the Investigator had said 
only the fees incurred before the complaint was referred to our Service should be 
covered. Although hed disagreed with the Investigator, the £350 fee only covered 
the initial dealings with @SIPP.
He didnt understand how he should be expected to pay two thirds of the cost of 
an unnecessary valuation which he hadnt authorised and which wouldnt have 
cost so much had he arranged it himself.
It was necessary to have his representative deal with @SIPP because it had 
ignored his complaint and only his representative wouldve known the 
requirements of the regulator and was able to remind @SIPP of its obligations. 
There was extra work required that Mr G wouldnt have been aware of.
@SIPP didnt provide a leaflet with details of the ombudsman when it sent its final 
response so Mr G wouldnt have known what he needed to do.
Mr G was let down and inconvenienced by @SIPP which, in addition to providing 
a very poor service, displayed a flagrant disregard of the rules meant to facilitate 
customers complaints. I hadnt even mentioned the breach of these rules in my 
response.
Our website said we award fair compensation for distress and inconvenience 
where we feel your customer faced obstacles or difficulties that could have been 
avoided if youd handled things differently and Mr G thought this described his 
situation.
Firstly, I understand that Mr G has concerns about how @SIPP dealt with his complaint, 
and its internal processes. But this isnt something that is within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Complaint handling isnt listed as an activity covered by 
the jurisdiction of our service by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The 
requirement to have a complaint handling process, and whether @SIPP complied with 
this, is a matter for the FCA. As such this wont form part of this decision.
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again my initial 
thoughts in light of Mr Gs response. And having done so I see no reason to depart from 
my initial view. Ill explain.
The cost of the valuation
It is not disputed that there was a breakdown in communication caused by @SIPP, and 
that @SIPP engaged the services of a surveyor to conduct a valuation which was more 
detailed than was required. A desktop valuation was completed, but all that was required 
was a letter from the surveyor saying there had been no significant change to the 
valuation of the property held within the pension since it was last valued. 
But it is also clear that some form of valuation was required in order to facilitate the 
release of funds to Mr G, and it is a reasonable assumption to make that the valuation 
letter wouldve had a cost associated with it. Indeed, the surveyor who was engaged by 
@SIPP has said that the cost of providing the letter wouldve been the same as the desktop valuation, and although I cannot confirm this, Ive not seen anything to say this 
wasnt the case and that I shouldnt accept this testimony. 
So on balance, I think it is most likely that there wouldve been a cost incurred in obtaining 
a valuation letter, and the cost of this wouldve been similar, if not the same, as the 
desktop valuation. And if Mr G had engaged a new surveyor, it is likely that the full 
valuation process wouldve needed to start again, so would likely have cost more. So Im 
satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to require @SIPP to cover the entire cost of the valuation, 
and its offer of £250 towards it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The representatives fees
Mr G has asserted that his representative has had to do extra work as a result of 
@SIPPs error and lack of communication, and this was compounded by @SIPP not 
dealing with his complaint properly. As a result he has incurred extra fees. But as I 
explained in my initial response, Ive not seen anything in what the representative did that 
required any particular expertise or financial experience. 
And I understand there is a difference between the work undertaken by the representative 
in his dealings with @SIPP, and his work in then referring the complaint to our Service. 
But as I explained, our Service is free to use, and the use of a paid representative is 
unnecessary. And I dont agree that Mr G wouldnt have known that he could refer his 
complaint to our Service following @SIPPs final response to his complaint. Although 
there may not have been a leaflet enclosed with the letter, @SIPP included referral rights 
to our Service, with a link to our website. So I think it is reasonable to think hed have 
known what he needed to do if hed wished to make the complaint himself.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr G is correct that our Service can require businesses to make compensation payments 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience theyve caused when something has gone 
wrong. But this compensation can only be paid to a customer who has been impacted, so 
in this case Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to require @SIPP to do so. This is 
because, having looked at the entire process, I can see that Mr Gs representative has 
dealt with the majority of events. Mr G, having initially requested the £40,000 to be 
released from his pension, received the money without delay. It was only what occurred 
after this which caused inconvenience, and this inconvenience was caused to his 
representative, and not Mr G himself. I acknowledge that Mr G would most likely have 
been aware of what was going on, but I cant see that he was directly impacted by this, so 
I consider the apology given to him by @SIPP sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
I require @SIPP LIMITED to pay Mr G, if it hasnt already done so, £250 towards the cost of 
the property valuation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman