DRN-4104085
The complaint
Mr R complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream) provided 
him with a loan which wasnt affordable. 
What happened
Mr R was granted one loan on 3 August 2022 for £250. Mr R was due to make five 
instalments of £80.95 with a final instalment due of £79.73. Mr R has had some problems 
repaying the loan, and when Lending Stream provided its file, an outstanding balance 
remained due although Mr R was making payments through an informal repayment plan.  
Lending Stream considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision 
to provide the loan because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mr R 
could afford the repayments. Unhappy with this response, Mr R referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. He said 
Lending Stream had reasonable grounds to believe Mr R could afford the loan and that it 
had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr R didnt agree, and said in summary:
After all his bills, he had around £500 per month but he still needed to pay for food. 
Lending Stream only asked for a total monthly expenditure, rather than asking for the 
details to be broken down into categories. Mr R says by doing that he couldve 
forgotten to add his car payments in his expenditure. He also says he forgot to 
include payments he makes to his daughter. 
Lending Stream didnt make enquires into whether Mr R had any children. 
Lending Streams credit search ought to have shown that Mr R had a lot of 
outstanding debt with access to an online shopping account. 
Lending Stream didnt have any further comments. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr R could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors 
include:
Mr R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr R. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Rs complaint. 
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr R was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Rs complaint.
Before the loan was approved, Lending Stream asked Mr R for details of his income, which 
he declared as being £2,000 per month. Mr R also declared he worked full time and had 
worked at the same employer for several years. As this was the first loan, it was 
proportionate for Lending Stream to have relied on the information Mr R had provided. 
Mr R also declared monthly outgoings of £700 for the loan. Lending Stream says these 
figures were broken down as £200 for regular expenditure and £500 for credit commitments. 
However, Lending Stream has shown that it increased Mr Rs outgoings by a further £275 
taking into account independent checks. So, when Lending Stream completed its 
affordability assessment, it believed Mr Rs monthly outgoings were £975. 
After carrying out these checks, Mr Rs disposable income was £1,025 per month with which 
to afford the loan repayments of around £81. The loan wouldve looked affordable. 
I appreciate Mr R says that he may have not included all his outgoings, and this couldve 
been caused by the fact that Lending Stream didnt break the expenditure question down 
into various categories. However, I also have to consider, this was the first loan and 
Lending Stream did ask Mr R for his expenditure details, and for a first loan I do think that was reasonable and fair for it to rely on the information it was provided with. Mr R had the 
opportunity to withdraw from the loan within 14 days if he had realised his mistakes.  
Before the loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a summary of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth 
saying here that although Lending Stream carried out credit searches, there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Lending 
Stream couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
Having reviewed the credit check results, Lending Stream knew that Mr R had 11 active 
credit accounts, with monthly repayments of around £440  which is roughly what Mr R had 
declared as part of his application. It also knew that Mr R had defaulted on an account 
between 13 and 36 months before the loan was approved, so I dont think that wouldve 
given Lending Stream cause for concern. 
There was an indicator that perhaps Mr R had early arrears on a credit account, but that 
alone wouldnt have been enough to prompt further checks considering the amount Mr R 
was due to pay each month. The other checks that had been carried out showed the loan 
was affordable. 
Overall, there wasnt anything within the credit search that wouldve led Lending Stream to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr R 
had provided. 
As this was Mr Rs first loan and it was for a modest sum, I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have relied on the information Mr R gave about his income and 
expenditure which showed he could meet his repayments. There also wasnt anything else 
to suggest that Mr R was having financial difficulties or that the loan would be unsustainable 
for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman