DRN-1697270
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs L says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
 
What happened
Mrs L opened a store card account in a shop in September 1999. At the same time, she took 
out a PPI policy.
The policy was designed to pay part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ls store 
card each month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her 
job. The policy also included life cover and purchase and price protection cover.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said 
that Mrs L had been employed for less than six months when she took the policy out, and 
this would have made it harder for her to make an unemployment claim on the policy. And 
he didn't think Mrs L would have taken the policy if AXA had made it clear to her that she 
wouldn't be able to claim for that condition.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs L 
and to AXA on 4 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
 
I explained that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide 
what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
 
Id seen a copy of Mrs Ls application for the store card. It includes a section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). It instructs the applicant only to sign if they require 
the cover. Mrs L signed specifically to indicate that she wished to take the cover, in 
addition to signing the form overall. I thought that it would have been clear to Mrs L 
from the way the form was set out that the PPI was optional. And given that she 
signed specifically to take the cover, I thought she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice - although I could understand why she may no longer remember 
this, so many years later.
 
Based on what we know about how AXA usually sold PPI at the time, I didnt think it 
was likely that it advised Mrs L personally to take it out. So it didn't have to check if it 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs L enough information 
to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
 
Under the terms of the policy, Mrs L wouldn't have been able to make a successful 
unemployment claim if she hadn't been in continuous work for six months 
immediately before making the claim. As I'd noted, it was for this reason that our 
adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.
 
Id noticed that there had been some inconsistency in the date on which Mrs L 
started her work, and Id asked her to clarify. Shed confirmed that she had, in fact, 
started work in September 1998, and has been with the same employer ever since. 
This meant that I couldn't uphold Mrs L's complaint on the same grounds that the 
adjudicator recommended that it should be upheld. By the time Mrs L took out the 
store card and PPI, she'd been working for around a year. So the length of time she'd 
been employed wouldn't have presented any problem if she'd needed to claim on the 
policy.
 
But there was another reason why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Mrs L 
told us that she worked 15 hours per week. In view of the confusion about when she 
started work, I asked her to confirm what her working hours and working pattern were 
when she took the PPI out in September 1999 - in other words when she'd been 
working for roughly a year. She confirmed that she worked three hours per day, five 
days per week. That was consistent with what shed previously told us about her 
working hours. And although she hadn't been able to provide any evidence to 
support what she says, I found it persuasive, on balance. Mrs L had been consistent 
in saying that she worked 15 hours per week. And she'd explained how this was 
broken down. What's more, the working pattern seemed to me to be consistent with 
the line of work she was in.
 
In order to be eligible for the disability and unemployment cover under the policy, 
Mrs L would have needed to be working at least 16 hours per week when she 
applied. From what I'd seen, I thought it was unlikely, on balance, that Mrs L met this 
eligibility requirement. So I thought it was likely that she'd have been unable to 
benefit from some of the main elements of the cover. And if the requirement to be 
working for at least 16 hours per week had been pointed out clearly to Mrs L, I didn't 
think she'd have taken the policy out.
 
So based on everything Id seen so far, I thought Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld, 
but for different reasons from those set out by the adjudicator. And I thought AXA 
should put things right by putting Mrs L in the position she'd have been in if she 
hadn't taken out the PPI.
 further submissions
Neither Mrs L nor AXA has provided any further comments or evidence, and the time for 
doing so has now expired.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
  
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs L in the position she'd be in now if she hadn't taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs L would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadn't been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs L owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadn't had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs L paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs L would have owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D. AXA should tell Mrs L what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue and Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax it's taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman