DRN-3565648
The complaint
Mr J complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Premier Man havent helped 
him with his financial difficulties by refusing to change his payment date and adding interest 
and charges to his debt.
What happened
Mr J had a number of accounts with J D Williams & Company but this complaint concerns 
the Premier Man account. In around April 2019 Mr J asked if he could change the repayment 
date to align with when he got paid. Premier Man said it couldnt change the repayment 
dates.
In April 2020 Mr J began experiencing significant financial difficulties as a result of the Covid 
19 pandemic and the subsequent loss of his job and health concerns. Mr J again asked 
Premier Man to change his repayment date and asked for a repayment plan to pay off his 
outstanding debt. A repayment plan was set up but Mr J was upset and angry that interest 
and charges continued to be added. He felt that he was not making any substantial inroads 
into the amount he owed and it was being taken up with interest and charges. Mr J stated 
that he wasnt able to make repayments until a refund for an item purchased on another 
account was made. After this refund Mr J stated that he was not in a position to pay the 
agreed repayments because of the interest and charges that had been added. The account 
has now been transferred to a third party for collection. Mr J says that J D Williams have not 
responded to his emails and have not treated him sympathetically in view of his financial 
difficulties.
J D Williams say that it cannot change the repayment date and this is clearly set out in the 
terms and conditions signed by Mr J when he opened his account. It says that it has taken 
steps to assist Mr J by agreeing reduced repayments and a repayment plan but because Mr 
J hasnt kept to these arrangements it began adding interest and charges and has now 
transferred his account. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it was upheld. They 
thought that although J D Williams hadnt responded to each and every email, it had taken 
steps to assist Mr J by agreeing reduced repayments and a repayment plan. They thought 
that because Mr J hadnt kept to these arrangements J D Williams was entitled to add 
interest and charges. They considered that J D Williams didnt have to change the 
repayment date as it was clearly set out in the terms and conditions. Even when the refund 
was provided in relation to the other account Mr J didnt make the agreed repayments so 
they thought that J D Williams hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all of the information in detail including all the emails sent by Mr J. If I dont 
comment on a piece of information it does not mean that I have not considered it. I am 
focussed on giving reasons for my decision and so I dont consider it is necessary to 
rehearse all of the information I have seen.
There is no dispute that Mr J was in financial difficulty and that he asked J D Williams for 
help to repay his account. Mr J is clear that the refusal to change the repayment date meant 
that his repayment was always late and so he was charged a late fee every time. I can 
understand why Mr J feels that way but I cant say that the refusal to change the repayment 
date was unfair or unreasonable. Mr J was aware he needed to make a repayment every 28 
days when he opened the account. Mr J agreed to this within the terms and conditions he 
signed and so it is his responsibility to ensure that he can make the agreed repayments on 
time. That said, I do understand that when he was in difficulty this was not always possible. 
J D Williams have a responsibility to treat Mr J fairly and sympathetically when they are 
advised that he is in financial difficulty. In the first instance in April 2020 when Mr J advised 
of the problems he was having, a hold was placed on the account for 28 days which meant 
that Mr J wasnt required to make any repayments. In May 2020 a reduced repayment 
arrangement for £40 every 28 days was set up. Mr J made one repayment in June 2020. Mr 
J didnt make the August repayment and a late charge was applied. In September 2020 the 
repayment arrangement was reduced to £20 every 28 days and a refund of £113 was 
applied to the account. Mr J didnt make any repayments and the account has now been 
closed and transferred to a third party for collection.
J D Williams is entitled to charge interest and late fees on balances outstanding. Mr J hasnt 
kept to the arrangements he has set up and has not made any repayments to the account 
since June 2020 as he considered that it was not going toward his debts. Although there has 
been some gaps in communication, I dont think that J D Williams ignored Mr J or did not 
address his difficulties. In these circumstances I cant say that J D Williams havent treated 
him positively and sympathetically. The business has tried to assist Mr J by agreeing 
reduced repayments but Mr J hasnt kept to those arrangements and so interest and charges 
have been added.
I do understand that Mr J feels that he was unable to make any inroads into his debt 
because of the fees and charges. Having reviewed the account I can see that Mr J regularly 
missed payments or paid late even before he advised J D Williams of his difficulties in April 
2020. I am aware that Mr J has also raised a complaint that the credit was unaffordable and 
unsustainable. I am not able to look at that aspect as part of this decision as this is 
something the business havent been asked to comment on and so is the subject of a 
separate complaint.  
Overall, I cant say that J D Williams has done anything wrong by refusing to change the 
repayment date and I cant say that it didnt treat Mr J positively and sympathetically when it 
was advised he was in difficulties in April 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman