DRN-2280898
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was turned down for a balance transfer on his new credit card from 
MBNA Limited. He wants to know why that happened.
What happened
Mr H said that he had taken out a card with MBNA because he wanted to take advantage of 
its balance transfer offer. Hed completed two balance transfers, but then a third one was 
turned down, and MBNA said he should ask a credit reference agency (CRA) why this had 
happened. 
Mr H said hed spoken to the CRA, and it said nothing had changed on his credit file. Mr H 
said he prided himself on a clean credit file, and he had never been turned down for credit. 
So he wanted to know why this balance transfer offer had been withdrawn. He was 
concerned MBNA knew something he didnt.
MBNA said that Mr H could now make this third balance transfer, and because hed missed 
out on an interest free offer, MBNA would make sure that the transfer he wanted was still 
available interest free. 
MBNA said that its balance transfer offers were subject to external credit checks when they 
are requested. If a check shows someone isnt eligible for a transfer, it doesnt know any 
specific information about the reason for this. Its decision might not be based just on one 
thing, many factors are taken into account in its lending decisions. And credit scores can 
change on a day to day basis. The only information it could give Mr H is that this is an 
external check, and he couldnt have a balance transfer at that time.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that for MBNA to 
decline this transfer is a commercial decision, which its entitled to make. The criteria used to 
approve or decline lending applications is confidential. There are many reasons why a lender 
might decide not to lend, MBNA has said this was declined externally but it is unable to 
share details of the specific reasons for this. Our investigator said she was happy that MBNA 
had followed its procedures, and acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
She didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong.
Mr H said that wasn`t the answer he was hoping for. He had only got the transfer he wanted 
after waiting for about eight weeks for MBNA to resolve this, and after having to investigate 
with the CRA himself. Mr H said the CRA couldn`t tell him what had gone wrong either, so 
that was also a waste of his time. Mr H said both MBNA and our service had mentioned 
commercial decision and he wanted to know what this was based on.
Mr H said he could only assume that if it was a commercial decision, then this limits the 
amount of balance transfers on offer. He said that isnt explained in any of the conditions of 
the contract. So he said either the card was mis-sold or not explained. 
Mr H said he felt strongly about this whole experience and thought MBNA was trying to 
cover something up. He wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so his case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr H says that MBNA cant tell him why he was initially turned down for the third transfer, so 
he thinks it must be hiding something. I dont think thats whats happened here. 
MBNA has said to Mr H it cant tell him why it reached this decision. I think thats because 
most people in MBNA wont know why Mr Hs third balance transfer was turned down. 
Decisions like this are taken by a very complicated algorithm, and most of the people who 
work in MBNA wont actually know the full details of how that weighs up the different factors 
in someones credit file. 
Our investigator and MBNA have both said this was a commercial decision, and our 
investigator has explained that the detailed information on this is confidential. Thats right. 
Banks compete with each other, and one of the ways that they gain an advantage is by 
targeting their lending at the right customers for them. The content of the algorithm that 
helps a bank to make its lending decisions is, for this reason, a closely guarded secret. 
Our service doesnt generally make banks share that sort of very detailed lending 
information with customers. We look at whats happened, and see if the outcome was fair 
and reasonable overall, bearing in mind that banks should generally be able to make their 
own minds up about who they lend to.
The result of a banks assessment on credit can change, sometimes quite quickly. Indeed, 
MBNA has now changed its mind, and its offered Mr H a third transfer at the interest free 
rate he hoped to get. But I think that its most likely that MBNAs change of mind has been 
because of some tiny change in the overall credit data available about him. 
I know Mr H says nothing had changed on his credit file, and he had a perfect score. The 
score hes referring to is provided by the CRA, based on an assessment of what it can see 
on his credit file. The assessment the bank makes when it decides to lend isnt the same, 
and may come up with a different result. So something that might not change Mr Hs perfect 
score from the CRA could still change a banks assessment of him. And a change to Mr Hs 
credit file could be as simple as the length of time since Mr Hs last balance transfer, or 
whether his credit file had fully caught up with the recent changes hed made. That takes a 
while, often around a month.
MBNA doesnt have to tell Mr H how it has weighed up the information it can see on his 
credit file. But I dont think theres anything here to suggest its hiding any information from 
him. It draws its information from the CRAs, and it can see the same information he can see. 
It just doesnt have to tell him exactly why it reached a particular decision, on the basis of 
that. 
I know this isnt quite what Mr H wanted. Im sorry we cant give him that. So instead Ive 
tried to set out in some detail for him how this sort of lending decision works. I hope my 
explanation will help. Because I dont think MBNA has done anything wrong, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman