DRN-3690893
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J complained about Zurich Insurance PLC. They are not happy about the way it 
dealt with an ongoing claim under their buildings insurance policy.  
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Zurich is responsible for the 
complaint, Ive just referred to it in this decision.
What happened
Mrs and Mr J took out buildings insurance with Zurich and made a claim under their policy. 
The claim, relating to subsidence, was ongoing for a few years and they had a number of 
issues relating to the claim. This complaint relates solely to the issues raised by Mrs and Mr 
J with Zurich and dealt with in its final response letters (FRL) of 25 June 2021 and 29 
September 2021. 
When Zurich looked at Mrs and Mr Js complaint about delays in dealing with the claim and 
raised concerns about damage to their property, including to personal belongings with 
sentimental value, it upheld their complaint in June 2021. Zurich asked them to provide a 
breakdown of the damaged items and offered £1,500 in compensation for the further delays 
and for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mrs and Mr J. It also offered reassurances 
that the work was now in hand and that there wouldnt be any further delays.
Zurich also looked into a further complaint raised and responded to it in September 2021. In 
this complaint Mrs and Mr J outlined that they thought the fairest thing to do, given their lack 
of faith in Zurich and the ongoing difficulties they faced which affected the familys mental 
health, was for Zurich to purchase their house. Zurich accepted that it didnt handle the 
continuing claim very well but outlined that the policy didnt cover the purchase of their 
house. But given the ongoing problems Mrs and Mr J faced it said that it would look at any 
further issues, and subsequent compensation, separately at the end of the claim. It did 
apologise for the continuing problems and agreed to appoint a specific contact to oversee 
the remaining works in a timely manner and deal with any concerns they had. It provided a 
contact for a senior executive at the business and arranged a call back from a manager. Mrs 
and Mr J remained unhappy about these issues and complained to this Service.
In relation to the issues that could be considered our investigator thought that Zurichs 
response in the June 2021 FRL was fair. He outlined that no amount of compensation could 
cover the emotional stress and inconvenience caused by the damage to personal items. But 
he thought that Zurich had acted reasonably by asking for a breakdown of the items 
damaged so it could consider paying a fair amount of compensation for the damaged items. 
And he thought that £1,500 was a fair compensation level for the stress and inconvenienced 
caused solely by this failing alongside reassurances about the ongoing claim process.
However, in relation to the second FRL (September 2021) he thought that Zurich should take 
some action now and should offer a further £400 compensation for the further stress and 
inconvenience caused. Although he thought Zurich had acted fairly by appointing a single 
point of contact to help simplify contact about the claim and providing the senior executives 
email contact as opposed to their telephone number. And he didnt think Zurich had done 
anything wrong in not offering to buy their house. 
As Mrs and Mr J didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Although I can understand Mrs and Mr Js position and the very difficult set of circumstances 
they have faced in dealing with their ongoing, difficult and challenging claim under their 
building insurance I must highlight that Im not able to consider all the distress, 
inconvenience and stress they have faced throughout the claim. This is because Zurich 
considered all of these complaints and provided their FRLs around the time of complaint. I 
considered this separately and agreed that these complaints were brought to this Service out 
of time.
Turning to the two complaints that Zurich responded to in its FRLs in June and September 
2021 that I can consider. I agree with our investigators position that the complaint should be 
partly upheld, Ill explain why.
It must have been distressing for Mrs and Mr J to realise that further damage was caused to 
their property, some of which was of sentimental value which would be impossible to place a 
value on. However, I dont think any amount of compensation would put that right. And the 
further delays, that Zurich accept, must have been very stressful for Mrs and Mr J especially 
given the health concerns the family had. 
But Zurich have offered £1,500 in compensation in acknowledgement of its error which is a 
significant amount of compensation. And I feel it is fair in the circumstances for this error 
only. Furthermore, at the time Zurich confirmed further works, and that the work was 
progressing, while asking Mrs and Mr J  to submit a full content claim for the additional 
damage caused to their property which feels fair. I do understand that it would have been 
difficult for Mrs and Mr J to put the contents claim together, especially given the sentimental 
nature of a lot of the claim, but that was unavoidable once the damage had arisen.
In relation to Zurichs FRL of 29 September I can understand why it suggested waiting until 
the claim and work had been finalised before considering the level of compensation it would 
pay, if any. I say this as the matter has been ongoing for a while and a number of complaints 
have been considered along the way. However, I agree with the investigator that it is 
possible and right to consider the delay in completing works to the house that kept Mrs and 
Mr J out of their house in isolation now. 
Mrs and Mr J complained to Zurich again as it failed to meet a deadline to complete works to 
their property in order that they could return home. At this point, given the ongoing problems 
and delays Mrs and Mr J faced, and were continuing to face, they asked Zurich to buy their house in order that they could just move on. And they requested the contact details of the 
Chief Executive and for a manager to call them back. 
In response Zurich apologised for the further delay and for not completing the works on time 
and for the stress all this had caused. It explained that it had appointed a specific point of 
contact to oversee the works and to ensure things were progressed in a timely manner. 
Zurich also explained that it couldnt buy their house as this wasnt how their building 
insurance policy worked and said that it would look at the delay and poor service at the end 
of the claim process so that it can review its overall service. And it provided a contact email 
address for its Chief Executive and explained that it would get a manager to call.
Given the concerns and problems Mrs and Mr J faced throughout this claim I agree that it 
must have been stressful and worrying to face this further delay, especially given the health 
problems the family were facing. I can understand why Zurich wanted to consider this issue 
at the end of the claim process, and Zurich may want to do this if any further issues occur, 
but I agree it is fair to look at this additional delay in isolation. And so, I agree that Mrs and 
Mr J should be compensated alongside Zurichs apology and I agree that £400 seems fair. 
I say this as members of the family were having counselling at the time and the anxiety 
caused by being out of the house for a prolonged period knocked on to academic studies 
amongst other things. I agree that this additional delay caused more upset and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time. And so, I think £400 compensation in 
acknowledgment of all of this, after being out of their house for two years already, seems 
fair. 
I do think Zurich acted fairly in providing the Chief Executives contact details, but not their 
mobile number, and offering for a manager to call back as this was in line with their process. 
Zurich also highlighted the person overseeing the works and claim so that Mrs and Mr J had 
a point of contact which was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Finally, I can understand how this delayed claim has made Mrs and Mr J feel including the 
fact that their home didnt feel like home. However, I cant ask Zurich to step outside the 
policy to this extent and this isnt something that the policy covers. I know Mrs and Mr J 
understand this but thought Zurich would do this as a matter of goodwill. But I cant say 
Zurich has acted unfairly in not agreeing to this. Zurich is obliged to deal with the claim under 
the policy, repair any damages and to look to put any mistakes right but not to purchase their 
home. 
Given this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Zurich to pay an additional £400 compensation.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Zurich 
Insurance PLC to pay an additional £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman