DRN-3387594
The complaint
Mr N has complained about a loan granted to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he said was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Ns behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I have referred 
below to all actions being taken by Mr N.
What happened
ELL agreed a loan for Mr N on 30 September 2020. The loan was for £1,000 and was 
repayable by 18 monthly payments of £116.57. The interest rate on the loan was 110.9%, 
(188.8% APR). If  Mr N made each repayment when it was due, he would pay £2,098.26 in 
total. Mr N had told ELL the loan was to be used for car repairs and home improvements. 
Mr N said that he was in financial difficulty at the time the loan was contracted. He was on 
furlough and short of money when he took out the loan. He has struggled to meet the 
monthly payments to ELL.
Our investigators view
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He said that ELLs
checks showed that Mr N was in a deficit on his main current account and he had several
outstanding defaults that hed been unable to reduce or clear over time.
ELL disagreed and responded to say that it had reviewed Mr Ns bank statements from          
July 2020 and August 2020, and it could see that the account was well maintained, and Mr N 
was never overdrawn on his statements. ELL said there was no evidence of financial 
distress on Mr Ns account that should have led its branch to reasonably know that this loan 
wasnt going to be affordable for Mr N. With regard to the historic defaults, ELL said that its 
branch had asked Mr N about these and he said that these occurred when he was out of 
work. It had factored in repayments on these defaulted accounts in its assessment of the 
disposable income Mr N would have.
As the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N
and to ELL on 22 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when ELL lent to Mr N, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
ELL was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ns creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that ELL 
had to consider both the risk to it that Mr N wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr N of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, ELL had to consider Mr Ns ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
I said that ELL made a number of checks before it lent to Mr N. It had also spoken to and 
met with Mr N and discussed his application. I could see that it had asked Mr N for details of 
his employment, monthly income and rent and it had used Office for National Statistics 
(ONS) data to estimate the rest of Mr Ns expenditure. ELL also asked Mr N to provide a 
payslip and two calendar months bank statements. ELL also checked Mr Ns credit file to 
assess how much he was paying other creditors and how hed managed his credit in the 
past. It used the results of those checks to calculate Mr Ns credit commitments.
Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of £116.57 for 18 months. So, I thought it was right that ELL wanted to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ns financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above allowed ELL to 
form a detailed view of Mr Ns finances, and I thought that the checks ELL did were 
proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
ELLs disposable income calculator form showed Mr Ns earned net income as £1,759.74 
and that he received £140 child benefit. It showed rent of £440, credit repayments of 
£221.96 and living expenses of £743. After ELLs loan repayment, it said that Mr N would 
have a monthly disposable income of £377.80. But I thought ELL might have been concerned as to why someone with an available income of £377.80 (according to its own 
calculations) would need to borrow a high cost loan for £1,000. 
ELL asked Mr N about his income. He told it that he was no longer furloughed. He provided 
his payslips for August 2020 and September 2020 to ELL. I could see that Mr N was 
furloughed in August 2020, but he wasnt furloughed in September 2020. I thought it would 
have been reasonable for ELL to use Mr Ns basic net income from his (non-furloughed) 
September 2020 payslip excluding the amounts he received for overtime and standby as 
these amounts werent necessarily guaranteed income going forward. As Mr N was paid 
every four weeks, Id calculated that his net basic monthly income after deductions was 
around £1,585. As he also received child benefit of £140, Id calculated his total net monthly 
income as around £1,725. I noted that this was around £175 less than the income amount 
used by ELL in its calculations.   
Id reviewed ELLs credit checks before the loan. These showed that Mr N had four live loans 
with a total loans balance of £1,506. Three of the loans were live communications loans with 
monthly repayments totalling £93. Mr N also had a hire purchase loan balance of £175. The 
account had been taken out in 2016 and had been subject to a payment arrangement with a 
debt collector. But the account hadnt been updated on the checks since January 2020. Mr N 
also had a default balance from April 2018 of £316, but the account hadnt been updated on 
the checks since April 2019. I thought ELL might have queried the current status of these 
two historic debts. 
ELL appeared to have looked into Mr Ns credit commitments further. I could see that it had 
listed and calculated Mr Ns monthly credit commitments. The list included monthly payment 
amounts for the two historic loans mentioned above together with monthly payment amounts 
for four other historic accounts which hadnt appeared on ELLs credit checks and were  
defaulted. There was also an active car loan on which Mr N was paying around £171 each 
month. 
I appreciated that having some historic debt wasnt automatically a barrier to taking on 
further credit. But I thought ELL ought to have taken further steps to check that Mr N would 
be able to meet its repayments without adverse effects, given he wasnt potentially able to 
clear his existing debts. 
As Id said above, ELL used ONS data to calculate Mr Ns living costs as £743. But I didnt 
think it was reasonable here for ELL to rely on statistical information about Mr Ns living 
costs without verifying them. ONS data is based on the finances and expenditure of the 
average consumer. But I didnt think ELL could be confident that such data reasonably 
reflected Mr Ns situation and was appropriate to rely on in this case. ELLs affordability 
assessment wasnt tailored to Mr N and I thought it should have been in his circumstances.
ELL had been provided with Mr Ns bank statements for July 2020 and August 2020, and I 
thought it would have been reasonable for it to verify Mr Ns living expenses from those 
statements. It didnt appear to have done this.
Id reviewed the bank statements that ELL saw. I could see that Mr N was transferring 
savings to his current account and in receipt of transfers from his partner which kept his 
account from going overdrawn. Taking all of Mr Ns reasonably identifiable spend on food, 
phone, travel, utilities, broadband/cable, and insurance yielded a total expenditure 
significantly higher than that provided by the ONS data. And taking into account the amount 
of £440 Mr N said was spent on rent and the monthly credit commitments calculated by ELL, 
Id calculated that he wasnt left with sufficient disposable income to repay ELLs loan and for 
him to have enough money to meet any unexpected costs. I thought ELL ought to have reasonably expected that Mr N would be likely to incur unexpected expenses over a term of 
18 months, especially as he had two dependents. 
Altogether, I didnt think ELLs checks went far enough. It didnt seem to have used the bank 
statements it had to verify the estimate of Mr Ns living costs and I thought it shouldnt have 
included overtime and standby income in its income calculation. Overall, I was satisfied that 
the available information demonstrated that Mr N wasnt in a position to take on any more 
debt. So, I thought ELLs decision to arrange the loan wasnt fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and I considered it was irresponsible to have agreed it. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think ELL acted fairly when it provided the loan to 
Mr N. And, subject to any further representations by Mr N or ELL, I said that I intended to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint and that ELL should put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid. In order to put Mr N back into the position 
he would have been had the loan not been agreed for him, ELL needs to ensure that Mr N 
only repays the principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mr N shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount of £1,000 he borrowed. So, ELL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr N has made towards the loan as payments towards the
capital amount borrowed;
b) if Mr N has made payments above the capital amount of £1,000 then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if Mr N hasnt made payments above the capital amount of £1,000, ELL should treat Mr N 
positively and sympathetically regarding repayment of the balance. This might mean 
agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with him; and
d) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ns credit file.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to d) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr N responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
ELL hasnt provided any comments in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr N and ELL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint and require ELL to take the steps set out above under the heading
Putting things right - what ELL needs to do.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman