DRN-4165564
The complaint
Ms P and Mr U complain that Target Servicing Limited wouldnt let them redeem their help to 
buy shared equity loan.
What happened
Ms P and Mr U bought a property with the assistance of the help to buy scheme. Under the 
scheme, a borrower can borrow a percentage of a property purchase price alongside their 
main mortgage. As a shared equity loan, the amount repayable is the same percentage of 
the propertys value at the time of redemption. The help to buy scheme is a government 
scheme and the lender is a government agency, Homes England. Neither the loan nor the 
lender are regulated. But the lender has appointed a regulated firm, Target, to administer the 
loans on its behalf. In doing so, Target is carrying on regulated activities. Target is therefore 
responsible for answering this complaint.
Ms P and Mr U bought their property in 2015, borrowing 20% via the help to buy loan. In 
2021 they decided to move abroad, repaying the loan so they could rent the property out. 
They notified Target of their intention to redeem in April 2021 and obtained a valuation of the 
property, which was submitted to Target. This valuation said the property was worth 
£525,000  meaning that Ms P and Mr U would need to pay £105,000 to redeem their loan. 
But Target didnt confirm this or send them a redemption statement.
Ms P and Mr U repeatedly tried to contact Target to find out what was happening with their 
redemption request. They sent emails and called Target, but Target either didnt respond or 
told them their redemption request was under review. In July 2021, Target asked the 
surveyor who produced the valuation to sign an additional declaration, but the surveyor 
wasnt willing to do that. So Target told Ms P and Mr U theyd need another valuation. Ms P 
and Mr U obtained a new valuation, and complained to Target in October 2021. 
Target accepted it hadnt replied to their emails, and that they had to spend long periods 
waiting for their calls to be answered. It offered £40 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. But it didnt think it had unfairly delayed their redemption request, which it said was 
under review. It said that their redemption request was approved in November 2021.
The second valuation said the property was worth £460,000. So Target sent Ms P and Mr U 
a redemption statement for £92,000 in November 2021, with a deadline for redemption of 25 
February 2022.
Ms P and Mr U were unable to go ahead with the redemption at this time. Theyve explained 
this was a difficult time for them as it coincided with Ms P giving birth, and at the same time 
they were experiencing problems raising the finance to redeem the loan. On 16 February 
2022, Ms P emailed Target asking for an extension to the deadline for redemption: 
We are aware that the deadline for doing this is 25 February. We are nearing the end 
of this process however it is not yet complete. It was delayed in part due to the 
Christmas break and the birth of our baby. You will recall from my complaint and our 
conversations that a large part of the time pressure in getting the valuation figure was 
the impending birth of my baby. I knew that I would be restricted in what I could do to 
move this along, in at least the first month after the baby was born. We anticipate that 
it will take another four weeks to complete financing at our end as there has been 
additional questions regarding the existing cladding from our lenders.
Target said it could extend the deadline for two weeks, but after that an updated valuation 
would be required.
Ms P and Mr U werent able to go ahead at this time, and so their redemption request 
lapsed. In May 2022 they again asked about redemption. A further valuation was carried out, 
and this time the property was valued at £540,000, leading to a redemption figure of 
£108,000. Ms P and Mr U paid this amount in August 2022.
Our investigator said that Target ought to have allowed Ms P and Mr U to redeem their 
mortgage based on the first valuation, from April 2021. However, he didnt think this had 
caused them any loss because even if Target had issued a redemption statement and 
allowed the process to go ahead, he didnt think Ms P and Mr U would have been able to 
repay their mortgage at this time as they didnt have the finance to do so in place. He said 
that it was only in mid-2022 that they had a mortgage offer agreed allowing them to 
re-finance the help to buy loan and so any delays by Target before that didnt make any 
difference to the overall outcome. But he recognised that the delays and poor 
communication were frustrating and upsetting for Ms P and Mr U, and said Target should 
increase its offer of compensation to £350.
Target accepted that. But Ms P and Mr U didnt. They said their plan was to rent out the 
property and move abroad in early 2022. They had been advised by a mortgage broker that 
it would be difficult to increase their borrowing to repay the help to buy loan and also switch 
to a buy to let mortgage at the same time. They were advised to apply for an increased 
residential mortgage first, in 2021, then repay the help to buy loan and switch to a buy to let 
mortgage in 2022.
Ms P and Mr U say they were advised that there would be no problems obtaining the further 
borrowing, and theyve provided an email from their broker from January 2021. They 
provided details of their income and expenditure, and in reply the broker said Looking at the 
detail I do not suspect any issues with securing a remortgage for yourselves at this point to 
complete in April.
Ms P and Mr U said they then approached Target to obtain a redemption statement so that 
they could know exactly how much additional borrowing they would need to apply for. 
Because Target didnt provide a redemption statement, they didnt complete the mortgage 
application and never received an offer. But based on the brokers advice, theyre confident 
they would have been able to borrow enough to redeem the help to buy loan had Target let 
them do so.
Ms P and Mr U say that Target then changed the requirements for a valuation retrospectively 
and required their surveyor to complete an additional declaration before it would accept the 
valuation. Their surveyor wouldnt agree to that, so they had to pay for a second valuation in 
October 2021. They dont think thats fair, and want Target to refund this cost to them.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint came to me for a final decision to be 
made. I took a slightly different view to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to 
allow the parties to comment on my thinking before I make a final decision.
My provisional decisionIn my provisional decision, I said:
As a regulated entity, in administering the loan on behalf of the lender Target is 
carrying out the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lenders duties, and 
exercising the lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as 
collecting payments the lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must 
do what the lender is required to do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, 
while acting on the lenders behalf. And as a regulated firm it has wider obligations to 
act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, it has appointed Target to act on its behalf as 
 using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent. Ms P and Mr U 
were told to deal with Target at all times and Target was presented as being 
responsible for the management and administration of the loan agreement.
Im satisfied that these are matters I can take into account in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and 
as the regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in its own right, Target is the 
appropriate firm to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a 
regulated activity, it has an obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the 
lenders duties.
Under the loan terms and conditions, Ms P and Mr U are entitled to redeem the loan 
at any time, either by selling the property or by repaying in some other way (such as 
from savings, or by taking further borrowing on the main mortgage). The amount 
required to redeem the loan is the same proportion of the propertys value as 
originally borrowed  20% in this case  as determined by an independent valuation.
According to the terms and conditions, a redemption request should be made to 
Target as the nominated agent. A valuation is then arranged by the appointment of a 
qualified surveyor by agreement between the parties. That valuation is binding in 
setting the redemption figure, and the loan should be repaid within three months 
(extendable to four on application) of the valuation.
In this case, Ms P and Mr U followed the appropriate process for redeeming the loan, 
by notifying Target and then  at Targets request  obtaining an independent 
valuation of their property. They then sent the valuation to Target.
This ought to have entitled Ms P and Mr U to redeem their loan. Theyd followed the 
proper process. The terms and conditions require a valuer to be appointed by 
agreement  but by telling Ms P and Mr U to instruct a valuer of their choice, in my 
view that meant Target agreed to their choice and so the chosen valuers valuation 
was final and binding.
That means that, applying the terms and conditions, Ms P and Mr U ought to have 
been able to redeem their loan from April 2021. Once a valid redemption request had 
been made and the property valued, theres nothing in the terms and conditions that 
entitles the lender  or entitles Target, exercising the lenders rights and performing 
its duties as a regulated entity  to refuse or delay a redemption request.
However, Target didnt allow the redemption to proceed. It didnt issue the necessary 
paperwork. It simply told Ms P and Mr U that their request was under review. And 
then it told them that their valuer would need to sign a further declaration before the request could be considered. As the valuer wasnt willing to do that, Ms P and Mr U 
felt compelled to arrange another valuation from a valuer who was willing to sign the 
declaration.
In my view this wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive said that 
under the terms and conditions, Target wasnt able to delay the redemption once a 
binding valuation had been produced. Ive not seen anything that suggests that the 
first valuation wasnt valid either considering the terms and conditions, or considering 
the professional guidance for valuers. If Target wanted the valuation to be in a 
particular format, or wanted the valuer to agree to a particular declaration, or wanted 
to impose any other requirements, the time to do so was before the valuation was 
carried out not afterwards.
Ive then gone on to think about what the consequences of this were. Having looked 
at the wider circumstances, I dont think Targets actions in delaying the redemption 
or requiring a declaration or second valuation delayed Ms P and Mr Us ability to 
redeem the loan.
I say that because Ms P and Mr U werent selling their property. Their intention was 
to repay the loan by further mortgage borrowing  they planned to increase their 
residential mortgage first, then replace it with a buy to let mortgage and move 
abroad, letting the property out.
However, Im not persuaded that Ms P and Mr U would have been able to do that in 
2021, even if Target had issued a redemption statement promptly following the first 
valuation. Their property was impacted by fire safety concerns. An EWS1 had been 
commissioned by the building owner and the building had been rated B2  meaning 
that there were substantial risks that required remediation work.
Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage market that it was very difficult if not 
impossible to obtain a mortgage on a B2 rated property at this time  and that would 
include taking additional borrowing on an existing mortgage. The market has moved 
on more recently, both because of changes in guidance and lender risk appetite and 
because individual properties are either remediated or have clear remediation plans 
(including funding) in place. That explains why Ms P and Mr U were eventually able 
to obtain a mortgage and repay their loan in 2022  but I dont think its likely they 
would have been able to in 2021.
Ms P and Mr U have pointed to an email from their mortgage broker advising that the 
broker didnt anticipate any difficulty in obtaining a mortgage. But that was in the 
context of looking at their finances and affordability. Affordability is only one of the 
things that needs to be considered  the nature of the property and the lenders 
appetite for using it as security (or increased security) for the lending is also crucial. 
So while the brokers email shows the broker believed they would satisfy affordability 
requirements, its not persuasive evidence that it would have been possible for them 
to obtain a mortgage (or further borrowing on their existing mortgage) on a B2-rated 
property at this time. I think its unlikely that Ms P and Mr U would have been able to 
finance the redemption of their help to buy loan much before they actually did so, in 
2022, whatever Target did or didnt do.
For those reasons, I dont think Targets failure to accept the first valuation affected 
whether or not Ms P and Mr U were able to redeem their loan. Im not persuaded 
they would have been able to even if it had been accepted.
But they didnt know that at the time. They hadnt completed an application to their lender. Im satisfied that they wanted to redeem and would at least have tried (though 
likely without success) to raise the finance. So when Target refused to accept the first 
valuation and insisted on the declaration, Ms P and Mr U commissioned a second 
valuation. If Target had not done that, they wouldnt have incurred that cost.
Had things gone right, Ms P and Mr U would have paid for the first valuation, Target 
would have issued a redemption statement and Ms P and Mr U would then have tried 
 and likely failed  to raise the finance. The first valuation would then have expired, 
since valuations are valid for three months only, with a maximum extension of one 
month. By the time they were able to raise the finance, a new valuation would have 
been required.
That means that had Target acted fairly and reasonably, Ms P and Mr U would still 
have paid for the first and third valuations. But they would not have needed to pay for 
the second. Im therefore satisfied that Target should reimburse them for that cost. In 
addition, Targets failure to accept the first valuation, and its poor communication and 
delays, caused Ms P and Mr U unnecessary upset and inconvenience. Im satisfied 
£350 is fair compensation for that.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms P and Mr U confirmed they had no further comments to make. Target did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change my mind about how to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Reimburse Ms P and Mr U for the costs of the second valuation, adding simple 
annual interest of 8%* running from the date they paid the valuer to date of refund.
Pay Ms P and Mr U £350 compensation (including the amounts previously offered). 
If payment is not made within 28 days of the date Ms P and Mr U accept this decision (if they 
do), simple annual interest of 8%* running from the date of acceptance to date of payment 
should be added.
*Target may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, as required by 
HMRC. But it should tell Ms P and Mr U what it has deducted so they can reclaim the tax if 
theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman