DRN-2810491
The complaint
Ms V complains that having received a refund for an exchange rate overcharge from 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, they havent identified numerous other international payment 
transactions where theyve overcharged.
What happened
Barclays Bank PLC wrote to Ms V in January 2019 to advise that theyd completed a recent 
review of international payments completed on her account. Theyd identified an overcharge 
and confirmed that they would refund the overcharged amount together with interest of 8% 
simple per annum. The overcharge was due to an error with the foreign exchange rate used 
for an international payment received by Ms V.
In early 2020, Ms V contacted Barclays to ask for a breakdown of the refund calculations. 
Barclays replied by letter on 19 February 2020 providing the information requested. 
Ms V wasnt happy with the information that Barclays sent. So, she complained to Barclays 
on 26 February 2020. She said that there were hundreds of other payments that had been 
overcharged. She also said that there was another account that they hadnt looked at. Ms V 
asked Barclays to make refunds for the overcharges on all the other transactions.
Barclays replied to Ms V by letter on 11 March 2020. They explained how their review had 
been conducted and assured Ms V that no further refunds were due. They didnt agree that 
theyd done anything wrong.
Ms V wasnt happy with Barclays response, so she contacted them again. But Barclays 
werent willing to reopen Ms Vs complaint. So, she decided to refer matters to this service.
After approaching us, Ms V continued to contact Barclays on a number of occasions, by 
email and over the telephone and said that there were various inaccuracies in what Barclays 
were saying and what theyd included in their letters. 
Barclays replied, by letter, on 23 July 2020. They said that they hadnt received some of Ms 
Vs letters. They confirmed that all the information provided by Ms V had been fully 
investigated and that no further refunds were due. They acknowledged the delays in 
responding to her further complaints and offered compensation of £50  which Ms V 
accepted.
Ms V continued to contact Barclays pointing out that their letters had contained incorrect 
dates for referring her complaint to this service. Barclays apologised for this mistake and 
offered Ms V a further £50 compensation. They again confirmed that no further refunds were 
due to her.
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Ms Vs complaint. He didnt 
think that Barclays had done anything wrong and didnt need to take any further action.
Ms V didnt agree with our investigators view. She wanted her complaint to be looked at by 
an ombudsman in order to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays original letter from January 2019 to Ms V explains that they had overchargedin 
respect of certain payments between August 2005 and December 2015. It detailed the 
amount to be refunded and included compensatory interest at a rate of 8%. This is what I 
would expect to see in these circumstances.
Barclays said that the overcharging issue was identified as part of a periodic internal review 
relating to international payments and how they were processed. That review identified that 
the rate applied to some international payments resulted in additional costs to some of their 
customers. Theyve emphasised that not all payments were impacted by this. The issue only 
related to some payments exceeding £25,000 in value between August 2005 and December 
2015. So, Barclays review focussed on identifying these payments. The refund provided to 
Ms V related to this review. Its relevant to recognise that there will usually be a different rate 
offered for very large (or very small) transactions. This would help to explain why only some 
larger transactions were affected.
Following Ms Vs request, Barclays wrote to her in February 2020 providing details of the 
payment that had been affected. It had been received in US$ and was converted into £GBP. 
The letter details the £GBP amount that Ms V received and the £GBP amount she shouldve 
received. It clearly shows the difference and the interest amount that Barclays have applied 
together with the total amount refunded. So, I think that this provides a clear explanation as 
requested by Ms V.
Ms V wanted Barclays to review all other international payments on her account together 
with another account she held. Barclays have, on several occasions, confirmed to Ms V that 
only one affected payment had been identified as part of their internal review process. 
Theyve confirmed the same to this service. 
During a telephone conversation that Ms V had with Barclays in March 2020, one of their 
agents identified another payment received for more than £25,000. The agent agreed to ask 
Barclays review team to look at this transaction. Ms V wanted to know if it had also been 
affected. 
Barclays confirmed theyd reviewed this transaction and found that it hadnt been impacted 
by the exchange rate issue. But they didnt respond to Ms V until July 2020. So, they 
apologised for the delay and paid compensation to Ms V of £50. I think that this is fair and is 
what Id expect in these circumstances. 
Ms V said that shed made hundreds of payments from her US$ account during the period in 
question. Barclays have been clear in explaining that the issue identified only affected some 
international payments received where a foreign exchange transaction was involved. 
The main issue here is that Ms V remains unconvinced that Barclays have reviewed all the 
international payment transactions made from or to her accounts with them. Barclays have 
been transparent about this problem throughout. Theyd identified an exchange rate issue 
with some payments received, identified those transactions and made refunds as 
appropriate. 
Barclays established a specific review team with the responsibility of identifying all the 
affected payments. The team calculated and arranged any refunds due and communicated 
these to the Barclays customers affected. Barclays did as I would expect to see in these 
circumstances, and Im satisfied that they conducted their review in an appropriate manner.Ms V later pointed out to Barclays that letters theyd sent on 20 March 2020 and 23 July 
2020 incorrectly said that she could refer her complaint(s) to this service within six months of 
11 March 2019. Barclays apologised. The letters shouldve said six months from 11 March 
2020. So, they offered further compensation of £50 for their mistake. Once again, I think this 
is fair in the circumstances. Importantly, I cant see that this ultimately impacted upon Ms Vs 
ability to refer her complaint to us. So, I cant reasonably say that this mistake resulted in any 
loss for Ms V.
In reviewing Ms Vs complaint, Ive not been provided with anything that persuades me to 
believe that Barclays review wasnt completed properly and comprehensively. I realise that 
Ms V will be disappointed but, on balance, I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays have 
done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman