DRN-3059204
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that NewDay Ltd approved him for several lines of credit which werent
affordable for him at that time.
Mr J is also unhappy that NewDay subsequently increased the credit limit on two of his credit
lines on several occasions, all of which he feels were unaffordable for him at those times.  
What happened
Mr J applied for three differently branded NewDay administered credit accounts in January
2014, August 2015, and March 2017 respectively. His applications were approved, and he
was issued credit cards for all three NewDay administered brands. Subsequently, the credit
limit on two of Mr Js credit lines was increased on several occasions.
In 2020, Mr J raised a complaint with NewDay on the basis that he felt that the lines of credit
that had been offered to him werent affordable for him at those times and that this should
have been apparent to NewDay if theyd conducted the checks into his financial position that
they should have conducted before offering the credit to him.
NewDay looked at Mr Js complaint, but they noted that they had undertaken checks into Mr
Js financial position before approving him for credit or for credit limit increases, and that in
all instances there had been nothing resulting from those checks that they felt should have
made them consider that the credit being offered to Mr J was unaffordable for him at those
times. So, they didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that NewDay had acted
unreasonably by approving Mr J for the credit accounts in the first instances, but they noted
that Mr Js account usage history showed that he maintained the accounts close to the credit
limit at all times and usually only paid the minimum required monthly payment amount.
Our investigator felt that this usage demonstrated that Mr J couldnt afford any of the credit
limit increases provided to him by NewDay, so they recommended that the complaint be
upheld in Mr Js favour on that basis and that NewDay should take corrective action
accordingly.
NewDay didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 September 2021 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that, before 
offering credit to a customer or increasing the limit of a customers existing credit, the 
business would undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks 
to confirm that the credit being offered would be affordable for that customer at that 
time.
NewDay say that theyve done that here. In all instances, NewDay say that before 
approving Mr Js credit account applications they took information from Mr J 
regarding his monthly income and expenditure to determine that Mr J would be able 
to afford any potential monthly repayments that might be required on the account, as 
well as obtained information from a credit reference agency about Mr J so as to 
better understand Mr Js wider financial position at those times.
Furthermore, at the time of all the subsequent credit limit increases, NewDay contend 
that they reviewed Mr Js recent account usage to check for signs that Mr J might be 
struggling to maintain his credit balance, and updated their understanding of Mr Js 
wider financial position via information sourced from a credit reference agency.
NewDay also contend that, in all instances, there was nothing resulting from these 
checks that should have given them cause to suspect the Mr J might not be able to 
afford the credit being offered to him at those times.
Our investigator, in their review of this complaint, recommended that this complaint 
be upheld in Mr Js favour on the basis that Mr J maintained the balance of his 
accounts close to the credit limits of those account and usually made only the 
minimum monthly payments required on the accounts. Our investigator felt that this 
account usage should have demonstrated to NewDay that Mr J was struggling to 
manage his accounts such that no credit limit increases should have been offered by 
NewDay to Mr J.
NewDay dont agree with the position put forwards by our investigator here and 
contend that it shouldnt be the case that a customer who maintains their account 
within the credit limit of that account should be considered as being in potential 
financial difficulty, regardless of the level of monthly payment that customer chooses 
to make.
I find NewDays argument compelling here, and I dont feel that its reasonable to 
consider that a customer who maintains their credit account within the set credit limit 
shouldnt be offered an increase to that credit limit. And while it may be the case that 
a customer only makes the minimum monthly payments required on the account, I 
dont feel that this in and of itself should be considered as being an indicator of 
potential financial difficulty, but rather I acknowledge that paying the monthly 
minimum payment on an account is a choice which a credit account holder is entitled 
to make.
That isnt to say that there arent any instances where Id consider that a customer 
choosing to make only the minimum payments required on the account isnt a 
potential indicator of financial difficulty. And it may well be the case that I would give 
such account usage greater credence where other indictors of potential financial 
difficulty exist  such as a customer failing to maintain the balance of their account 
within the set credit limit and incurring over-limit fees as a result.
In this instance, Mr J has three differently branded NewDay administered credit 
accounts. For ease of reference, I will refer to these as brands A, M, and D.Brand A
Mr J applied for this credit account in January 2014. NewDay have explained that at 
the point of application, Mr J confirmed that he was employed with an annual income 
of approximately £15,300. NewDay have also explained that the information that they 
received from the credit reference agency didnt show that Mr J appeared to be in 
any financial difficulty at that time, including that there was no record of any other 
credit accounts in arrears or that Mr J was in any debt management programmes or 
repayment plans, and whilst there were defaults showing on Mr Js credit file, these 
were over 36 months prior to the point of application.
NewDay didnt feel that this information suggested that Mr J might not be able to 
afford a credit card account, and they approved Mr J for the Brand A credit account 
with an initial credit limit of £250. And, having considered the information as 
described above, Im satisfied that NewDay didnt act unreasonably by approving Mr 
J for the Brand A credit account with such a relatively low initial limit.
Three months later, in April 2014, NewDay offered a credit limit increase on this 
account to Mr J  from £250 to £400. The information that NewDay received from the 
credit reference agency at that time didnt show that there had been any noticeable 
deterioration of Mr Js wider financial position since the Brand A credit account was 
opened. Furthermore, NewDays review of Mr Js usage of the Brand A credit 
account demonstrated that Mr A had maintained the balance of the account within 
the agreed limit and hadnt missed or been late with any monthly payments or 
incurred any over-limit fees or cash advance fees. As such, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably for NewDay to have offered the credit limit increase to Mr J on his Brand 
A credit account at that time.
The credit limit on Mr Js account remained at £400 for approximately 18 months, 
until NewDay offered to increase the credit limit to £800 in October 2015. At this time, 
NewDay obtained information from a credit reference agency to update their 
understanding of Mr Js wider financial position, and once again this information 
didnt appear to highlight any apparent deterioration in Mr Js financial position such 
that NewDay ought to have concluded that the credit limit increase being offered to 
Mr J might not be affordable for him.
Additionally, the prior 18 months account usage demonstrated that Mr J had 
maintained the balance of the account within the credit limit and hadnt incurred any 
over-limit fees during that period. And, while there was one instance where Mr J had 
withdrawn cash from this credit account, and incurred a cash advance fee as a result, 
this was an isolated incident which occurred shortly after the credit limit was 
increased to £400 and well over a year before the credit limit increase to £800 was 
being considered. Accordingly, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for NewDay to 
conclude that Mr J wasnt struggling financially at that time and that he would be able 
to afford the credit limit increase being offered to him.
However, the picture of Mr Js financial stability that I draw from how he maintained 
his Brand A credit account becomes less positive soon after this second credit limit 
increase, and its notable that in the three months immediately preceding the third 
credit limit increase  from £800 to £1,400 in April 2016  Mr J hadnt been able to 
keep the balance of the account within the credit limit for any of those three months 
and had incurred over-limit fees on the account as a result.Its also notable that Mr J had taken two cash advances from his card around that 
same time and had incurred fees for this also. And, while it isnt necessarily the case 
that the taking of cash from a credit account is an indicator of potential financial 
difficulty, given the wider circumstances here  that Mr J wasnt able to maintain the 
balance of his account within the agreed credit limit  I do feel that the taking of cash 
advances by Mr J around this time should have given further cause for NewDay to 
suspect that Mr J might not be able to afford a further credit limit increase, such as 
NewDay subsequently offered to him.
It follows from this that I dont feel that NewDay increasing the credit limit on Mr Js 
Brand A credit account from £800 to £1,400 was fair or reasonable, and I will be 
provisionally upholding this aspect of Mr Js complaint at this point. Furthermore, 
given that I dont feel that this credit limit increase should have taken place, it follows 
by consequence that I also feel that all later credit limit increases also shouldnt have 
taken place, and I will be issuing provisional instructions to NewDay to take the 
relevant corrective action.
Brand M
Mr J applied for this credit account in August 2015. NewDay have explained that at 
the point of application, Mr J confirmed that he was employed with an annual income 
of approximately £15,700. NewDay have also explained that the information that they 
received from the credit reference agency didnt show that Mr J appeared to be in 
any financial difficulty at that time, including that there was no record of any other 
credit accounts in arrears or that Mr J was in any debt management programmes or 
repayment plans, and whilst there were defaults showing on Mr Js credit file, these 
were over 54 months prior to the point of application.
Additionally, at the time of this application, Mr J had been maintaining his Brand A 
credit account without significant incident and had recently had his credit limit on that 
other account increased to £800. As such, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonably 
for NewDay to have approved Mr Js Brand M credit account application and to have 
issued Mr J with a credit card with an initial £900 credit limit.
In December 2015, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mr Js Brand M account to 
£1,500. NewDay have explained that the information that they obtained from the 
credit reference agency at this time didnt appear to show that Mr Js wider financial 
position had worsened, and a review of Mr Js account usage showed that Mr J had 
maintained the account comfortably within the credit limit since the account was 
opened and hadnt incurred any over-limit fees and only one cash advance fee. Im 
therefore satisfied that there wasnt compelling evidence available to NewDay at that 
time to suggest that Mr J might not be able to afford the credit limit increase being 
offered to him and that NewDay didnt act unreasonably by offering such an increase.
Three months later, in March 2016, NewDay increased the credit limit on Mr Js 
account once again, from £1,500 to £1,800. However, its notable from the usage of 
Mr Js account at this time that he had incurred an over-limit fee during this three-
month period, and that hed also incurred a cash advance fee.
Its also notable that this credit limit increase occurred only one month before the 
credit limit increase on Mr Js Brand A credit account which I have previously stated I 
feel shouldnt have happened on the basis that it should have been evident to 
NewDay that that Mr J might have been in financial difficulty at that time. As such, 
given that NewDay would have been able to cross reference the usage of Mr Js 
Brand A credit account when considering whether to offer and implement the credit limit increase to £1,800 on his Brand M account, its also my position that NewDay 
ought reasonably to have concluded that Mr J might have been in financial difficulty 
at this time, such that a further increase to his credit limit on his Brand M account 
also might not have been affordable for him.
It follows then that I dont feel that NewDay acted fairly or reasonably in increasing Mr 
Js credit limit on this account at this time. As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this 
aspect of Mr Js complaint at this point and issuing provisional instructions to 
NewDay to take relevant corrective action.
Brand D
Mr J applied for this credit account in March 2017. Given that Ive stated that the 
credit limit increases in March and April 2016 on the previous two credit accounts, as 
explained above, shouldnt have taken place, it could be argued that I should 
consider that the approval of this later new credit application also shouldnt have 
taken place.
However, I feel that the approximate year that had elapsed since March/April 2016 - 
when I feel that NewDay ought reasonably to have concluded that Mr J might be in 
financial difficulty - to when Mr J applied for this third account in March 2017, is 
sufficiently long that it was reasonably for NewDay to have considered this 
application on its standalone merits.
At the time of this application, Mr J confirmed to NewDay that he was employed with 
an approximate annual income of £19,000. Additionally, while the information that 
NewDay obtained from the credit reference agency did indicate that Mr J had other 
existing credit debt totalling close to £9,000, it didnt show that Mr J was struggling to 
manage his existing credit obligations including that there were no recent missed or 
late payments recorded and no instances of Mr J being in any debt repayment plans.
Furthermore, while it remains my position that NewDay shouldnt have offered the 
credit limit increases to Mr J in March and April 2016 respectively - given the 
indicators of potential financial difficulty that were present on Mr Js account at those 
times - the recent account usage on Mr Js other two accounts at the point of this 
application in March 2017 didnt present any information that I feel should have 
prompted NewDay to decline this new account application.
As such, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for NewDay to have approved Mr Js 
application for a Brand D credit account at this time and to have issued a credit card 
to Mr J with a credit limit of £900.
Finally, its notable that NewDay didnt increase the credit limit on this Brand D credit
account at any time, and so it follows from this that my provisional decision will be 
that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint as it relates to this Brand D account.
Summary
My provisional decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Js favour on the 
basis that all credit limit increases from March 2016 onwards on the Brand A and 
Brand M credit accounts shouldnt have taken place.
My provisional instructions to NewDay are that they must recall these accounts and
reimburse to the accounts all relevant interest, fees, and charges incurred or accrued 
on those accounts beyond the relevant credit limit increases.If these reimbursements result in either of these accounts having a credit balance in 
Mr Js favour, NewDay must pay that balance to Mr J along with 8% simple interest. 
However, if a balance remains outstanding to be paid on the account, then NewDay 
must contact Mr J to arrange a suitable repayment plan with him, based on an 
assessment of what Mr J can reasonably afford to pay.
Finally, NewDay must also remove all adverse credit reporting from Mr Js credit file 
for the Brand A and Brand M accounts from the relevant dates.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr J and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision.
NewDay confirmed that they accepted my provisional decision in principle but questioned 
whether my final decision should include the instruction to remove the adverse credit 
reporting from Mr Js credit file, especially if following the instructed reimbursements there 
were still outstanding balances to be paid by Mr J.
I can appreciate NewDays position here, and there can be cases where I might consider it 
fair that adverse credit reporting shouldnt be amended in instances similar to this one, but I 
would only consider this if instructed reimbursements left the balance of a single account 
higher than the applicable credit limit  i.e. the credit limit which I consider to be fair and 
reasonable on the account. 
This is because in such an instance I feel that theres a reasonable chance that the account 
holder might have struggled to bring their account back within the contractual terms of the 
account and might therefore still have incurred adverse credit reporting, even had the credit 
limit increases I am instructing against never taken place. Additionally, I wouldnt consider it 
fair to allow a default to remain on a credit file, for instance, if the reimbursements to the 
account took the account balance below the fair and reasonable credit limit.
However, in this instance, because there are two accounts in question that were active 
simultaneously and which had separate credit limit increases which I dont feel were fair in a 
relatively short space of time, I dont feel that it can be reasonably hypothesised that Mr J 
would in all likelihood still have fallen into trouble on one or both of the accounts had those 
credit limit increases never taken place. Indeed, I feel that it may have been the case that 
the two separate credit accounts mutually reinforced the spiral of unsustainable debt in 
which Mr J found himself.
Because of this, I continue to feel that in this specific instance the fairest outcome here is to 
instruct NewDay to remove the adverse credit reporting from Mr Js credit file, and it follows 
from this that my final decision here will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Js favour on 
the basis as stated in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
NewDay must recall the Brand A and Brand M credit accounts and reimburse to those 
accounts all relevant interest, fees, and charges incurred or accrued on those account 
beyond the credit limit increases that took place from March 2016 onwards. This is the 
increase from £800 t0 £1,400 on Brand A, and from £1,500 to £1,800 on Brand M.
If these reimbursements result in either of these accounts having a credit balance in Mr Js
favour, NewDay must pay that balance to Mr J along with 8% simple interest, calculated to 
the date of payment. However, if a balance remains outstanding to be paid on the account, then NewDay must contact Mr J to arrange a suitable repayment plan with him, based on an 
assessment of what Mr J can reasonably afford to pay.
Finally, NewDay must also remove all adverse credit reporting from Mr Js credit file for the
Brand A and Brand M accounts from the relevant dates.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman