DRN-4298360
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage application that Mr P and Mrs T made through Quilter 
Wealth Limited (QW). They say that due to errors on QWs part, they didnt have enough 
money to complete their purchase. The transaction was delayed whilst the lender agreed to 
provide a bigger mortgage, and Mr P and Mrs T say theyve lost out financially as a result.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 17 July 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr P, Mrs T and QW. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr P and Mrs T being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary 
of the key events, rounding the figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be 
because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr P and Mrs T wanted to buy a new home together. Mr P already part-owned a 
shared ownership property, subject to a mortgage of around £51,500 with a lender Ill 
call B. The plan was for the new mortgage to be with B, so that Mr Ps existing fixed 
rate deal could be ported to the new mortgage. His share of the sale proceeds from 
the shared ownership was recorded as being about £102,000, and he and Mrs T 
were providing about £8,000 from savings. The new property they were buying was 
priced at £390,000; with all costs factored in, QWs advisor worked out that theyd 
need to borrow around £293,000. 
The application was made to B, and a mortgage offer was issued in two parts; a little 
under £242,000 of new borrowing on a five-year fixed rate of 1.53%, and around 
£51,500 at the ported rate of 1.79%, fixed until January 2026. However, when Mr P 
and Mrs Ts solicitor were preparing for completion, it became apparent there wasnt 
enough money in the equation. What hadnt been factored in was that the existing 
mortgage of £51,500 with B needed to be repaid from the sale proceeds of Mr Ps 
30% share in his existing home. In reality, the available funds from the sale were only 
about half what had been recorded on the fact-find
At short notice, B was asked to increase the new mortgage; it did so, agreeing to 
make a new offer of approximately £332,500; a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of 85%. 
Again, the offer was made up of two parts; just under £281,000 of new borrowing on 
a five-year fixed rate of 2.15%, and around £51,500 at the ported rate. This left Mr P 
and Mrs T having to find £58,500 from other sources, which they managed to do. 
Completion was delayed whilst all this was organised. When Mr P and Mrs T 
complained, QW rejected the complaint.
When the case came to us, our investigator found QW to have been at fault, and 
recommended it reimburse Mr P and Mrs T for the extra interest theyll pay on the 
new borrowing element of the mortgage, and pay them £300 compensation
Miss B and Mr M accepted the investigators findings. QW disagreed, saying it wasnt 
its advisors fault Mr P and Mrs T had too small a deposit. The case comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator; QW, by its 
errors and omissions, has caused significant financial detriment to Mr P and Mrs T. 
But more detail is required about where QW went wrong and the parameters for the 
settlement I will be requiring it to provide. By issuing this provisional decision, Im 
giving both parties the opportunity to comment before I finalise my decision.
The underlying problem that gave rise to this complaint is simpler than it might seem, 
and contrary to its claims otherwise, QW is very much responsible. When the interest 
rate product of an existing mortgage is ported (i.e. carried over) to a new mortgage, it 
is just the product that is ported; the debt itself is not. The money owed under the 
existing mortgage has to be repaid, and the legal charge vacated, in order that the 
property being sold can be passed on without any incumbrance.
What this means is that the £102,000 that Mr P and Mrs T thought would be the sale 
proceeds from the sale of Mr Ps shared-ownership property would be only about half 
that, once the existing mortgage with B had been repaid. So it was always the case 
that theyd need to borrow the higher figure theyve ended up borrowing.
I wouldnt necessarily expect lay persons such as Mr P and Mrs T to understand that 
distinction, but I would very much expect QWs mortgage advisor, as an industry 
professional, to understand that mortgage lending cant be in two places at once. Yet, 
it is clear from the messages he exchanged with Mr P and Mrs T when the shortfall 
became apparent just before scheduled completion that he did not. Instead, QWs 
advisor repeatedly sought to shift the blame to their solicitor. I dont know if QW has 
studied those messages, but if it has, it should be embarrassed by the position it has 
taken on this complaint.
What should have happened here is that QWs advisor should have made sure Mr P 
and Mrs T understood, at the start of the application process in summer 2021, that: 
the actual net proceeds from the shared-ownership sale would be more like 
£50,000 rather than £102,000, and;

to purchase a new home at £390,000, taking into account the £8000 they were 
putting in, the new mortgage would need to be in the region of £332,000
That being so, the position in which Mr P and Mrs T currently find themselves is, in all 
likelihood, not hugely different from where they would have been if QW hadnt failed 
to make sure they understood how much deposit they really had. Theyd still have 
ended up borrowing the amount they have. But if QWs advisor hadnt got thing so 
badly wrong, it would not have come as such a shock to Mr P and Mrs T that theyd 
need to borrow the amount they did. The larger mortgage from B would still have happened, but it would have been arranged in a more orderly fashion, and in a 
calmer environment where Mr P and Mrs T werent not under the pressure of a 
delayed completion. 
The other key difference is that if the right amount had been applied for at the outset, 
the right amount would have been offered first time around, and the new borrowing 
would have been at an interest rate that B was offering in January 2022 rather than in 
March 2022. B has provided us with details of the rates it was offering in January 
2022. For an 85% LTV and a broker fee of £999  so like for like - the five-year fixed 
rate in January 2022 would have been 2.05%.
Its reasonable to conclude that but for QWs failings, the new mortgage from B would 
been issued in time for Mr P and Mrs T to complete the transaction on the original 
schedule, and with the new borrowing at 2.05% rather than 2.15%. If that had 
happened as it should, Mr P and Mrs T would have been paying interest on the new 
borrowing at a lower rate than they currently are. 
However, the new, bigger, mortgage would have started sooner than it actually did. 
So whilst they may not have realised it, Mr P and Mrs T have also accrued a small 
saving to offset against the extra cost. For the purposes of calculating redress, I have 
used the original intended completion date, assuming nothing had gone wrong, of 25 
February 2022. The actual completion date was 17 March 2022
Mr P and Mrs T are paying interest on the extra borrowing at 2.15%, instead of 
2.05% and will continue to do so until 31 May 2027. So, the additional borrowing cost 
to them of QWs failing is:
the difference in interest charged each month on the new borrowing part of the 
mortgage from 17 March 2022 to 31 May 2027, between 2.15% and 2.05%; less
the interest that would have been charged at 2.05% on the new borrowing part of 
the mortgage from 25 February 2022 to 17 March 2022.
On the assumption that all payments to B are made in full and on time, QW will then 
have to calculate each months differential interest, and show its workings. QW 
doesnt need to calculate and present the redress figure in response to this 
provisional decision; at this stage, QW (and Mr P and Mrs T) are being asked to 
agree to the principal of the settlement. If the parties do agree, then QW will be 
required to present the calculation when carrying out the settlement.
Ive then considered the question of interest on the interest reimbursements. Each 
time Mr P and Mrs T have paid more each month than they needed to due to QWs 
shortcomings, theyve been unfairly deprived of the extra amount. That would, 
ordinarily, entitle them to interest on each overpayment, from the time it was paid, up 
to the time it is reimbursed. The relevant rate is 8% simple per annum. 
However, thats not the case for the extra interest payments they havent yet made, 
but will make between the date the complaint is settled and 31 May 2027. For those, 
Mr P and Mrs T are going to receive redress before the loss has been incurred, so no 
interest is due. In fact, not only is no interest due, but theres also a theoretical 
financial benefit to them receiving the redress before the loss has occurred. In the 
interest of fairness and simplicity, Im minded to conclude that the two should cancel 
each other out, and that I should not include an award of interest.  Mr P and Mr T have told us they also had to reimburse their buyer £415 for 
accommodation and storage costs, because his move in was held up. Subject to 
them providing corroborative evidence of the agreement, and the payment being 
made, I am presently minded to order QW to reimburse this sum to Mr P and Mrs T. 
Id ask Mr P and Mrs T to include this proof, if they have it, with their response to this 
provisional decision. To be clear, without it, I shall not make this part of the award in 
any final decision.
Lastly, for the impact this situation has had on Mr P and Mrs T, Im not persuaded 
£300 is adequate compensation. The whole experience of making these 
unnecessarily high monthly payments, and fighting for a fair outcome, will have 
caused Mr P and Mrs T lot of worry and stress that could have been avoided if QW 
hadnt got thing wrong in the first place, and then secondly, had responded to the 
complaint fairly and reasonably. As things stand, I have detected a complete lack of 
understanding on QWs part, and an absence of any empathy towards Mr P and Mrs 
T for what it has put them through.
Both parties were given a two-week time frame in which to make their further comments. 
Both have accepted the provisional decision, but QW disagreed with my reference to 
significant financial detriment. It also took exception to the tone and language I used when 
describing the advisors actions and the investigation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and both parties accepting the gist of it, I wont be changing my decision. However, Ill 
address QWs points about my narrative.
The reference to financial detriment should have read non-financial detriment; I apologise 
for the omission. As for the tone of my comments about the advisors actions and the 
investigation, I stand by them. They reflected my very genuine concern about the tone and 
content of the comments the advisor made about the solicitors in particular  which QW has 
implicitly defended, when it should have known the position was indefensible. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering Quilter Wealth Limited to do the 
following:
reimburse Mr P and Mrs T the difference in interest charged each month on the new 
borrowing part of the mortgage from 17 March 2022 to 31 May 2027, between 2.15% 
and 2.05%, less the interest that would have been charged at 2.05% on the new 
borrowing part of the mortgage from 25 February 2022 to 17 March 2022;
subject to evidence of the payment having been made, reimburse Mr R and Mrs T £415 
paid to their buyer; and
pay Mrs and Mr P £750 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman