DRN-1854572
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc ("Barclays") mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy. 
What happened
Mrs G took out a personal loan with Barclays in 2009. At the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy which only included life cover. The PPI would have paid off the outstanding balance of 
her loan in the event of her death.
Mrs G complains that she didn't agree to buy the PPI and that she couldn't have benefitted 
from it.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs G's complaint shouldn't be upheld. Mrs G disagreed, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and I've taken 
this into account when deciding this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding Mrs G's 
complaint. I'll explain why I've reached this decision.
The sale of the PPI took place over the phone after Mrs G's loan had been agreed. Given 
the time which has passed there isn't a recording of the call available. Barclays has provided 
copied of the call scripts which were in use at the time. If followed, these make it clear to the 
customer that PPI is optional, and it actively seeks the customer's permission to add it. I 
haven't seen anything to suggest Barclay's usual processes weren't followed. I also note that 
Mrs G was sent a letter about the PPI after the sale and that the premiums appeared 
separately on Mrs G's bank statements. So if she hadn't agreed to buy it, I think she'd have 
queried the letter when she received it or premiums when they were taken.
On the limited information available to me I think it's most likely Mrs G agreed to buy the PPI 
knowing she had a choice about it, although I understand why she wouldn't remember this 
now.
Barclays gave Mrs G a personal recommendation to buy the PPI, so it had an obligation to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for her. Mrs G didn't buy traditional elements 
of PPI - accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Instead she just bought life cover. 
Looking at Mrs G's original complaint I think it's likely she didn't know this when she brought 
her complaint - and I don't think it was explained very well to her by Barclays or this service 
to start with. Mrs G wasn't working at the time of sale, so it makes sense that Barclays didn't recommend 
accident, sickness or unemployment cover. Barclays also had to provide Mrs G with enough 
information so she could make up her own mind about the cover. Even if Barclays didn't do 
this I think Mrs G would have understood the principle of life cover for the loan. Looking at 
Mrs G's circumstances at the time I think the recommendation was suitable for her. 
Mrs G has told us that she had other means available to her at the time, such as savings, 
investments and pensions, which could have paid off the outstanding loan balance in the 
event of her death; but she hasn't been able to tell us how much. The demands and needs 
assessment completed by Barclays shows that Mrs G only had the ability to meet about 
seven months of repayments from her existing means. So I don't think she had enough 
savings that, in the event of her death, there would have been sufficient funds available in 
her estate to pay off the loan. As Mrs G was a carer for her disabled husband and elderly 
mother I think she'd have wanted to make sure the loan could be repaid without impacting 
any provisions she had made for them. So I don't think Barclays' recommendation was 
unsuitable for Mrs G. 
The cost of the policy was set out during the phone call and in the subsequent letter sent to 
Mrs G afterwards. The cost was comparable to other similar cover available elsewhere, and I 
haven't seen anything to suggest the premium was unaffordable for her. I haven't seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs G's estate would have found it particularly difficult to make a 
claim on the policy. 
So, on balance, I don't think Mrs G lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong.
 My final decision
 I'm not upholding Mrs G's complaint so it follows that Barclays Bank UK Plc doesn't have to 
pay any further compensation. I understand Barclays has already paid Mrs G some 
compensation in relation to excess commission and profit share.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman