DRN-3233201
The complaint
Mr A complains, in summary, that Metro Bank PLC did not do enough to help him recover all 
the money he had paid to a binary options investment scam using his Metro Mastercard 
debit card.
What happened
After seeing an advertisement for a merchant offering binary options investment trading, 
Trade 24, Mr A made 14 payments to them, totalling £31,500 between October 2017 to 
December 2017. But by the following year, Mr A became concerned when he discovered 
Trade 24 was not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). That led him to 
approach Metro to ask the bank to retrieve his money.
Metro did not process chargeback claims because it said Mastercards scheme rules 
indicated at the point funds are loaded into an investment, foreign exchange, or similar type 
of account, the service is considered provided as described. So it said it couldnt help him 
but paid £50 compensation to recognise it could have provided a better service. 
Our investigator concluded, first of all, that there were circumstances where the Mastercard 
scheme rules would permit chargeback claims against investment merchants like Trade 24. 
He considered that Mr A put a persuasive case forward that Trade 24 had not loaded his 
funds into an investment account, so the service had not been received. He also found, in 
any event, that there were circumstances where Metro ought to have blocked unusual 
payments and payments that matched known investment fraud, to have prevented Mr A 
losing funds. As a result, he recommended that Metro refunds Mr A his outstanding money, 
plus interest. 
Metro advised the transactions were reported more than 120 days after the transaction 
dates, which falls outside the Mastercard scheme rules. It also contacted Mastercard for 
further advice but did not get any response, so it asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for review. Metro did not comment on our investigators conclusions that it could 
have prevented the loss with fraud monitoring.
 
The complaint was referred to me for determination and I issued my provisional decision 
upholding the complaint and invited both parties to respond.
Metros response to the provisional decision
Metro didnt agree with my provisional decision and in summary said:
It doesnt dispute a lot of work has gone on over the years about raising awareness 
about potential scams and it has contributed to these efforts. 
My provisional decision failed to comment on Mr As responsibility to have conducted 
his own due diligence before making his investment to mitigate any potential losses 
he might incur. It is not for me to comment on how a bank applies its payment 
monitoring systems as this is the role of the regulator. 
The FCA issued an effective warning about Trade 24 being a potential scam on 9 
March 2016 and this note was updated on 27 September 2017 after the date of Mr 
As payments.
The transactions were authorised from a business account debit card rather than a 
personal account and were not deemed unusual.
Mr A received an inward payment of £20,000 on 11 October 2017, this appeared to 
fund the transactions.
On 12 October 2017, Mr A made an outward payment of £90,000 to an electronic 
money institution offering virtual accounts. The transaction was processed in-store, 
and at the time it asked Mr A the purpose of making the transaction. He told it he was 
sending the money for share trading. In facilitating a transaction of this size to an 
electronic account designated for share trading, the bank believes Mr A was not a 
nave/cautious investor when taking the decision to make the investments to the 
Trade 24 platform. 
Its important to recognise that banks need to strike a balance to the extent in which it 
intervenes in payments being made against the risk of delaying legitimate payment 
requests, or at risk of being seen to give investment advice. With the payment Mr A 
made in store the opportunity was there for Metro to question the purpose of the 
payment. Because it is essentially reviewing this situation with the benefit of 
hindsight, on the balance of probabilities it doesnt think its realistic to expect a bank 
colleague to uncover a fraudulent investment over the duration of a phone call. That 
said, had it approached Mr A at the time to question the transactions to Trade 24, it 
believes he would have simply confirmed they were part of a legitimate investment. 
The website pertaining to Trade 24 didnt offer any misguidance that it was regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority, only that it was a brokerage, and Mr A had the 
opportunity to fully research this firm prior to committing to invest. 
Mr A is an experienced investor who was prepared to accept the associated level of 
risk which comes with high-risk investments into Binary Options, cryptocurrency, 
CFDs, etc. It shouldnt therefore be viewed that the bank is there to act as his 
insurance policy for the return of those funds, and with the view of trying to apply 
todays targeted standards to 2017. 
Mr A accepted the provisional decision and provided some further comments. He said in 
summary:
He was unaware the payment of £90,000 was sent to an electronic account, these 
were the payment instructions he was given by Trade 24. Mr A said he found the 
junior member of staff in the store to be inexperienced and all he was asked about 
was the purpose of the payment. In any event, he has not complained about this 
transfer and rather the debit card payments alone.
When he first spoke to Trade 24, they told him they were licensed and regulated. 
Their website listed their address as an address in the City of London and they would 
call him from a London area code telephone number. Mr A didnt think a company 
could operate from the City of London if they were not appropriately licensed and 
regulated. 
This was his first time investing and he had not previously made financial 
investments. Mr A says Trade 24 told him that he would be able to withdraw from his 
platform within a short time frame. 
Mr A says there is a difference in losing money to a high-risk investment and having 
money stolen as part of a scam. He would have thought Metro would be familiar with 
these types of scams and that they would warn him of the risks in general, which it 
did not do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
binary options, commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing 
returns or losses. Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were not 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the timeusing 
sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers 
who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Trade 24 were not carrying out legitimate binary options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mr A. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
a) In 2017, binary-options traders operating in the UK were required to be licensed by 
the UKs Gambling Commission  whereas Trade 24 were not. Nor were they 
regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates 
they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend 
to comply with regulatory requirements.
b) On 9 March 2016, an alert about Trade 24 was published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) warning that they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction 
without authorisation. This is a potential indicator of dishonest intentions. 
c) On 27 September 2016, Ontario Securities and Commission published a warning 
about Trade 24 on the investor alert portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO). 
d) The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority also published an IOSCO warning 
on 19 May 2017.
e) There are several reports in the public domaine.g. foreign press and online 
forumsstating that Trade 24 were scammers. This hearsay is not in itself sufficient 
evidence of fraud. But in the context of known regulatory facts, it may fairly and 
reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an overall picture 
of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
the complaint:
a) Did Metro deal with Mr As chargeback claim fairly?b) Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr A and/or 
his account that Metro fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered some sort of 
intervention?
c) If triggered, would Metros intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mr A partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (i.e. Metro) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr A).
There was no chargeback claim presented in this case under any reason code. In my 
judgment, this omission by Metro was not an unreasonable exercise of its discretion on 
whether or not to pursue the matter against Trade 24. 
Mastercards 2017 chargeback rules (applicable to the time of Mr As transactions) state:
Chargebacks are available to the issuer for transactions in which any value is purchased for 
gambling, investment or similar purposes. However, issuers have no chargeback rights 
related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on 
any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value.
This supports Metros decision not to process chargeback claims following Mr As complaint 
that he was unable to withdraw his funds from his Trade 24 platform. And thats specifically 
because Mastercard said Metro had no right to. 
Having discussed the matter of fraud and scams with Mastercard, it has explained that 
cardholder dispute chargeback rights are restricted regardless of whether the activity was 
illegal. In short, Mastercard considers the purpose of the transaction to load funds into the 
gambling or investment account and not what activities are subsequently done with the 
funds. 
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Metro acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in connection with any rights or responsibilities under the Mastercard chargeback scheme.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Metro is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr A for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr A using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Metro. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr A was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr A is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time of the 
transactions, I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as Metro that Mr As account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr As case, there was a warning about Trade 24 on the FCAs published warning list and 
IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal more than one month prior to Mr As initial payment. It is not 
unreasonable to expect a large international bank that regularly updates its internal alerts to 
include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without 
permission. I accept the warning would not have identified what type of investment was 
being sold; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that 
these were fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, I do think 
Metro ought to have automatically blocked it; and it had over a year to update and 
communicate its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee 
might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have 
properly questioned Mr A before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all 
was well.
If Metro had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. After all, when Mr A was in store 
making an international transfer, he explained it was for share dealing. But it appears that 
Metro didnt ask further probing questions around the transaction which was for £90,000, and whilst Mr A has not complained about this transaction, I think this was a further missed 
opportunity for Metro to have intervened. 
In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect Mr A from a bad bargain or 
give investment advice, it could have explained to him that there was a regulatory warning 
and invited him to look more closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed binary options traders in that 
customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that 
time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if 
a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with binary options trading, 
including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the 
European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; and 
so forth). 
causation
If Metro had asked Mr A what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. Metro did not need to know for certain whether 
Mr A was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider 
there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Metro ought reasonably to have provided 
a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated binary options. 
Metro suggested an inward payment of £20,000 funded the investment to Trade 24. Ive 
noted that Mr A held over £80,000 in his Metro current account and had done for over six 
months prior to investing with Trade 24. These funds were relatively untouched and Trade 
24 persuaded him to send all of the available balances he had to them over a few months. 
If Metro had given a warning, I believe that Mr A would have paused and looked more 
closely into Trade 24 before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling; despite Metros 
suggestion. And the evidence suggests this was his first time putting his money into a high-
risk investment. It seems more probable that he would have made further enquiries into 
whether or not Trade 24 were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they 
were not and the various regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment 
scams (see above). In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would 
probably have exposed Trade 24s smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and 
preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really licensed UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr As payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. But 
for Metros failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr A would 
probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligenceDespite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr A was to blame for what 
happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. At the time of his 
trading, Trade 24 was subject to an FCA warning but Mr A would have needed to know how 
to search for a regulators warning. Having reviewed what information would have been 
available on a web search at the time of Mr As payments, the FCAs warning did not appear 
with any level of prominence unless you included FCA in your search. I do not place too 
much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons previously 
alluded to about the information imbalance between financial professionals and ordinary 
consumers.
Mr A trusted who he believed to be experienced traders and had no cause to doubt their 
assurances. He was persuaded they were legitimate as they were allegedly operating from 
an address in the City of London, called him from a London telephone number and had a 
legitimate looking website. Unaware of the common deceptive tactics of binary options 
scammers, I do not think he could earlier have foreseen the risk that the company he was 
dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing was no more than a 
simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr A should share blame for what happened.
I recognise that Metro paid Mr A £50 for customer service failings. I think this was fair and 
reasonable and I make no further compensation award on this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require 
Metro Bank PLC to refund all of Mr As stolen debit card payments (totalling £31,500). 
This was a current account, so Metro should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly 
deductible) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the respective dates of loss. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman