DRN-3306936
The complaint
Mr R complains that FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE) didnt provide him with the 
correct options to end his hire purchase agreement early.
What happened
Mr R acquired a car under a 39 month hire purchase agreement with FCE in March 2017. 
The car cost around £19,288.60. Under the agreement, Mr R was required to make 38 
payments of £287.70, followed by a final payment of £7,056 if he wanted to keep the car. 
The agreement was due to end on 1 July 2020.  
In May 2020, Mr R contacted FCE and said he tried to part exchange the car in late 2019, 
but he was declined for further lending. FCE told him to contact the supplying dealer once 
the restrictions imposed by the government due to Covid-19 had been lifted. And it asked  
Mr R to bring the account up to date so it could offer him an extension of up to 60 days. 
In September 2020, Mr R contacted FCE and said he had been trying to hand back the car 
for months. He said he was told by the supplying dealer he could keep the car for an 
additional three months, but he didnt need the car as he had obtained a new one. FCE 
agreed for its collection agent  who Ill refer to as M  to collect the car. But M couldnt 
arrange the collection of the car with Mr R and so in late 2020, FCE defaulted the agreement 
and passed the account to a third party. Unhappy with this, Mr R complained to FCE.
FCE issued its response to Mr Rs complaint in March 2021. It said Mr Rs account had been 
in arrears since May 2020 and because the arrears remained outstanding, it issued a default 
notice in August 2020. It also said M couldnt arrange a suitable time with Mr R to arrange 
the collection, despite it trying to arrange this with Mr R. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R referred his complaint to our service. He said both the supplying 
dealership and FCE told him he could make two more payments and then he could exit the 
agreement. So he said he stopped making payments in May 2020. He also said M couldnt 
provide him with a suitable collection date for the car due to his working hours. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think FCE had done anything wrong. 
She said that when Mr R called FCE in January 2020, he was provided with the options to 
exit the agreement. She said Mr R could have exercised his right to voluntary termination  
(VT)  but he didnt do this. She also said she thought it was unlikely that FCE had told    
Mr R he only needed to make two further payments and he could then hand back the car. 
She said because he didnt make the repayments owed under the agreement, she didnt 
think FCE had done anything wrong when it passed Mr Rs account to a third party.
Mr R disagreed and said he had made numerous attempts to resolve the issue with FCE and 
he followed its instructions by only making two further payments. He also said he was told to 
keep the car by the selling dealership and this should be considered. He said he couldnt 
arrange a time to collect the car with M due to his personal circumstances and his working 
pattern and that M wouldnt give him a specific date to collect the car. He said as a result of 
him not using the car, it wouldnt start and had flat tyres, alongside other issues. He said if 
he had known he could VT the agreement, he would have done this as it would have saved 
him the hassle.
As Mr R remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr R has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
What I need to decide in this case is whether FCE provided Mr R with the correct options 
about ending his agreement. Ill also need to decide whether I think Mr R was told he only 
needed to make two further payments to end the agreement and hand back the car. If I think 
FCE didnt provide the correct information to Mr R or that it mis-led Mr R, Ill need to think 
about whats fair to put things right.
Mr Rs hire purchase agreement was due to end on 1 July 2020. The agreement confirms if 
Mr R wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement, he needed to pay £7,056 to 
keep the car. It also confirms Mr Rs rights if he wants to end the agreement early. It says:
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS. You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you 
should write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the 
return of goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is £9,644.30 
(nine thousand six hundred and forty four pounds and thirty pence). If you have already paid 
at least this amount plus any overdue instalments, and have taken reasonable care of the 
goods, you will not have to pay anymore.
When Mr R called FCE to ask about his options to end the agreement in January 2020, 
FCEs contact notes show that FCE told Mr R about his right to voluntary terminate the 
agreement, part exchange it or to sell it and repay the balance. In light of this, Im satisfied 
that FCE provided Mr R with his options to end the agreement early. So whilst I appreciate 
that Mr R says he would have taken the option to VT the agreement in January 2020, had he 
been made aware of this, Im satisfied FCE did make him aware of his right to VT, both when 
he took the agreement out initially and when he called it in January 2020.. 
Having said this, Mr R has said he was told by both the dealership and FCE hed only need 
to pay two further payments in early 2020 and then he could hand back the car. However, 
FCE dispute this. So Ive thought about what I think is most likely to have happened on a 
balance of probabilities.
In April 2020, Mr R cancelled his Direct Debit instruction. And in May 2020, Mr Rs account 
was in arrears. Mr R called FCE the same month and system notes show he told FCE he 
didnt make the arrears payment on purpose as he was disappointed with the service. He 
also said personal circumstances had contributed to his financial difficulties. He said he had 
contacted the dealership who told him it would purchase his car, but he refused to do this as 
he wanted a certain model in exchange. The notes show FCE told Mr R to contact the 
dealership once lockdown had lifted. And it told him to bring the account up to date so it 
could offer him an extension of up to 60 days. During the call, notes show Mr R said he 
would try to clear the arrears in full by the next month. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that FCE didnt tell Mr R he only needed to make 
two further payments and he could then hand back the car. I say this because Mr R 
contacted FCE in January 2020 and he was provided with the options to end the agreement.  
Following this, Mr R contacted FCE in May 2020, but he made no mention of being told he 
could hand back the car if he only made two payments. In late August 2020, Mr R told FCE he wanted to hand back the car. So FCE advised him to visit the dealership. Following this, 
Mr R called FCE in early September 2020 and FCE arranged for M to collect the car. The 
system notes show, it was only in late September 2020 that Mr R told FCE he wouldnt make 
further payments as he wasnt liable for them. 
In light of this, I dont think Mr Rs actions follow what he says he was told. Mr R hasnt 
provided any supporting information to confirm what he says he was told by FCE or the 
dealership. And if he had been told he only had to make two further payments and then he 
could hand back the car, I would have reasonably expected him to raise this soon after he 
says he was told this in early 2020. And so it follows I dont think FCE told Mr R he could 
hand back the car after making two further payments. 
I also appreciate Mr R has said he tried to arrange with M to collect the car and hes 
provided a written list of the dates he made calls to M and FCE. These calls correlate with 
the call records FCE has provided this service. I can see Mr R called M once in late 
September 2020. However since then, M attempted to call Mr R on around ten different 
occasions and system notes show it had emailed him too. So whilst I understand Mr R says 
the collection time provided to him by M wasnt convenient, I can see M proactively tried to 
arrange a collection time with Mr R, without success, before FCE made the decision to 
default the agreement and pass it to a third party. So I dont think it did anything wrong when 
it defaulted the agreement and passed the account to a third party.
Overall, Im satisfied that FCE provided Mr R with his options to end the agreement early in 
January 2020. And I dont think its likely on balance, that it told Mr R he could hand back the 
car after only making two payments. So it follows that I dont require FCE to do anything to 
put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman