DRN-3153194
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about poor service and delays caused by Inter Partner Assistance 
Limiteds failings following a claim to fix their boiler under their home emergency policy. 
I will refer to Mr M for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
Mr M says that his boiler stopped working in February 2021. He contacted Inter to make a 
claim under his policy. An engineer attended the next day and identified that replacement 
parts were needed. The company says these were ordered, but Mr M had to chase for 
updates as he received no further contact. 
Mr M says an engineer did not come to fit the replacement parts until over two weeks later. 
This didnt resolve the issue and more parts were ordered to complete the repair. Two days 
later an engineer attended to replace further parts. At this time damage was caused to the 
wall behind the boiler. Again, the boiler could not be repaired at this time. 
Further engineer visits took place, and more parts were ordered. At the end of February 
2021, an engineer was arranged to attend from the boiler manufacturer. He was able to get 
the boiler working. Unfortunately, it broke down again approximately six weeks later in April. 
It was a further two-weeks until the boiler was repaired. 
Inter acknowledged some failings in its handling of Mr Ms claim and offered £500 in 
compensation. It also paid him £150 in relation to the breakdown that occurred in April.
Our investigator decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. She felt that overall Inters handling of 
the claim could have been better. Because of the time taken to fix the boiler and the poor 
standard of service Mr M received, she recommended the company pay a further £400 to 
compensate him.   
Inter disagreed with this level of compensation and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M reported having no heating or hot water to Inter at the beginning of February 2021. 
The problem was not resolved until an engineer from the boiler manufacturer visited 26 
days later. This was a significant period to be without heating and hot water during the 
winter. I have looked at the correspondence and records to see whether Inters response to 
the claim was reasonable.   
The records show an engineer attended the day after the problem was reported. He 
identified replacement parts necessary to repair the boiler. The parts were ordered but a 
long delay occurred before they were received. The call records show contact was made 
by Mr M on a regular basis to understand when the parts were expected. He was told on 
multiple occasions that the parts were due in the next day, but this didnt happen. 
16 days after the claim an engineer attended to repair the boiler with the necessary parts. 
The boiler failed again shortly after the engineer left. Mr M called Inter to report this. Its 
records show a water pressure sensor was needed, which had been ordered. Further 
delays occurred and parts were installed that didnt resolve the problem. 
Eventually the boiler manufacturer was contacted, it sent an engineer who fixed the boiler. 
This happened 26 days after it was initially reported not working. 
The boiler failed again six weeks after it was thought to be fixed. The manufacturer was 
contacted to send another engineer. From the records the problem was with a pressure 
sensor, which had not been identified by Inters engineers. The boiler was out of action for 
approximately two weeks on this occasion. Inter paid Mr M £150 compensation in respect 
of this period, which he accepted. 
I can understand Mr Ms frustration at the time taken to fix his boiler. He felt it was 
necessary to make regular contact with Inter to try and find out what was going on. This is 
understandable given the delays and repeated failures to fix the problem, also the lack of 
contact made to him. I note damage was also caused by one of the engineers to the wall 
behind his boiler. 
Mr M told Inter that he has a young child, which was problematic because of the lack of hot 
water for bathing. He says none of the family were able to wash properly whilst this 
problem continued. In addition, he says his wife was vulnerable because of the corona 
virus and was shielding. He didnt think the engineers were considerate of this, as they 
didnt wear masks. 
Mr M asks for compensation of £1,000 for the trouble he has been caused. 
All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble attached 
to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much compensation 
to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its policy 
holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a claim 
of this type.
Mr Ms policy provided cover in the event of an emergency. In this instance it was expected 
to restore the hot water and heating system. This did not happen quickly, as would be 
expected. Delays obtaining parts account for a portion of this. But when parts were 
received the problem was still not fixed. I think it reasonable to conclude that Inter should 
have fixed the boiler much quicker than it did. It should have also communicated better 
with Mr M throughout. 
Inter paid Mr M £500 as an apology and to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
caused. It also paid for the cost of fan heaters to provide some heating whilst the problem 
was ongoing. This was in addition to the £150 paid in compensation for the second period 
the boiler broke down.   This has clearly been a stressful time for Mr M and his family. I can understand his concern 
that his wife was vulnerable and shielding during the pandemic. It must have been worrying 
to have engineers in the house on multiple occasions. I can also appreciate the problems 
this caused when caring for a child, especially during the winter months. I note Mr M also 
highlights the cost of electricity to power the temporary heaters.
In considering all of this, I dont think Inters handling of Mr Ms claim was fair. I think there 
is scope for a compensation payment to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience both 
he and his family experienced, because of the delays and poor communication. Inters 
handling of this claim should have been much better.
From the photographs there is damage to the plaster work behind the boiler. I have not 
seen a costing for repairs to the damaged wall, and I note Mr M said he would look to 
repair this himself. However, I accept that some damage was caused, and this should be 
reflected in the compensation payment. 
In total Inter has paid Mr M £650 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience he and 
his family experienced during both periods when his boiler wasnt working. In addition, Inter 
paid the cost of the fan heaters Mr M used. Given the trouble Mr M has been put to there is 
clear reason for compensation to be provided. I think a total payment for £750 is fair in the 
circumstances described. This means Inter should pay Mr M a further £100 to 
acknowledge his poor experience.  
I said I was intending to require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
pay Mr M £100, which is in addition to the £650 he has already received, in 
acknowledging the poor handling of his claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Inter responded to say it accepted my findings. 
Mr M responded to say he appreciated the time spent by this service on reviewing his 
complaint but was disappointed with the compensation payment. He says his electricity bill 
was not available at the time Inter closed his complaint, and that this is more than the 
additional amount awarded. He points to replacement parts for the boiler ordered in March 
2021, that delayed matters for over two weeks and that werent needed. He also says two 
young children (not one as indicated in my provisional decision) were in the house at this 
time who were not at school because of the lockdown situation.     
Mr M says the second £150 compensation payment from Inter related to an error and delay 
caused by allocating the repair to the wrong party. Not for the second breakdown of the 
boiler. He says Inter wrongly identifying the PCB (printed circuit board) as faulty, when the 
actual fault with a sensor could and should have been resolved during the April 2021 call 
out. My understanding is that Mr M doesnt think the failure to correctly identify the fault, and 
the impact this had, has been considered in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ms comments about electricity charges and that this wasnt considered as part of 
his complaint because he didnt have the bill. If he wishes Mr M can provide evidence of the extra costs, he incurred to Inter  it can then give consideration to these costs for the period 
he was without heating. 
My provisional decision says that Inter failed to carry out repairs effectively. I acknowledged 
the boiler should have been fixed far sooner than it was, delays occurred when ordering 
parts and these parts, when fitted, didnt solve the problem. I also acknowledged the boiler 
manufacturer became involved and highlighted the fault with the pressure sensor that wasnt 
identified by Inters engineers. All of this was factored into my decision when I considered a 
fair compensation award. 
I note Mr Ms comment that he has two young children in the house, as opposed to one. My 
provisional decision did indicate only one child was in the house. I said I could appreciate the 
difficulties he and his family experienced when caring for a child during the winter months 
without heating or hot water. Im sorry for this oversight. By no means did I intend to diminish 
the difficulties Mr M and his family experienced. I can fully appreciate the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. When I considered a suitable compensation payment, I thought 
about the overall impact this situation had on Mr M and his family. Although I acknowledge 
the point raised, I dont think this justifies an increase to the compensation payment.   
With respect to the second payment Inter provided for £150, the company confirms this was 
because of the fault having reoccurred. I note Mr Ms understanding is different. However, I 
dont think this makes a material difference to my decision. This is because when deciding 
on a compensation award I have already considered the full period the boiler was out of 
action, the poor communication and acknowledged that the fault should have been identified 
and fixed far sooner. Because of this, Im not persuaded that an increase to the 
compensation payment is needed, and my provisional decision will now become my final 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must:
pay Mr M £100, which is in addition to the £650 he has already received, in 
acknowledging the poor handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman