DRN-3637835
The complaint
Ms D complains that the advice given to her in 1998, by Lighthouse Advisory Services
Limited (Lighthouse) in relation to her Free-standing Additional Voluntary Contribution
(FSAVC) plan, was unsuitable.
In this complaint Ms D is represented by a third party, but for simplicity Ill refer to all actions
and correspondence as being completed by Ms D herself.
What happened
In early 1998 Ms D engaged Lighthouse as her independent financial adviser (IFA). She
already had an FSAVC plan in place, which had been started in 1997 on the advice of a
different IFA. The FSAVC was intended to supplement the retirement income from her
occupational pension scheme (OPS).
In March 1998, Lighthouse provided Ms D a report which described her current options in
relation to her additional retirement requirements. Her objective was recorded as wishing to
retire aged 60, with a pension equivalent to  of her final salary.
The report projected the monthly contributions and overall cost to achieve this through her
current FSAVC plan, with varying contribution levels and term length. It also documented the
required contributions and overall costs of the in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution
(AVC) and added years options from her OPS.
Ms D was recommended to make a maximum funding monthly contribution which equated
to a gross contribution of £150/month. Her fund selections within her FSAVC were described
by Lighthouse as in average to high risk range.
In September 1998 Ms D informed Lighthouse that she wished to reduce her monthly
outgoings as she had other higher priority savings requirements. Lighthouse recommended
she reduce the payments into the FSAVC to £100 gross, leaving her long-term life/illness
insurance policies in place. This reduction took effect from 1 November 1998.
In her annual review in March 1999 Ms D elected to increase her monthly FSAVC
contributions by 10%, but not to their previous levels. At some time in 2000, a new fact find
was completed by Lighthouse to review Ms Ds situation. Within this document Ms D was
recorded as having a monthly disposable income of £540, and her attitude to investment risk
(ATR) in relation to her pension planning was recorded as 3/4 out of 5. These ratings were
described as follows:
3  I will accept my capital may fluctuate up and down in order to obtain historically
greater returns than cash-fixed interest
4  I will accept a potentially greater degree of fluctuation than 3 (above) but want a
proportion of my investment to be geographically managed investing in international
equities.
Ms D made no further changes to her monthly contributions, until December 2003 when she
instructed Lighthouse that she wished to stop contributions all together for reasons of
affordability. Her plan became paid up.
In March 2020 Ms D, via her representative, complained to Lighthouse. She said the advice
to reduce her contributions in 1998 wasnt appropriate. She said that instead of being
advised to reduce her contributions, she should have been advised to stop them and to
purchase added years from her OPS instead.
But Lighthouse thought Ms Ds complaint had been made too late under the regulators
rules, so didnt consider it. Ms D complained to our service. Because Lighthouse thought the
complaint had been made too late, our investigator first considered whether our jurisdiction
rules meant the complaint had been referred to us in time. And having done so they thought
the complaint was one that our service could consider, and Lighthouse agreed.
With regards to the merits of the complaint, our investigator thought that Lighthouse hadnt
treated Ms D fairly when it advised her in September 1998 to reduce her monthly FSAVC
payments. He didnt think Ms D shouldve been advised to purchase added years but
thought Lighthouse shouldve advised her to stop her contributions, and instead commence
payments into her OPS AVC arrangement. This way she couldve benefitted from reduced
costs when compared to the FSAVC whilst retaining the flexibility to change her payment
levels if required. In summary, he thought:
Lighthouse should have clearly shown her the difference in charges between the 
inhouse AVC and the FSAVC, and had it done so, he thought Ms D wouldve most 
likely chosen the AVC option.
Lighthouse hadnt evidenced that Ms D had wanted to invest her monthly 
contributions into higher risk investments to provide potentially higher returns. He 
thought it was reasonable to conclude she wouldnt have been prepared to take a 
high level of risk.
Lighthouses recommendation to select the maximum funding route was 
unaffordable to Ms D.
He thought Lighthouse should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the
regulators FSAVC review guidance, and if this showed Ms D had suffered a loss, then it
should pay this to her.
Lighthouse agreed with his view that advice to purchase added years wouldnt have been
appropriate, but didnt agree that it shouldve advised to contribute to an AVC. In summary it
said:
Whilst the level of charges in the AVC and FSAVC were not explicitly compared in 
the reports, it considered that Ms D was aware of continued costs in relation to her 
FSAVC as she referred to them when she was considering suspending her 
contributions in 2003.
The cheapest method of funding the additional pension provision Ms D required was 
by the maximum funding method with top net returns that it advised. And this wasnt 
possible with the AVC, as the provider wouldnt carry out calculations for premiums in 
excess of £200 without Ms D revealing to her employer a planned early retirement 
date.
Our investigator acknowledged that the report issued to Ms D in March 1998 did compare
the overall cost of the FSAVC to those options provided by her employer, but it didnt
explicitly set out the difference in charges between the FSAVC and AVC over the term to herplanned retirement age of 60. And he didnt think it likely that Ms D wouldve known this as
shed not been given any comparative information.
He remained of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld because:
the maximum funding arrangement wasnt affordable for her, as evidenced by her 
decision to reduce her monthly contributions later that year.
Lighthouse hadnt demonstrated how Ms Ds risk profile was assessed and 
determined in September 1998 when the advice in question was considered.
Although her above average risk profile was recorded on review letters sent to her in 
1999 and 2000, and also on her annual statements, this didnt necessarily reflect her 
ATR when the advice was given.
the risk profile document within the fact find, completed in 2000, was undated and 
unclear.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me for a decision. 
On 11 July 2022I issued a provisional decision as I disagreed with the view held by the 
investigator. I didnt think Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. In my provisional decision I 
said:
 I currently agree with the investigator in that I dont think it wouldve been suitable for 
Lighthouse to advise Ms D to purchase added years in September 1998, and Ms D hasnt 
disagreed with this opinion either. But for completeness, I think it likely that Ms D wouldnt 
have taken this option because of the overall cost. And it is likely that she wouldve seen the 
benefit of the potential growth in the invested funds as outweighing the relatively risk-free 
benefits of added years.
But I think the advice it gave her in September 1998 to reduce her payments and remain in
the FSAVC wasnt unsuitable. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I need to point out that Lighthouse was an IFA. That meant it had to follow the rules
put in place by the regulator at the time, The Personal Investment Authority (PIA). These
rules said IFAs should:
Not make a recommendation unless it believed, having carried out reasonable care 
in forming its belief, that no transaction in any other such investment (of which it 
ought reasonably to be aware) would be likely to secure the objectives of the 
consumer more advantageously, and
Take reasonable care to include in any recommendation to a person, other than a 
professional investor, sufficient information to provide that person with an adequate 
and reasonable basis for deciding whether to accept the recommendation.
To comply with these rules, and to be able to actively make a recommendation which was in
Ms Ds best interests, Lighthouse needed to have found out how all of these issues applied
to the FSAVC and Ms Ds in-house options (added years and AVC). Lighthouse also
needed to consider anything else which may have been relevant to Ms Ds situation, such as
the sort of funds within the AVC which may have been available for investment. Lighthouse
were then required to explicitly compare what the in-house options and the FSAVC had to
offer.
But the PIA had gone further, and in May 1996 it issued Regulatory Update 20 (RU20),which spelt out the procedures it expected IFAs to follow in future sales of FSAVCs. Whilst I
acknowledge that there was no sales process involved in the advice in 1998, as Ms Ds
FSAVC policy already existed, I still consider it fair to expect Lighthouse to have followed the
general spirit of these rules when advising Ms D what she should do with her FSAVC. This is
both at the initial consultation in early 1998, and when she asked for advice about reducing
her outgoings in September 1998.
RU20 said that IFAs should establish what in-house alternatives to the FSAVC were
available, and discuss the specific differences between them when making a
recommendation. RU20 said the discussions should include:
The difference in charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC
The choice of investments
The availability of added years and the number of years that could be purchased
The degree of personal control and privacy
The age at which benefits could be taken
The degree of portability on changing jobs or becoming self-employed
It also mentioned the tax treatment of benefits, the possibility of employers matching or
topping up contributions, and the ability to provide additional life cover. It also said the
following regarding the lower charges under an in-house AVC arrangement:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs,
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the
client.
So, as Ive said, although there was no actual sale of an FSAVC, I think it is a reasonable
position to take to conclude that Lighthouse ought to have followed the spirit of the rules in
place at the time.
Ive firstly considered what happened in early 1998 when Ms D first engaged Lighthouse. A
document titled Detailed Needs Analysis, Contract & Company Selection Report was
produced, dated 4 March 1998. This began by indicating the projected shortfall in her OPS if
she wanted to achieve an annual pension equivalent to  of her final salary. It indicated she
would probably need to receive an additional £23,573 annually to achieve this.
It then went on to provide the estimated overall costs, and projected monthly payments
required to achieve this through Added years, the in-house AVC, and the FSAVC (with
three different funding options). Although I have no way of confirming how these figures
were calculated, I also have no reason to discredit them. So, on balance, I think it is a
reasonable position to take to accept them as being a useful indicator of the projected
benefits at the time of the advice. And this was probably what Ms D wouldve thought too.
Ive seen evidence of how Lighthouse compared the fund choices available in both the AVC
and FSAVC, and how these funds would be managed. It has also shown how many added
years would need to be purchased, and how much this was likely to cost.
Although Lighthouse has agreed it didnt explicitly compare the charges and fees between
the products, as required by RU20, I dont think that had they done this it would likely have
made a difference, as I dont think this was Ms Ds main consideration at the time. I thinkinvestment growth, not charges, was Ms Ds priority at the time. I think this because Ive
seen shed selected to take the maximum funding route which meant she would make the
highest monthly contribution possible to achieve the highest possible gains over the shortest
possible time. So I think it likely she was looking for maximum fund growth. And this is
supported by her choice of above average or high-risk funds. These, whilst carrying more
investment risk, also provided a greater chance of higher investment growth. And it is
important to also note that this type of fund, and the associated risk, doesnt appear to have
been available in the in-house AVC option.
So I think it likely that even if Lighthouse, in its report given to Ms D in March 1998, had
clearly shown that the overall charges associated with the AVC wouldve been less than the
FSAVC, and provided a clear comparison, Ms D would have probably stayed with the
FSAVC anyway. This is because it allowed her the potential of higher growth over a shorter
period, with fund choices which werent available from the AVC. And, contrary to what the
investigator thought, I cant see there is anything to suggest that the maximum funding
route wasnt affordable to Ms D in March 1998. I think that if it had been unaffordable, Ms D
wouldve most likely said so at the time and chosen the available cheaper monthly options.
And I dont think the change to her circumstances later in the year, when she needed to
reduce her outgoings, was necessarily predictable at that point.
Having concluded that I dont think Lighthouse did anything wrong in March 1998, I need to
consider what it did, or shouldve done, when Ms D asked for advice about reducing her
payments in September 1998.
Ms Ds personal circumstances changed around this time, and she found she had less
disposable income due to other financial priorities. She contacted Lighthouse to ask for
advice. Given the passage of time I dont have a recording of this call, or any
contemporaneous notes, but I do have some client notes recorded from the time. They read
as follows:
Client called. Discussed reducing outgoings since [redacted] next year [redacted] to
[redacted]. Decided to reduce pension by 50pm rather than protection contracts
(easy to catch up rather than risk illness in next year plus cost of protection would go
up). Can revert to maximum again. Client to send confirmation letter regarding
pension reduction.
This was followed by a recommendation letter to Ms D which read as follows:
Dear [Ms D]
YOUR FINANCIAL PLANNING
Following on from our conversation of today, this letter confirms your desire to reduce
your pension contributions by £50 per month (net of tax) rather than ceasing your
long-term illness/serious illness contracts. This is a sensible move due to the
following:-
1. After one year, your pension fund will only be behind by approximately £700 
which is far easier to catch up rather than taking the risk of suffering a long-
term/serious illness over the next year.
2. If you decided to stop your protection arrangements for one year and then 
recommence, the monthly cost of these would have increased by approximately 
£5 per month and over the long-term would be expensive.
So I need to decide whether this advice was suitable in that it matched her circumstances
and met her financial objective (achieving an annual pension equivalent to  of her finalsalary). And Im satisfied it did.
Given there had only been about nine months since the previous full review of her financial
objectives, I dont think it unreasonable that another wasnt completed at this point. But I can
see from the notes it is likely that Lighthouse obtained the information necessary, in the form
of a new income/expenditure record, to make a suitable recommendation. And Ive seen
nothing to indicate her ATR had changed.
From the notes it appears that the reduction in monthly contributions was intended to be only
temporary  one year is mentioned - and the specific event, for which the saving was
required was occurring within that year. And the life and illness policies, which were the
alternative cost reduction options, were discounted for what appear to be sound reasons. It
should also be noted that even with the reduced contribution level, Ms D was still
contributing monthly more than she wouldve been within the AVC arrangement, and the
projected returns would probably still have been better.
Im satisfied that the changes advised, which were implemented on 1 November 1998, were
not inappropriate to her circumstances, financial objectives and ATR.
So, even though I agree that Lighthouse didnt do everything required under RU20, Im
satisfied that the advice it gave to Ms D was appropriate to her circumstances at the time
and met her financial objective. And even if it had shown her a clear comparison of the AVC
and FSAVC charges, in the March 1998 advice, I think it more likely than not that Ms D
wouldve chosen the maximum funding route anyway due to the projected greater returns
over a shorter period, and the availability of higher-risk fund choices. And the September
1998 advice to reduce her monthly payment into the FSAVC was also appropriate.
I invited both parties to submit any additional information they wished me to consider before I 
came to my final decision. But neither Ms D nor Lighthouse responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered my provisional findings. As neither Ms D nor Lighthouse have made 
any further representations, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman