DRN-3990496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) kept 
charging them for their Flex Plus account during the pandemic.
They also feel discriminated against because they were still charged when there were 
different travel restrictions applicable to different parts of the UK.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Nationwide had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Charging account fees during the pandemic
Mr and Mrs H have said that Nationwide should not have kept on charging them for their fee-
paying Flex Plus account during the pandemic as they were unable to benefit from the 
features of the account.
Having considered this, I dont think Nationwide was being unreasonable by not providing Mr 
and Mrs H with the Flex Plus account without charge. I say this because the Flex Plus 
account does not operate like a typical insurance policy. Rather than offering to provide 
cover for 12 months like a typical insurance policy would, it provides various insurance 
benefits (and access to non-insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. 
Therefore, Mr and Mrs H were not locked into keeping it for a certain period of time and they 
were free to cancel it as soon as they felt it was no longer good value for money them. So I 
dont think Nationwide was being unreasonable by not offering to provide the account for 
free, until some future time when they might find it useful again.
And I think this is the case because, although Mr and Mrs H may not have been making 
much use of the benefits, other account holders may still have been relying on the benefits 
that the account provided  bearing in mind it provided benefits other than just travel 
insurance. And as the account came as a package, Mr and Mrs H were unable to choose 
what it came with. So it wouldve been up to Mr and Mrs H to decide whether the benefits 
provided by the account were worth paying for or not. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably 
and ultimately, I cant reasonably hold Nationwide responsible because Mr and Mrs H chose 
to keep paying for a Flex Plus account, rather than change to an account without a monthly 
fee. 
Discrimination
Mr and Mrs H have said that due to differences in travel restrictions within the different 
nations within the UK, Mr and Mrs H say that Nationwides decision to keep charging 
account holders for the Flex Plus account is discriminatory. 
As the adjudicator explained, it is beyond the remit of our service to determine whether 
Nationwide has breached the Equalities Act 2010. All our service can do is determine 
whether Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably, although we do have regard to the 
relevant laws, rules and good industry practice when considering complaints. And in the 
circumstances, Im unable to see how Nationwide is being unfair or unreasonable because 
Mr and Mrs H chose to keep paying for a package of benefits that included travel insurance, 
which they say they didnt need due to travel restrictions. 
As outlined above, the account provided features other than travel insurance. It was 
provided as a package, so account holders could not pick and choose what it came with. 
Therefore, it was up to individual account holders to decide whether the particular 
combination of benefits continued to meet their needs and provided value for money. And it 
could be cancelled at any time. 
I would also point out that although Mr and Mrs H may not have needed the travel insurance, 
other account holders - including those living in the same region of the UK as Mr and Mrs H - 
may well have been relying on the travel cover provided, especially the cancellation cover. 
And indeed, other account holders from the same region as Mr and Mrs H may well have 
been relying on the other benefits provided by the account as well.
So, I cant reasonably conclude, as Mr and Mrs H seem to suggest, that because they were 
unable to make use of the travel insurance included with the account, that Nationwide was 
being unfair or unreasonable because it kept charging the Flex Plus monthly account fee. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman