DRN-3272547
The complaint
Mr B complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) should not have 
accepted investments into his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) without carrying out 
the necessary checks. 
What happened
Westerby has been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and those law firms have made submissions on behalf of Westerby at various 
times. For simplicity, I have referred to Westerby throughout, whether the submissions came 
directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf. 
The SIPP and investment applications
Mr B held a personal pension scheme. Acting on the advice of a Richard Fletcher, Mr B 
switched the cash value of that pension into a SIPP with Westerby. 
Mr B signed an application for a Westerby SIPP on 5 March 2013. On the application form, 
the name of the financial advisor was given as Richard Fletcher and the name of the firm 
as Joseph Oliver with no address given. 
Westerby says it understood Mr Fletcher was, at the time of the application, an appointed 
representative of Joseph Oliver  Mediacao de Seguros LDA (Joseph Oliver LDA), a 
financial advisory firm based in Portugal. At the relevant time Joseph Oliver LDA passported 
into the UK under the Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD). This means that during those 
dates, Joseph Oliver LDA was an EEA authorised firm and permitted to carry out some 
regulated activities in the UK. 
An application form for an investment platform called E-Portfolio solutions was also signed 
by Mr B on the same day as the SIPP application form (i.e. 5 March 2013). This recorded the 
financial advisors name as Richard Fletcher and the financial advice firm as Joseph Oliver 
Marketing Limited. Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited (JOML) was a UK registered 
company, which was not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The investment application form was signed by Westerby, as trustees of Mr Bs SIPP, on 
14 March 2013. The application form did not contain any details of where Mr Bs money was 
to be invested. But statements later produced show it was invested in the Kijani Commodity 
Fund, which was at the time based in Mauritius (later based in the Cayman Islands), the 
Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF), which was based in Mauritius and the 
TCA Global Credit Fund  a fund which appears to have been based in the USA and has 
been the subject of fraud charges brought by the US authorities. 
Commission of 6% - £2,463.30 - was paid directly to Richard Fletcher by Westerby. 
Westerby says this was in accordance with an instruction from , who 
was the Managing Director of Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Abana Unipessoal Lda
On 17 May 2013 Joseph Oliver LDA wrote to Westerby, to say Mr Fletcher had terminated 
his agreement with it and, under that agreement, clients would return to Mr Fletcher. On the 
same day Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) - another financial advisory firm based in 
Portugal  wrote to Westerby to say all of Mr Fletchers clients were to be transferred to it. 
So Abana was the financial advice firm associated with Mr Bs SIPP after this date. 
Updates on the investments
On 11 November 2014 Westerby wrote to Mr B about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the FCA 
in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard assets. It explained that the funds might 
be higher risk than Mr B originally considered. Its letter also said the Mauritian Financial 
Services Commission had issued enforcement orders against both the Kijani and the 
SAMAIF funds. 
Westerby strongly urged Mr B to contact his regulated financial advisor, Abana, and 
asked him to confirm whether he wanted to continue to hold the investments or for Westerby 
to attempt to sell them. Westerby says it did not receive a response to this letter from Mr B.  
On 23 June 2015 Westerby again wrote to Mr B about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. This letter reminded Mr B that the funds were now considered non-standard 
assets. In relation to the Kijani fund the letter explained it had been announced the fund 
managers had taken the decision to liquidate all the funds assets and return client money 
within 30-60 days, but it was not clear where the announcement had come from and some 
investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not received any money. 
This letter also explained the advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Kenda 
Binns, not Mr Fletcher) had by that point become directly authorised with the FCA under a 
new firm  Abana FS Ltd. This was a UK based, FCA authorised firm. 
Again Westerby strongly urged Mr B to contact his regulated financial advisor, Abana 
(referring, I assume, to Abana FS). It did not however ask Mr B to confirm whether he 
wanted to continue to hold the investments on this occasion. 
A further letter about the funds from Westerby to Mr B followed on 17 July 2015. This 
explained that the administrator of the E-Portfolio platform had had its licence suspended by 
the Mauritius Financial Services Commission. It further explained that efforts were underway 
to trace where the Kijani fund had been invested and that both that fund and the SAMAIF 
fund were suspended. The letter said a further update would follow. At its conclusion the 
letter said:
In the meantime, we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent 
financial advisor who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware that 
as detailed in our accompanying letter, Abana FS Limited are not deemed to be suitably 
independent.
The final letter (that I have seen) sent to Mr B about the funds was sent by Westerby on 23 
December 2015. The letter of that date said:
we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset Micro 
Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund.
We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and with Asset Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. We 
understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed. 
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present, and will remain within the 
SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the liquid 
and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £18,582.33 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds: £18,354.49 (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter says the following about SAMAIF:
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, however it is not 
yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial Services Commission. 
EPS have included the value of this fund in the liquid Funds referred to above We have been 
advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value of the fund has been 
verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading again in February 2016 .
The letter noted:
A redemption request was submitted to EPS in respect of your SIPP portfolio on 14/04/2015 
and we will confirm to you once funds are received.
This refers to an instruction given by Mr B to Westerby for an annual withdrawal of 
£1,880.53, commencing on 14 April 2015. 
In submissions dated 3 December 2018 Westerby said: 
A redemption form had already been submitted to ePortfolio Solutions in April 2015, for a 
partial redemption. This was processed and £1,817.97 was received into the SIPP bank 
account on 19/02/2016. However [Mr B] did not request any additional redemptions following 
our letter of 23/12/2015.
And in submissions made to us on 27 January 2020 Westerby said Mr B:
did not make any contact with us until February 2016, and we did not receive a completed 
redemption form until November 2016. We forwarded the form to the investment provider, 
however by that time the remaining funds were also illiquid.
In its 6 June 2016 submissions to us on another complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently in 
communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable redemptions from the fund, 
however there are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy of their latest update is enclosed.
I have also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF, which suggests work to 
begin trading is still ongoing.
Mr Bs recollections of events
Mr B says he was originally introduced to Richard Fletcher by a friend after he had 
expressed interest in consolidating several small pensions into one. He says Mr Fletcher subsequently visited him at home and packaged his existing pensions into one with 
Standard Life. 
Mr B says Mr Fletcher contacted him again around a year later about reinvesting his pension 
into a more productive scheme with significantly higher interest. He recalls Mr Fletcher 
mentioning a return of 18%. He recalls Mr Fletcher visited him at home again, and discussed 
investing in the Kijani fund, and Mr Fletcher said he was also investing in this fund as it was 
producing very good returns. 
Mr B says he signed the transfer document on the understanding Mr Fletcher would fill in the 
necessary details. He says the Standard Life pension had been doing well so he trusted 
Mr Fletcher. He also says he was quite surprised when a few weeks later he received 
documentation from Westerby, as Mr Fletcher had not mentioned Westerby. Mr B says at no 
point did Mr Fletcher mention any risk involved in the investment. 
Our investigators view 
Our investigator concluded Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She said, in summary:
Westerby says it checked the Financial Services Register (the Register) and 
verified that Joseph Oliver LDA was authorised to operate within the United Kingdom 
under an EEA passport.
It says it also checked the register of Joseph Oliver LDAs home state regulator and 
this showed Joseph Oliver LDA was regulated by them and listed their UK passports 
permissions as life and non-life.
Joseph Oliver LDA did not have permission to advise on pensions in the UK at all. At 
the time, Westerby was a regulated SIPP provider. So its reasonable to expect it to 
be fully aware of the permission requirements for the conduct of pension business, 
and in particular, the requirements relating to overseas firms. Its reasonable to say it 
ought to have had the knowledge and expertise to understand what permissions 
were required by Joseph Oliver LDA.
Westerby could not reasonably have concluded, from Joseph Oliver LDAs entry on 
the Register that Joseph Oliver LDA had the top up permissions from the FCA which 
it needed to give personal pensions advice in the UK. 
If Westerby had made reasonable enquiries it would have concluded that Joseph 
Oliver LDA did not have the appropriate permissions to give pensions advice.
Overall, her view was that if Westerby had acted in accordance with its obligations  
Mr B would have stayed in his previous pension and would not have suffered the loss 
he has complained about.
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has 
been published on our website under DRN7770418. 
Although that decision relates to Abana, rather than Joseph Oliver LDA (or JOML), this 
complaint features the same key point  namely the permissions held and required by an 
incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on that case as it has on 
this case and other similar ones featuring either Abana or Joseph Oliver LDA. 
After the published decision was issued Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, as 
an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules and 
Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into account 
when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review each of the outstanding complaints involving 
Abana and Joseph Oliver LDA  including Mr Bs   and if it was not prepared to change its 
position after taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to 
explain why that was the case. 
In the provisional decision I recently issued I said Westerby had not yet reviewed Mr Bs 
complaint. However, I note, following Westerbys response, that it had completed a review of 
Mr Bs complaint and sent a letter detailing this to us on 13 October 2021. I confirm I have 
now seen this letter, and the associated attachments, and considered them in full. 
Having completed its review of Mr Bs complaint Westerby declined to change its position. It 
has made general submissions, following the published decision, which set out its reasons 
for disagreeing with that decision. 
Westerbys submissions 
I have considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this complaint. 
However I have only included a summary of its latest submissions here. 
In a letter setting out its general submissions Westerby said, in summary: 
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
However there has been no disclosure of the details of the contact at the FCA with 
whom we communicated with, records of such communications with the FCA such as 
correspondence, file notes or attendance notes, details of the FCA contacts role at 
the FCA, whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013 and had 
knowledge of it, and what the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is 
based upon. An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 is not proof of 
what was actually on the Register at the relevant time. We should now provide full 
disclosure of this information.  Not to do so is procedurally unfair. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the agreement (in this case with 
Joseph Oliver LDA, but with Abana in the published decision case) that Joseph 
Oliver LDA had the necessary permissions. It does not accept that it ought to have 
been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the statement in 
the agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which was not available on the 
Register would not have been provided to Westerby yet says that if it had contacted 
the FCA directly the FCA would have been able to confirm permissions. No 
information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. In response to this the FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and there was no requirement under the IMD to 
display more detailed activities. The FCA confirmed any further information not 
displayed on the Register would have been considered confidential information under 
section 348 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) which prohibits 
disclosure of this information. 
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. It is unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisers. 
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides:
Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one respondent in respect of 
connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the respondents must 
contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the Ombudsman considers 
appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment, as well as causation. 
Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana, the ombudsman decided in 
the published decision that Westerby should compensate for the full extent of the 
consumers financial losses. 
The complaints against Abana ought to have been decided first as the IFA involved 
in the transaction. At the very least, the complaints against Westerby and Abana 
ought to have been decided together. Instead we dealt with the complaint against 
Westerby first, which has led to the failure to address the issue of apportionment. 
We have found against Abana in a number of complaints where a different SIPP 
operator was used and ordered Abana to pay redress yet have not pursued, or 
invited the complainants to pursue, the SIPP operator.
I have also considered the outcome of Westerbys review of Mr Bs complaint, following 
which it made some further points. I have considered all of these. I have summarised the key 
ones below, with the exception of those which are made again in Westerbys response to my 
provisional decision (which I summarise in the section below):  
It is accepted that a "permissions" page existed on the Register at the relevant time, 
however it is not accepted that this contained any useful information relating to 
Joseph Oliver LDA.
It does not hold a copy of the "permissions" page for Joseph Oliver LDA. However, it 
has been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms from 
the relevant time period. In every case the permission page simply shows "No 
matches found". It has no reason to expect that Joseph Oliver LDA's permissions 
page would not have shown the same, and it is likely that copies of this page were 
not retained as there was no useful information.
The "Basic Details" page of Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry included a field 
labelled "Undertakes Insurance Mediation". It is beyond dispute that the firm was able to carry out this activity, but the field was left blank. For UK firms it was always 
completed. So it was not unreasonable to conclude that the Register simply did not 
record Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions.
The Register is known to have historically had significant errors, and the FCA itself 
recognises that there can be errors on the Register. The Legal Information section of 
the Register in 2012 and 2013 stated that:
We try to ensure that the information on this site is correct, but we do not give any express 
or implied warranty as to its accuracy. We do not accept any liability for error or omission.
All of Abana's clients (including those who had originally been advised by Joseph 
Oliver LDA, and later novated to Abana) had two opportunities to mitigate losses:
It wrote to all clients who held investments in the Kijani fund and the SAMAIF fund in 
November 2014. This letter drew the clients' attention to regulatory enforcement 
actions against the funds.
It wrote to all such clients again in December 2015 to inform them that there was an 
opportunity to redeem approximately half of their funds.
It remains its position that the clients had a responsibility (under the general principle 
that consumers should take responsibility for their own decisions) to take appropriate 
action to safeguard their own funds.
Mr B did not respond to its November 2014 letter. There is therefore no evidence    
Mr B sought advice or took any other action. So the only reasonable conclusion is  
Mr B chose not to take any action. It cannot be held responsible for any losses 
flowing from this. 
Mr B submitted a redemption request in April 2015 for a partial redemption. These 
funds were received in February 2016. However, Mr B did not make any further 
efforts to recover funds; which is surprising as he had been in contact with it in 2015 
to express concern about the funds. 
Irrespective of any advice from Abana to retain the funds it was ultimately Mr Bs 
decision as to whether follow that advice. He elected to retain funds that had been 
highlighted as high risk and under enforcement actions, and the principle that he 
should take responsibility for his decisions should be applied. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I concluded Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
I initially made the point that, in this case, it was not actually clear which business Westerby 
was accepting business from  Joseph Oliver LDA or JOML. The SIPP application simply 
says Joseph Oliver is the advising business  which could refer to either Joseph Oliver 
LDA or JOML - and the investment application says JOML is the advising business. So I had 
considered both possibilities  starting with Joseph Oliver LDA.
In relation to Joseph Oliver LDA I said I was satisfied that:
Westerby ought to have identified that Joseph Oliver LDA needed top up 
permissions from the FCA to advise on personal pensions in the UK and it should 
have taken all steps available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the required FCA permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Joseph Oliver LDA did 
not have the permissions it required to give personal pensions advice in the UK, or 
alternatively that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver LDA had the 
required permissions. 
In either case, it was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to accept business from 
Joseph Oliver LDA. 
In relation to JOML, I said if the advisor was JOML it was clearly engaged in regulated 
activities. And so it was breaching the General Prohibition, which prohibits unauthorised 
business from carrying out regulated activities. So it was fair and reasonable to say 
Westerby should have refused to accept either the SIPP or investment application from 
JOML if it were the introducer of the business, rather than Joseph Oliver LDA. 
I also concluded it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that 
none of the points Westerby had raised were factors which mitigated its decision to accept 
Mr Bs application to open a SIPP in the first place. And I concluded it was fair and 
reasonable to hold Westerby to account for its failure to decline Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA, and for it to be accountable for the financial loss to Mr B that flowed from 
this failure. 
As I revisit (and, where appropriate, repeat) my provisional findings below I will not include 
any more than this brief summary here. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Bs response
I say Westerby should deduct 20% from the redress sum if paid into a pension plan 
to account for income tax relief. However tax relief is only granted on pension 
contributions but not on pension transfers. So there is no income tax relief or relief at 
source applicable in this case.
In December 2017 he chose to take early retirement. The plan being to use his 
various small pensions to pay off his mortgage and pay monthly bills and take a part 
time job until his Westerby and state pensions became payable. Unfortunately he 
became ill and was unable to work part time, and was forced to take an equity 
release. Had his Westerby pension been available he would not have had to take the 
equity release, or would have been able to take a smaller sum. 
He is due from some of his pensions an amount of money known as COPE 
(contracted out pension equivalent). One of the pensions Mr Fletcher consolidated 
into the pension that was subsequently transferred to Westerby was a pension which 
had this benefit associated with it. So when he claimed his pension from Westerby it 
would have been increased by the COPE amount in addition to the direct 
contributions he paid. This is something he would like to be taken into consideration 
when determining the final amount of compensation.
Westerbys response 
Westerby did not accept my provisional decision. I have considered Westerbys response in 
its entirety, however I have only summarised here the points which I consider to be key:It maintains it should be provided with the information it has requested relating to our 
request for information about the Register made to the FCA. It also considers I 
should clarify my position on this. 
It does not agree that Joseph Oliver LDA not holding the relevant top up permissions 
would be a matter of public record  the FCA was only able to confirm what was on 
the Register, not what was missing from it. 
It maintains it was reasonable for it to rely on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it. It is 
illogical to say it should have had reason to question what it was told. 
JOML was a branch of an authorised firm (it provided a link to a page on Joseph 
Oliver LDAs website which it says is evidence of this).The identity verification 
document was signed by Mr Fletcher and quoted a Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) reference number, so the reasonable conclusion was Mr Fletcher was acting 
from an authorised firm when carrying out the regulated activity of arranging the 
SIPP. Also, the decision in Adams v Options confirmed that whilst establishing a 
SIPP is a regulated activity (so needs to be done via an authorised firm) advice on 
the underlying assets is not. So JOML providing advice is not an anomalous feature. 
It carried out extensive and thorough due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA, which my 
decision seeks to downplay. No further action taken or not taken by it would have 
changed the outcome of Mr Bs investments into a SIPP, whether provided by it or 
another provider. 
It acted in accordance with the regulatory publications set out in my provisional 
decision. 
An attempt has been made to distinguish Mr Bs complaint from the decision in 
Adams. However, I have made a material error of law. In Adams HHJ Dight stated 
that the scope of the best interests duty at COBS 2.1.1R was to be determined by 
the relevant factual context and, in particular, the parties defined roles and 
functions in the transaction as set out by the terms of their agreement. He therefore 
concluded that the duty argued for on Mr Adams behalf did not arise because the 
defendants role was limited to execution-only. It is unclear how Joseph Oliver LDAs 
contractually defined role is said to impact upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby 
under COBS 2.1.1R. It is wrong in principle for me to conclude that the contractual 
responsibilities of an unrelated third-party could somehow be used to define those 
owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. 
s27 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) is designed to shift the risks of 
accepting business from unauthorised parties onto providers. However, s20 FSMA 
does the exact opposite  it explicitly shields authorised parties from the risks of 
accepting business from authorised parties acting outside their permissions (such as 
Joseph Oliver LDA). 
I have failed to assess apportionment. It notes I dealt with apportionment in another 
complaint where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its 
permissions. The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and 
the advisor on a 50/50 basis. It is not clear why the issue of apportionment has not 
been dealt with in this complaint. 
Its investigations into the financial health of Joseph Oliver LDA indicate there to be 
very low prospects of recovery from Joseph Oliver LDA. Any indemnity from Joseph 
Oliver LDA and/or assignment of rights to any action against it from Mr B is effectively worthless. 
The complaint against Joseph Oliver LDA ought to have been decided first, as it was 
the financial advisor involved in the transaction. At the very least, the complaints 
against it and Joseph Oliver LDA ought to have been decided together. 
We have upheld complaints against Abana where there was another SIPP operator 
involved but not pursued or invited the complainants to pursue complaints against the 
SIPP operator concerned regarding the due diligence it carried out on Abana. 
There have been discussions with the FCA about compensation being sought for 
investors who lost money as a result of dealing with Abana  this emphasises its 
position that Joseph Oliver LDA should not escape liability.  I should consider the true 
gravity of the situation against Joseph Oliver LDA.  
If it had rejected Mr Bs application, Joseph Oliver LDA would simply have re-applied 
on behalf of Mr B to another SIPP operator, which Joseph Oliver LDA was using, and 
that SIPP operator would have accepted the application. 
It was clear that Mr B, despite Westerbys correspondence, was content with Mr 
Fletchers advice (particularly given the performance of his previous pension on 
advice from Mr Fletcher). If Mr B had contacted Westerby about their involvement at 
the outset and to have raised any concerns he may have had, this may have also put 
Westerby on notice of potential issues with Joseph Oliver LDA/Richard Fletcher and 
their business introductions, which may have led in turn to them refusing Mr Bs SIPP 
(and to cease accepting business from them).
The action taken by Westerby in November 2014 was in line with the FCA Principles. 
Westerby was acting in the best interests of the investors in keeping an eye on the 
investments and flagging issues with them. 
Following Westerbys letter in November 2014, raising concerns with the funds, any 
investor, unsophisticated or otherwise, would have sought independent financial 
advice, or at the very least made some reasonable lines of enquiries, regardless of 
whether it was suggested to him or not.
The provisional decision provides that Westerby ought to have suggested that Mr B 
seek independent advice from a regulated advisor as a matter of urgency. There is 
no evidence that Mr B would have done so even if the suggestion had been made. 
Even if it had not referred Mr B back to Abana in November 2014 Mr B would have 
reverted back to Mr Fletcher regardless. And Mr Fletcher would have said that 
Westerby (and apparently others) were scaremongering, which is what it 
understands Mr Fletcher told other investors.
In finding that it was not reasonable for Mr B to take some action after Westerbys 
November 2014 letter, I am effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for 
any subsequent losses irrespective of the duty on Mr B to mitigate his losses, and 
whether or not he complied with such duty. 
However, in the complaint which was the subject of the published final decision, the 
complainant was able to redeem his funds in May 2016. So it seems likely that Mr B 
could have mitigated his losses with a timely redemption request. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
As a preliminary point I note Westerby has asked me to answer specific questions and/or 
respond to specific points. But the purpose of this decision is to set out my findings on what 
is fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a 
point by point response to every submission made by the parties to the complaint.  And so I 
have focussed on the points I believe to be key to my decision. 
I have first reconsidered what the relevant considerations are in this case. Having done so, I 
remain of the view that these are as set out in my provisional decision. So I have largely 
repeated below what I said in my provisional decision, whilst taking account of the relevant 
points Westerby has made in its response to my provisional decision. 
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach 
a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to 
the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I do not say this means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I 
have taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case.I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in the High Court judgement HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
Westerby, too, has noted this in its response to my provisional decision. And it says I have 
made a material error by finding Joseph Oliver LDAs contractually defined role impacts 
upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. 
In my provisional decision I noted that there are significant differences between the breaches 
of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Bs complaint.  I remain of that 
view. The breaches alleged by Mr Adams were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of 
Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was not asked to consider the 
question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment 
into its SIPP. 
I also noted the facts of the case were different, and that I needed to construe the duties 
Westerby owed to Mr B under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Bs case. I 
remain of that view. 
As an example of the factual differences between this complaint and Adams v Options SIPP 
I highlighted in my provisional decision that in Adams HHJ Dight accepted that the 
transaction with Options SIPP proceeded without any advice from the business introducing 
the SIPP application. And, in contrast to that, the transaction between Mr B and Westerby 
proceeded on the footing that Mr B was being advised by an authorised advisor. To be clear,  
I made  and make - this point only to illustrate there are factual differences between this 
complaint and Adams v Options SIPP. 
To confirm, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Bs case, including Westerbys role in the 
transaction.  
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that Westerby was under any obligation to 
advise Mr B on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which did not have 
the required permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same 
firm, is not the same thing as advising Mr B on the merits of investing and/or transferring to 
the SIPP. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to 
be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Bs case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their advisor, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their advisor, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently 
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 thematic review report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA. So, it clearly 
thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports), post-date the events that took place in 
relation to Mr Bs complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed 
throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles. 
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In its submissions to us Westerby says (referring to the Court of Appeal decision in Adams) 
that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift the risks of accepting business from unauthorised 
parties onto providers but s20 FSMA does the opposite  it shields authorised parties from 
the risks of accepting business from authorised parties acting outside their permissions 
(such as Joseph Oliver LDA). It says the FCA guidance mentioned in my provisional 
decision appears to directly contradict the intention of legislation. 
s20 says that acting outside the permission given by the FCA is contravention of the 
requirements imposed by the FCA, but that: 
(a)does not, except as provided by section 23(1A), make a person guilty of an offence,
(b)does not, except as provided by section 26A, make any transaction void or 
unenforceable, and(c)does not, except as provided by subsection (3), give rise to any right of action for breach 
of statutory duty
However, I am not making a finding here on whether Mr Bs application is void or 
unenforceable and it is not my role to determine whether an offence has taken place or if 
there is something which gives rise to a right to take legal action. I am making a decision on 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons I have 
set out I am satisfied the regulatory publications are a relevant consideration to that decision. 
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Bs SIPP 
application from Joseph Oliver LDA, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations to act 
with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing. 
So taking account of the factual context of this case it is my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R) it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Joseph Oliver LDA had the required 
permissions to give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in 
the UK before accepting Mr Bs business from it. 
Westerby says it did carry out due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA before accepting 
business from it. And I accept that it did undertake some checks. However, the question I 
need to consider in this complaint is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its 
regulatory obligations, identified that Joseph Oliver LDA did not in fact have the top up 
permissions from the FCA it required to be giving advice on and arranging personal 
pensions in the UK, and whether Westerby should therefore not have accepted Mr Bs 
application from it. 
At the outset I again note that, in this case, it is not actually clear which business Westerby 
was accepting business from  Joseph Oliver LDA or JOML. The SIPP application simply 
says Joseph Oliver is the advising business  which could refer to either Joseph Oliver 
LDA or JOML - and the investment application says JOML is the advising business. 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says JOML was a branch of an 
authorised firm. I assume it means JOML was a branch of Joseph Oliver LDA. In support of 
this, it has provided a link to the contact us page of the website josepholivermsl.com. That 
page includes the following: 
Registered Addresses
Joseph Oliver Marketing Ltd
65 London Road, St Albans, Herts, AL1 1LJ, United KingdomCompany number: 4844574
Joseph Oliver Mediaao de Seguros Lda,
Galerias Navegador, 75, Av. 25 de Abril, 1011-C 2750-515 Cascais
Portugal Company number: 509011411
In my view this is not sufficient evidence to show JOML is a branch of Joseph Oliver LDA. It 
shows JOML as a registered address, and that information is on Joseph Oliver LDAs 
website. But it also confirms JOML is a separate entity from Joseph Oliver LDA, by referring 
to JOMLs UK Companies House entry - suggesting JOML might be a subsidiary of Joseph 
Oliver LDA, but not a branch. 
So I have again considered both possibilities i.e. that the introducing advisor was JOML or 
Joseph Oliver LDA  and I have again started with Joseph Oliver LDA. 
If the advisor was Joseph Oliver LDA? 
Having reconsidered my provisional findings on this point I remain of the view set out in my 
provisional decision. So I have largely repeated below what I said in my provisional decision, 
whilst taking account of the relevant points Westerby has made in its response to my 
provisional decision. 
The regulatory position 
Joseph Oliver LDA is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by 
Autoridade de Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (the ASF). 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. Insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out other 
work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding such 
contracts, or assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, in particular 
in the event of a claim.
4. Reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out other 
work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of concluding such 
contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, in 
particular in the event of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation
Directive for Long-term insurance business it is stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection businessfrom 
January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).Unlike general insurance and pure 
protection policies, the sale of life and pensions policies is already regulated. Life and 
pensions intermediaries must be authorised by us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Bs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust 
managers or deposit takers (including free-standing voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It did not 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Bs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 
Activities 
2 Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of 
a claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments are not covered by the Insurance Mediation 
Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Bs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top up permission under 
Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top up permissions from the FCA to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top up permissions could be found in the FCA Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G stated:
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G to SUP 
13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part IV 
permission from the FSA to do so (see the FSA website "How do I get 
authorised": http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/how/index.shtml). This might arise if the 
activity itself is outside the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is 
included in the scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home 
State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 4 or 5 of 
the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part IV permission is referred to in 
the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation was defined as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance intermediary, 
registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by its Home State 
regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FSA/FCA Handbook (which I set out above) was readily 
available in 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question did not fall under IMD passporting  they 
required FCA permission for Joseph Oliver LDA to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation I have referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Joseph Oliver LDA, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should 
therefore have known - or have checked and discovered - that a business based in Portugal 
that was EEA authorised needed to have top up permissions to give advice and make 
arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top up permissions had to 
be granted by the the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver LDA required the relevant top up 
permissions from the FSA/FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was 
undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissionsAgain, I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional decision on this point, so I 
have largely repeated my provisional findings below, taking account of any relevant points 
Westerby has made in its response to my provisional decision. 
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA and 
it could not and should not reasonably have concluded that Joseph Oliver LDA did not have 
the required top up permissions. I have carefully reconsidered all of Westerbys submissions 
on this point. 
The Register
I am satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting 
business from it. I therefore consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have 
checked the Register entry for Joseph Oliver LDA in the circumstances. And, to be clear, I 
think it fair and reasonable to say that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on 
Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry should have included a review of all the relevant 
information available.  
I have carefully considered the format of the Register in or around 2013 when Mr Bs 
application was submitted by Joseph Oliver LDA. The third-party report on the Register 
provided by Westerby during the investigation of the complaint which was the subject of the 
published decision is helpful on the question of the format of the Register at the time of Mr 
Bs SIPP application. The report includes the following screenshot of the archived Register 
for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):Each of the red titles at the top of the entry (i.e. Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, etc) is a hyperlink to another page of the entry on the Register. I am satisfied the 
entry for Joseph Oliver LDA would have followed the same format. So, this screenshot 
shows that Joseph Oliver LDAs 2013 entry on the Register would have included both 
Permission and Passports pages (amongst other pages). It is therefore reasonable to 
conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register in or around the time   
Mr Bs SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2013 included pages which provided 
information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a firms permissions. 
And I note Westerby accepts Joseph Oliver LDAs entry would have included a permissions 
page at the relevant time. 
Westerbys position, in short, is that the permissions page was blank and the register entry 
could not therefore be used to check a firms permissions. 
The report provided by Westerby on the complaint which was the subject of the published 
decision, helpfully, provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms which 
were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Bs SIPP application or earlier. The below 
example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Joseph Oliver LDA, was 
an incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that it 
showed no matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for EEA 
firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded is 
that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).  I note Westerby 
accepts that the entry for Joseph Oliver LDA likely showed no matches found in the 
permission page of the Register entry at the relevant time. 
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows no matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
All of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Bs application was 
submitted to Westerby, the format of the Register did contain a page labelled Permission 
and this page is where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, where a 
firm did not have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission page on 
their Register entry would state no matches found  (as there were no permissions to 
display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response to our query, FCA confirmed that top up permissions do appear on 
the Register under the Permission page, and that the FCA understands the same 
information was available on the Register in 2013.  
I note Westerby has said more information should be provided about this. In is response to 
my provisional decision it has reiterated this request. I have not been persuaded to depart 
from my provisional decision on this point. 
Westerby has been provided with FCAs response to our question. That is all I have been 
privy to and it is sufficient to allow Westerby to consider and make submissions on this point 
 something which it has done, at length. I am therefore satisfied I can fairly determine this 
complaint now and Westerby does not need to be provided with further information on this 
point. 
I should also make the point that my decision on this complaint would be the same even if I 
were to disregard the information received from the FCA  as the FCAs response to our 
question simply confirms what is shown by the available evidence in this case. 
To summarise my conclusions so far, I remain satisfied:
That in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before 
accepting business from it. And it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have 
checked the  totality of Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry in the circumstances.
The format of the Register in 2013 did include a Permission page and it follows that 
the entry for Joseph Oliver LDA on the Register at the time of Mr Bs application 
would have included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
If Westerby did check the Permission page for Joseph Oliver LDA at the relevant time, it 
appears to have failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, I do not have a 
record of the Permission page for Joseph Oliver LDA at the relevant time. So we have no 
evidence of what specific information was available on this page for Joseph Oliver LDA at 
the relevant time. However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, I am satisfied that 
there would have been a permission page available on Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry. 
And, if this page had erroneously failed to contain any information on whether or not Joseph 
Oliver LDA held the relevant permissions, (i.e. it had been left entirely blank), Westerby 
ought to have taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. 
To be clear, I do not accept Westerbys submission that information about a firms 
permissions was simply not available for an online user in 2013. 
Westerby has, in previous submissions, referred to reports from the Complaints 
Commissioner both of which highlighted errors and/or weaknesses of the Register. In its 
latest submissions it says the Register is known to have historically had significant errors, 
and the FCA itself recognises that there can be errors on the Register  it refers to a 
disclaimer shown on the Register which says the FCA provided no warranty as to its 
accuracy. I have considered the submissions Westerby has made on this point. 
Whilst I appreciate there have been criticisms of the Register, and it may on occasion have 
contained errors, I am satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver 
LDA needed permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for 
personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA, 
Westerby needed to confirm that Joseph Oliver LDA held the required permissions. And, for 
the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied that Joseph Oliver LDAs entry on the 
Register at the relevant time would have included a page with information on its permissions. 
If this page had not set out any information (it had erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, should not have accepted Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct position on the 
firms permissions.    
On this point Westerby says that the FCA will not (and nor would it have at the relevant time) 
confirm details about a firm that are not available on the public register. It says the published decision concedes that information which was not available on the Register would not have 
been provided to Westerby. 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says it does not agree that Joseph 
Oliver LDA not holding the relevant top up permissions would be a matter of public record  
as the FCA was only able to confirm what was on the Register, not what was missing from it. 
However, I remain satisfied that whether a firm holds permissions with the FCA is a matter of 
public record. 
I accept FCA will not (and would not) confirm details about a firm that are not available on 
the public register. However, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that top up 
permissions (or the absence of such permissions) are something which are recorded on the 
FCAs public register, and that this was also the case in 2013 when Westerby accepted Mr 
Bs application from Joseph Oliver LDA. So, although we do not have evidence of exactly 
what did appear on Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page in 2013, if it had erroneously 
been left blank I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude the FCA would have been able to 
confirm the position that Joseph Oliver LDA did not  in fact  have the required 
permissions, as this was information that ought to have been publicly available, on the 
Register. So, I remain unpersuaded by Westerbys submissions on this point and I am 
satisfied contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to it to verify Joseph 
Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it.     
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly to confirm Joseph Oliver 
LDAs permissions because the Register did not contain the relevant details, I do not think 
the restriction it refers to on what the FCA could confirm would have prevented it getting the 
information it needed. Joseph Oliver LDA did not have any top up permissions. That was a 
matter of public record. So, the FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby. 
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Joseph Oliver LDAs entry on the Register I still 
do not think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  or in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations - for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. Westerby ought to have independently checked 
and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it.  If there 
was no information available or accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the 
permissions position of Joseph Oliver LDA, then Westerby ought to have either found 
another way to verify Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions, or it ought to have declined to 
accept any applications from Joseph Oliver LDA until such a time as it could verify the 
correct position on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions. 
Furthermore, if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions at all  a position I think is very unlikely given the available evidence - I think it is 
fair and reasonable to say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. In my 
opinion, it was not reasonable, and not in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA if the position was not clear. 
So, to summarise, I remain satisfied:
It was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Joseph Oliver LDA if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions 
Joseph Oliver LDA held. 
In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Joseph Oliver LDA held any top up permissions. And, as I am satisfied this would 
have been a matter of public record, I am satisfied the FCA would have been able to confirm whether or not Joseph Oliver LDA held any permissions. 
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions, Westerby should simply have declined to accept business from Joseph 
Oliver LDA. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it? 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby maintains it was reasonable for it to rely 
on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it. I have carefully reconsidered this point, but have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. So, again, I have largely repeated my 
provisional findings  having taken into account the relevant points Westerby has made in its 
response to my provisional decision. 
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Joseph Oliver LDA (the Agreement) 
and, in signing the Agreement, Joseph Oliver LDA confirmed it held the permissions it 
required. 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has referred to FCAs thematic review TR16/1, and to 
Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on 
factual information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence 
process (TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are 
required to make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it 
to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information 
provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says:
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Joseph Oliver LDA, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been 
aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the 
information. 
In the Agreement Joseph Oliver LDA warranted that it had the required permissions to 
introduce SIPPs business. However, the Agreement appears to be a generic document and 
not specific to Joseph Oliver LDA. It does not refer to, nor require either party to confirm or 
warrant, the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process. 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial Services 
Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying investments where 
appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, authorities, licences and skills 
necessary for it to carry out its activities under this contract and will in all aspects comply 
with all Applicable Laws. In my view, this does not amount to a clear statement that Joseph Oliver LDA had the 
required top up permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that 
Westerby would be entitled to rely on. The activity of advising on rights under personal 
pension schemes is not mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of 
the SIPP which is an ambiguous term. And the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised 
is generic and does not refer specifically to top up FCA permissions being required and 
Joseph Oliver LDA warranting that it has top up permissions to conduct personal pensions 
business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement I am not satisfied on the evidence 
provided that Westerby did establish what top up permissions Joseph Oliver LDA required to 
be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Joseph Oliver LDA that it held those permissions. I am also not 
satisfied, for the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in 
seeking to rely on the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Joseph Oliver LDA warranted 
it had the required top up permissions. 
In any event, it is my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Joseph Oliver LDA had the required top up permissions. If Westerby had carried out 
independent checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions as required by its regulatory 
obligations, it ought to have been privy to information which did not reconcile with what 
Joseph Oliver LDA had told it about its permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I think it is 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby did not do enough in order to establish 
whether or not Joseph Oliver LDA did have the permissions it required.   
So, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I do not think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the 
Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it, 
was reasonable for Westerby to rely on it generally. I note Westerby has referred, in 
previous submissions, to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the 
FCA Handbook, and I have considered this question with those details in mind. However, I 
am not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to rely 
on the meetings and Agreement, for much the same reasons as I have given above in 
relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2).  
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise clients are 
authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I do not think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. It has 
told us it checked the Register. It has also told us its procedure was to check the Register 
every time a SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time advisor fees are 
paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the 
FSAs 2009 thematic review report. That is a view I share. So Westerby should not have  and did not  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as 
mentioned above, for all the reasons I have given, I think Westerbys check of the Register 
ought to have led to the conclusion that Joseph Oliver LDA did not have the required top up 
permissions (i.e. if the information on Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page had been 
correctly recorded), or in the alternative, that the Register did not record the information on 
Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page in order for Westerby to confirm the position one way 
or the other (for example, if the permission page had erroneously been left blank). This 
means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which did not 
reconcile with what Joseph Oliver LDA had told it about its permissions in the meetings and 
the Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries 
to independently check Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions, and by failing to do so, it did not 
meet the requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
If the advisor was instead JOML? 
As noted at the outset, it is not actually clear which business Westerby accepted the 
application from here  Joseph Oliver LDA or JOML. As set out above, on the SIPP 
application form the name of the firm was simply given as Joseph Oliver and the E-Portfolio 
solutions application recorded the financial advice firm as Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited. 
I remain satisfied that, if the advisor was JOML, it was engaged in regulated activities. And 
so it was breaching the General Prohibition, which prohibits unauthorised business from 
carrying out regulated activities. This is a fundament of financial services regulation in the 
UK and, as such, I think it fair and reasonable for Westerby to have been aware of it. And I 
therefore think it is fair and reasonable to say Westerby should have refused to accept either 
the SIPP or investment application from JOML 
However, I have again only briefly covered this point as there is evidence to show Mr 
Fletcher was representing Joseph Oliver LDA at the time and Westerby says the provider of 
the E-Portfolio platform has confirmed its relationship was with Joseph Oliver LDA, not 
JOML. So I think the likely outcome, had Westerby either assumed the application(s) were 
advised on by JOML and rejected it/them on that basis, or have queried on the basis the 
application(s) had to be advised on by an authorised business, would have been that the 
application(s) was/were then submitted through Joseph Oliver LDA. However, as I set out in 
the next section, I think the involvement of JOML should reasonably have been viewed as an 
anomalous feature. 
Anomalous features 
I remain of the view Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. 
Mr B was taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was 
to transfer from a conventional pension scheme with a large life assurance business into a 
SIPP, and then to send the majority of the money transferred into the SIPP to investments 
based in Mauritius and/or the Cayman Islands. The investments involved were unusual, and 
specialised. And the chances of them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a 
retail investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to 
have viewed the application from Mr B as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. 
And it should have been aware that the role of the advisor was likely to be a very important 
one in the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried 
out on Joseph Oliver LDA to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be 
giving advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
I do not expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr B 
 and I accept it could not do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles (and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr B fairly and act in his best interests. 
Another feature of concern in this case is that the investment application  which Westerby 
signed - does not specify what investments are to be made on the E-Portfolio platform. And, 
as noted above, that application refers to an unauthorised business - JOML. I note Westerby 
expressed the view in its response to my provisional decision that JOML was a branch of 
Joseph Oliver LDA but, as mentioned, I am not satisfied that was the case. 
I think these should reasonably have been viewed by Westerby as further risks of consumer 
detriment. And are therefore further reasons why it ought to have taken particular care in its 
due diligence, to treat Mr B fairly and act in his best interests.
In any event, regardless of the points I have made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, I am of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Joseph 
Oliver LDAs permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above 
point only to highlight the importance of carrying out this check. 
In conclusion 
I have not been persuaded to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. To confirm, that is: 
Westerby ought to have identified that Joseph Oliver LDA needed top up permissions to 
advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps 
available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Joseph Oliver LDA did not 
have the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions 
in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver LDA had the required 
permissions. 
In either event, it was not in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business I 
have outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Bs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Joseph Oliver LDA to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to 
be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Bs application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA.
I am therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
should not have accepted Mr Bs SIPP application from Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr B compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? I remain satisfied that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Bs application from Joseph 
Oliver LDA, and explained to Mr B why it was not able to do so, Mr B would not have 
continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA (as he would 
then have been aware it did not have permission from the FCA to provide such advice). And 
I think it very unlikely advice from a business with the required FCA permissions would have 
resulted in Mr B taking the same course of action. I think it reasonable to say that business 
would have given suitable advice. 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, I have seen no evidence to show Mr B proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investments he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Joseph Oliver LDA. 
Instead, it appears Mr B understood the investment, via the SIPP, would offer a higher return 
than his existing pension, and he says he does not recall being told there was any risk 
involved. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Mr B was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot 
be said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. I am satisfied that Mr B, unlike 
Mr Adams, was not eager to complete the transaction for reasons other than securing the 
best pension for himself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from that of Mr Adams.
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says if it had rejected Mr Bs application, 
Joseph Oliver LDA would simply have re-applied on behalf of Mr B to another SIPP operator, 
which Joseph Oliver LDA was using, and that SIPP operator would have accepted the 
application. 
However, Mr B would still have had to be willing to do business with Joseph Oliver LDA after 
Westerby had rejected his application, for another application to proceed. And, for the 
reasons given, I am not persuaded Mr B would have continued to accept or act on pensions 
advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. 
In the circumstances, I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Bs application from Joseph Oliver LDA, the transaction would not still 
have gone ahead. 
The involvement of Joseph Oliver LDA
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby has made points about the role of 
Joseph Oliver LDA. It says I have failed to properly address the contribution of Joseph Oliver 
LDA. 
I have carefully considered these points but remain of the view it is fair to require Westerby 
to compensate Mr B for the full measure of his loss. 
In this decision I am considering Mr Bs complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Joseph Oliver LDA gave unsuitable advice to Mr B to switch from his personal pension 
to a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations when considering whether to accept Mr Bs application for a SIPP. 
Joseph Oliver LDA had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond 
the scope of its permissions. Westerby was not required to ensure Joseph Oliver LDA 
complied with that responsibility. But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations 
under the Principles. And this included to check that firms introducing advised business to it 
had the regulatory permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply 
with these obligations in this case. 
I am satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA, 
and acted in accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently 
checking Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby 
would not have done any SIPP business with Joseph Oliver LDA in the first place. 
I am also satisfied that if Mr B had been told Joseph Oliver LDA was acting outside its 
permissions in giving pensions advice, he would not have continued to accept or act on 
advice from that business. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, 
it is my view that it is fair and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible for its failure to 
identify that Joseph Oliver LDA did not have the required top up permissions to be giving 
advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr B fairly. 
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr B 
compensation for the loss he has suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. I have however 
carefully considered if there is any reason why it would not be fair to ask Westerby to 
compensate Mr B for his loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable 
in full or in part.  And I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to 
compensate Mr B to the full extent of the financial losses he has suffered due to Westerbys 
failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Joseph Oliver LDA, in advising Mr B to enter into a 
SIPP, is responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Bs loss. However, it is 
also the case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a 
SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr B would not have come about in the first place, and 
the loss he suffered could have been avoided. 
In my provisional decision I noted that the document that sets out the terms of business 
between Westerby and Joseph Oliver LDA includes a section where the intermediary - 
Joseph Oliver LDA - agreed to indemnify Westerby for any loss it may suffer as a result of 
the intermediary acting beyond its authority. So this gives Westerby a form of recourse if it 
thinks Joseph Oliver LDA has breached the terms of this agreement.  And I said that, in 
addition, Westerby can have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr B 
has against Joseph Oliver LDA before compensation is paid. 
Westerby says its investigations into the financial health of Joseph Oliver LDA indicate there 
to be very low prospects of recovery from Joseph Oliver LDA. And so in its view any 
indemnity from Joseph Oliver LDA and/or assignment of rights to any action against it from Mr B is effectively worthless. 
I accept that may be true and the financial standing of Joseph Oliver LDA may not be 
healthy. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, Mr B would not have 
suffered the loss of his pension. As a result, the financial standing of Joseph Oliver LDA and 
the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on the terms of business to seek recovery 
under it does not persuade me to change my overall view. On that basis, it is fair in all the 
circumstances to require Westerby to pay compensation for the full measure of Mr Bs loss, 
notwithstanding any failings by Joseph Oliver LDA.
Westerby has also referred to a decision I made against an EEA based business, about 
SIPP advice. The circumstances of that complaint are very different. In that decision, I found 
that the business should compensate the consumer for half the loss they had suffered, in 
circumstances where the SIPP operator had already paid compensation for half the loss. 
That is not the case here.
As Ive highlighted above, I have to decide what amounts to fair compensation and the fact 
that I have found that Westerbys failings has led to the entirety of Mr Bs loss means that I 
consider it fair that Westerby should compensate Mr B to the full extent of that loss. I do not 
therefore think my findings here are inconsistent with the approach taken in that particular 
complaint, which in any event related to an entirely different set of facts and circumstances. 
I want to again make clear that I have carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. It is my view that it is appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby 
to compensate Mr B to the full extent of the financial losses he has suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, I 
am not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby should pay to Mr B.    
Opportunity to mitigate losses
I have carefully reconsidered this point but remain of the view that it would not be fair for any 
reduction to be made to fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr B to mitigate his 
loss.
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says it was acting in the best interests of 
the investors in keeping an eye on the investments and flagging issues with them. In its 
view, following its November 2014 letter any investor would have sought independent 
financial advice, or at the very least made some reasonable lines of enquiries. It says there 
is no evidence that Mr B would have sought independent advice from a regulated advisor 
even if the suggestion had been made. It adds that even if it had not referred Mr B back to 
Abana in November 2014 Mr B would have reverted back to Mr Fletcher regardless. And Mr 
Fletcher would have said that Westerby (and apparently others) were scaremongering, 
which is what it understands Mr Fletcher told other investors.
Finally, Westerby says that in the complaint which was the subject of the published final 
decision, the complainant was able to redeem his funds in May 2016. So it seems likely that 
Mr B could have mitigated his losses with a timely redemption request. 
I have carefully reconsidered this point but do not think it is fair for any reduction to be made 
to fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr B to mitigate his loss.
I do not think it fair to say Mr B should have made a redemption request when Westerby 
wrote to him in November 2014. That letter required Mr B to seek advice, and urged him to 
contact his financial advisor, Abana. I note there is no evidence to show Mr B contacted Abana. And I note Westerbys view is that it would have been reasonable for Mr B to take 
some action. But if Mr B had taken action, it is likely he would have taken the action 
Westerby strongly urged him to take  to seek advice from Abana. And Westerbys view  
which I share  is that such a course of action would have been unlikely to lead to Mr B 
being advised to make any changes.  
I also remain of the view that Westerby did not act in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations in sending this letter. I accept Westerbys point that it was acting in Mr Bs 
interests by highlighting issues with the investments he had made. But, acting fairly and 
reasonably, it should by this point have concluded Abana did not have the FCA permissions 
required to give the advice it was urging Mr B to take. On the complaints about introductions 
from Abana, Westerby says its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every 
time it received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors renumeration 
was to be paid. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr B in November 2014, it would have 
had many opportunities to discover that Joseph Oliver LDA and then Abana did not have the 
top up permissions they needed to give advice or make arrangements on personal pensions 
in the UK. For Westerby to have suggested that Mr B seek advice from Abana once 
problems with the funds he had invested in had come to light, is a further failing of its 
regulatory obligations. 
By the time of the June and July 2015 letters to Mr B from Westerby, Abana FS  a UK 
based firm authorised by the FCA  had replaced Abana. I note Westerby concludes in the 
July 2015 letter that Abana FS Ltd was not sufficiently independent (I assume because of its 
links to Abana). And it recommends Mr B seek advice from an advisor authorised by the 
FCA. I think that was a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances, which goes 
some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to meet its regulatory obligations by 
referring Mr B back to Abana. 
I note Mr B does not appear to have taken any action following these letters. But I remain of 
the view that it is unlikely a redemption request would have been successful, in any event. 
In relation to the Kijani fund, liquidators were appointed on 19 June 2015. Westerbys June 
2015 letter notes that some investors had, at that time, made redemption requests over 90 
days ago but not received any money. And I note that in the complaint which was the subject 
of the published decision Westerby summarised the situation with the Kijani fund in October 
2015 as suspended, in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will 
come back. 
So I think there is insufficient evidence to show any redemption request made in relation to 
the Kijani fund after issues with the fund were first highlighted in late 2014 would have been 
successful. 
In my provisional decision I noted Westerbys December 2015 letter  which shows the 
SAMAIF was suspended at that time - is somewhat contradictory as it says the suspension 
of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet active (i.e. 
it is still suspended).  
I further note the 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF suggests work to begin trading is still 
ongoing. And I also again note that in June 2016 Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently in   
communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable redemptions from the 
fund,however there are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy of their latest update is 
enclosed.Which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended at this time. So I have also not seen sufficient 
evidence to show a redemption request made in relation to the SAMAIF would have been 
successful either  it seems the SAMAIF was suspended for a considerable period of time, 
and it is not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. 
This is consistent with the published decision, which notes the amount paid to the SIPP in 
that case likely came from another investment rather than the Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as 
both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period in that case. 
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the correct permissions to be 
providing advice on pensions in the UK before accepting Mr Bs SIPP application from it.  
If Mr B had sought advice from a different advisor, I think its more likely than not that the 
advice would have been to stay in his existing pension. I think it is unlikely that another 
advisor, acting properly, would have advised Mr B to transfer away from his existing pension. 
Alternatively, as Mr B was happy with his Standard Life pension and had only considered 
moving it due to contact from Mr Fletcher, he may well have simply decided not to seek 
further advice and keep the pension. 
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr B would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. 
In summary, Westerby should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer. 
2. Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Bs share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, as set out above, it should have the option of payment 
of this redress being contingent upon Mr B assigning any claim he may have against Joseph 
Oliver LDA, to Westerby  but only in so far as Mr B is compensated here. The terms of the 
assignment should require Westerby to account to Mr B for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against Joseph Oliver LDA that exceeds the loss paid to Mr B. 
I have explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in 
further detail below:
Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Westerby should work out the likely value of Mr Bs pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring it to the SIPP. 
Westerby should ask Mr B's former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a 
notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be 
used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that 
could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.The calculation should take account of the value of any cash held in the SIPP currently, and 
any contributions or withdrawals made by Mr B. Any existing value of the investment should 
be covered by the next step. 
Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed.
The SIPP only exists because of the investments made in 2013. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP.
To do this Westerby should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value for 
the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant 
investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Westerby may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from the investments. That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr B may receive from the investments and any 
eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the loss 
calculated in (1). 
I am not certain whether, currently, Mr B can pay the redress into a pension plan. If he can, 
and assuming his doing so wouldnt give rise to any allowance or protection issues, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr B could 
claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax. For 
example, if Mr B is a basic rate taxpayer, the total amount should be reduced by 20%. I note 
Mr B says he thinks he can pay the money into a pension, but that he wont receive tax 
relief. It is my understanding that a payment in of compensation will be treated as a 
contribution by HMRC and hence be eligible for tax relief  and this is the approach we 
generally take when awarding compensation in pension complaints. However, to be clear, no 
allowance should be made for tax relief if Mr B is able to demonstrate he is not entitled to 
receive tax relief. 
On the other hand, Mr B may not currently be able to pay the redress into a pension plan. 
But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount to be paid to Mr B should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, 
if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate 
to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied 
to 75% of the total amount.  
I note Mr B refers to an amount arising from contracting out of part of the state pension, but 
any contributions Mr B made into previous schemes through contracting out should be 
reflected in the value of his pension  they arent ringfenced sums or benefits that are added 
at retirement age  and so will form part of the compensation I set out. If Mr B feels he has 
lost benefits as a result of an earlier switch (i.e. before the switch to the Westerby SIPP) that 
is, in any event, something which is beyond the scope of his complaint against Westerby. SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, Westerby should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to five years 
of future fees, to ensure its unlikely Mr B will have to pay further fees for holding the SIPP. 
Five years should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt with, and 
for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an alternative to this, Westerby can agree to 
waive any future fees which might be payable by Mr Bs SIPP.  
consequential loss
I note Mr B refers to having to take an equity release, after he retired early but was unable to 
follow his original plans due to illness. I am sorry to hear of Mr Bs health problems, but I am 
not persuaded the cost of the equity release is a direct consequence of Westerbys actions. 
And it seems Mr Bs original plans were based on taking his Westerby pension when he 
reached state pension age so if he had been able to take his Westerby pension earlier, to 
address the income shortfall resulting from his illness, he would then have had a shortfall 
later on. So either way it seems his provisions would not have been sufficient in the 
circumstances and he would have had to find a means of making up his income shortfall. 
interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr B or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Westerby Trustee 
Services Limited should calculate and pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman