DRN-1087256
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Miss K says 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold her the policy.
What happened
Miss K was sold the policy in 2000, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ks case. Having done so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill explain.
Miss K says that Barclays didnt make it clear to her that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen copies of screenshots from Barclays online application process at around the time 
of this sale. And Im satisfied that Miss K would have had to choose between two equally 
prominent options of either taking the PPI policy or declining it. Ive also seen information 
from Barclays systems which show that Miss K selected the option to take PPI with her card 
during the application process.
So, I think its most likely that Miss K actively chose to take PPI with her card, knowing she 
had a choice. But I can understand why she may not recall this now as the sale took place a 
long time ago.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss K, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But it did need to make sure she got the information she needed to decide this herself. 
I think its likely that the information Barclays gave Miss K about the PPI wasnt as good as it 
could have been. But Miss K chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she was interested in 
this type of cover. And from what I know about her circumstances at the time, I dont think 
better information would have changed her mind about taking the PPI. I say this because:
Miss K appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions and limitations. 
She says she didnt need the policy because she had generous sick pay and could 
also have relied on her parents for financial support in need. But this policy would 
have paid out in addition to any other means she had and for longer than she would have been eligible for full sick pay. It would also have been more secure than relying 
on relatives for help if things went wrong. So I still think she would have valued the 
extra protection which the policy gave her.
Ive no real reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss K. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs.
 
So I dont think that Miss K has lost out by anything that Barclays may have done wrong 
when it sold her this PPI policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss K because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss K about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Miss K, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss K.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before XXX.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman