DRN-4214910
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, failed to provide him with 
appropriate assistance in the transfer of his pension savings to a new provider.
What happened
Mr Cs complaint relates to the transfer of his pension savings from Virgin to Aegon. As the 
recipient of the transferred funds Aegon was responsible for making the transfer request to 
Virgin, and managing the process on Mr Cs behalf. The transfer took far longer than Mr C 
thinks was reasonable.
Mr C has made complaints about the actions of all three regulated firms involved in this 
transfer, Chevening (Mr Cs financial advisor), Aegon, and Virgin. I have carefully considered 
the actions of each firm and, I think the responsibility for the delay is shared between all 
three. I am issuing separate decisions on the complaints made by Mr C against Virgin and 
Chevening that largely mirror my findings here. So for that reason, and for clarity, I have 
chosen to name all three firms in this decision.
I issued provisional decisions on this complaint, and the complaints against Chevening and 
Virgin, earlier this month. In those decisions I explained why thought that Aegon shared 
responsibility with Chevening for the first part of the delay to the transfer. And so I set out 
what I thought Aegon needed to do in order to put things right. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Chevening provided Mr C with advice about the transfer of his pension savings in 
November 2019. Its advice was to combine two separate pensions, one of which was 
held with Virgin, into a single new plan to be held with Aegon. As part of that advice, 
Chevening recommended that Mr C should modify his investment approach to 
reduce the equity exposure, and so the risk, in his pension investments. Mr C agreed 
with Chevenings recommendation and agreed for the transfers to take place.
When Chevening first asked Virgin for information about Mr Cs pension savings, 
Virgin also sent the firm a form that it said would need to be completed should any 
transfer go ahead. Virgin did not offer transfers via the automated Origo Options 
system used by some other pension providers. But Chevening didnt ask Mr C to 
complete the transfer authorisation form provided by Virgin. Instead it asked Mr C to 
complete a form provided by the new receiving scheme, Aegon.
Chevening sent Mr Cs transfer request to Aegon on 30 January 2020, and Aegon 
sent the form on to Virgin on 12 February. Virgin confirmed receipt of Mr Cs 
instruction five days later. But on 21 February Virgin sent a letter to Aegon saying 
that it had rejected the transfer instruction. But the reasons Virgin provided were not 
entirely clear  it told Aegon that it needed any Letter of Authority to contain Mr Cs 
full postal address.
 
On 3 March, Mr C asked Chevening to provide him with an update on his transfer 
from Virgin. He noted that the transfer of his pension benefits from the other scheme, 
that had been requested at the same time, had completed a few weeks earlier. 
Chevening asked Aegon for an update, and following a series of phone calls between 
the three firms, the reason for Virgins rejection of the transfer request was identified. 
The form that Aegon had used to make the request did not contain Mr Cs full postal 
address. Mr C provided an updated application form on 5 March that was received by 
Virgin on 9 March.
Virgin still failed to process Mr Cs transfer request. On 9 April Virgin advised 
Chevening that Mr C needed to complete its own application form, rather than that 
provided by Aegon. Mr C completed that form and sent it to Virgin. Mr Cs transfer 
was completed on 21 April.
When Virgin looked at Mr Cs complaint it concluded that the form he had sent in on 
9 March was sufficient for it to complete his transfer. So it looked at whether Mr C 
had lost out as a result of the delay between when the transfer should have 
completed based on the receipt of that form (13 March) to its actual completion date 
(21 April). It concluded that Mr C hadnt lost out but paid him some compensation for 
his inconvenience.
But Mr C still considered that there had been a delay caused by the use of the wrong 
authorisation form, and due to the time it had taken for that problem to be identified. 
So he asked that we consider whether any of the parties were responsible for that 
part of the delay (between 21 February and 13 March).
As I have explained earlier, there are three regulated businesses involved in the 
matters that underpin Mr Cs complaint. In this decision I am only considering the 
actions, and responsibilities, of Aegon. And my directions will only relate to that firm. 
But I will naturally need to reflect on the actions of the other two firms. As I have said, 
I am issuing separate provisional decisions against Virgin and Chevening for their 
parts in the delay.
Virgin has already agreed that it should have been in a position to complete Mr Cs 
pension transfer when it received the updated application form containing his 
address in early March. So in this decision I need to consider the delay that occurred 
between the transfer application initially being sent to Virgin on 21 February, and the 
point at which the updated form was received.
I think the basic facts around that delay are not disputed. Virgin sent Chevening the 
forms that it said needed to be completed by Mr C to authorise the transfer when it 
provided information to Chevening about the pension plan in November 2019. I think 
the request Virgin made was reasonable, and set out clearly.
Details of the information Virgin required wasnt provided to Mr C, or to Aegon. So it 
was entirely Chevenings responsibility to ask Mr C to complete the relevant forms 
that had been sent, or at the very least to ensure that the application form Aegon 
used contained all the information that Virgin needed. That wasnt done, and so the 
initial cause of the delay appears to me to be due to the failings of Chevening.
Virgin received the transfer instruction from Aegon on 17 February. But four days 
later Virgin responded to Aegon. It said that it couldnt accept a letter of authority 
giving permission to access information about Mr Cs pension plan unless the letter 
of authority contained specific details including the consumers full address. But 
Aegon hadnt sent a letter of authority into Virgin  that had been sent by Chevening the previous October. So it seems there might have been some confusion about what 
Virgin had sent, and a delay was caused to Mr Cs transfer.
But Aegon initially failed to act on the letter Virgin had sent. It seems that it wasnt 
until Mr C chased Chevening for a progress update on his transfer in early March that 
any further actions were taken. At that point there were discussions between 
Chevening, Aegon, and Virgin. From those discussions it became apparent that 
Virgin actually required Mr Cs address to be submitted as part of the transfer 
application  and that was what its message was actually referring to, rather than the 
erroneous reference to a letter of authority.
Once that missing information had been established, Mr C, Chevening, and Aegon 
acted quickly to provide the required information to Virgin. But I think that additional 
time can only be considered to be as a result of the wrong form being used in the first 
place. But as I said earlier, Virgin has agreed that it held all that it needed in early 
March, and that Mr Cs transfer should have been completed around 13 March. So 
I think it is at this point that my consideration of the delay, in respect of this complaint, 
should end.
As I have explained, I think there are two parties at fault for the delay Mr C 
experienced between 21 February and 13 March. Chevening failed to provide Mr C 
with the levels of assistance I think he had reason to expect. It had been made aware 
of the information Virgin required from Mr C in order to authorise a transfer. It failed 
to make either Mr C or Aegon aware of those information requirements, or ensure 
that Mr Cs transfer authority was compliant. And I think that Aegon failed to act on 
the letter it was sent when Mr Cs application was rejected. Although that letter might 
not have been as clear as it might have been, it still fell to Aegon to understand what 
was being requested. So I think that Chevening and Aegon should share the cost of 
any compensation that is due to Mr C for the delays between 21 February and 
13 March.
 
I have thought carefully about how the cost of the compensation between 
21 February and 13 March should be shared. I have looked carefully at the timeline 
that applies, and think that the responsibility should be divided as follows;
Chevening - 21 February to 26 February (5 days). Had the correct form been 
used to make the transfer application it would have been processed by Virgin 
within 5 days of receipt. So the time taken for a rejection to be received by 
Aegon was due to a failure by Chevening.
Aegon  26 February to 4 March (7 days). This was the time taken to act on 
the rejection by Virgin of Mr Cs transfer request. That delay was the 
responsibility of Aegon.
Chevening - 4 March to 13 March (9 days). This was the additional time 
required for the completion and submission of new transfer instructions in a 
form ultimately agreed as being acceptable to Virgin. As before had the 
correct information been provided at the outset this delay would not have 
occurred so is the responsibility of Chevening.
The initial analysis performed by Virgin of the losses experienced by Mr C suggest 
that overall, between 21 February and 13 March, the value of Mr Cs pension savings 
fell. And that their value then recovered a little in the period to 21 April. So Virgin has 
said that its delay, from 13 March onwards, didnt cause any loss to Mr C. And 
I agree with that analysis.But, within that period as Ive noted above, Mr Cs pension savings actually 
experienced an increase in their value. So Mr C would be unduly compensated if 
I simply looked at the fall in the value of his pension savings between 21 February 
and 13 March. So I will allow Aegon, and Chevening, to proportionately reduce the 
compensation they need to pay to Mr C by the later gain. But, I do not intend to 
apportion the loss any further between the three earlier periods. As I explain below 
I think the overall loss between 21 February and 13 March should be calculated, and 
then apportioned between Aegon and Chevening as set out above.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr C has said that he largely agrees with my findings, but has some 
concerns over the complexity of the calculation the three businesses will need to perform in 
order to put things right. He says that he would like to be able to check and verify the 
calculation against his own records. And he has pointed out a typographical error in the 
compensation that I said I would direct Aegon to pay. I will correct that error below.
Aegon has said that it doesnt agree with my provisional findings. Although here I am only 
summarising what Aegon has said, I want to confirm that I have read, and carefully 
considered, the entire response.
Aegon agrees that Mr Cs pension transfer was delayed. But it says that it doesnt think it 
was responsible for any part of the delay. It says that the rejection letter it received from 
Virgin was unclear, and that resulted in the communication being mis-categorised on its 
systems. It says that error was corrected on 4 March when it discussed with Virgin what 
information was actually required.
Aegon says that, in any case, it would be unreasonable to expect it to have dealt with 
Virgins rejection on the day it was received. It says that the letter wasnt miscategorised until 
three days after its receipt  that is in line with its normal processing timescales. It doesnt 
think Virgins letter should have been fast tracked. So it thinks the part of the delay that I am 
attributing to Aegon was actually the responsibility of the other parties, Chevening and 
Virgin.
Aegon has also questioned the way in which I have said any compensation should be 
determined. It says that instead of considering the two periods I set out in my provisional 
decision, before and after 13 March, I should in fact treat the entire period as a whole. It says 
that it is unfair to suggest that Virgin doesnt have any liability for the loss simply because its 
part of the delay came at a time of favourable market movements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully 
considered the submissions that have been made by Mr C and by Aegon. Where the 
evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.And again I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive thought carefully about the response that we have received from Aegon to my 
provisional findings. And Ive also taken account of the response that Chevening has 
provided to my findings on the other complaint. Having done so Im not minded that I should 
change the way in which I think the responsibility for the delay should be apportioned. But 
I would like to provide some additional reasoning in the light of Aegons comments.
I accept that the error in Virgins letter might have caused Aegon some difficulties in correctly 
categorising the request on its systems. But it is for Aegon to ensure that it correctly 
identifies the purpose of any correspondence it receives. And, if the apparent request being 
made doesnt reflect Aegons understanding of the current situation, it should clarify the 
request in a timely manner.
I am not persuaded that Aegons discussions with Virgin on 4 March were as a result of its 
own processing activities. Mr C asked Chevening to update him on the progress of his 
transfer the day before, and Chevening had passed that request onto Aegon. I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that, without Mr C and Chevenings intervention, Aegon would 
have sought more information from Virgin about the request it had been sent.
So whilst I accept that a reasonable period might be expected for any processing activity to 
take place, I dont think that can be entirely blamed for the additional delay that was caused 
to Mr C. At the extreme, it could be argued that Aegons responsibility started a couple of 
days after the letter was received  when it was incorrectly classified on its systems. But Im 
not persuaded that would result in a fair outcome to Mr Cs complaints.
I think Mr C has been generous in accepting the twelve days that Aegon initially took to 
forward his transfer request to Virgin. I dont think it unreasonable to have expected that 
initial activity to have been completed sooner. So taking that delay into account I think it 
would be reasonable for him to expect Aegon to have responded to Virgins rejection on 
receipt. I dont think that Aegon acting in that way would be reasonably considered to be 
treating Mr C unfairly when compared to its other customers. 
So my conclusion remains that Aegon should be considered responsible for seven days of 
the delay that Mr Cs pension transfer suffered.
The delay to the transfer naturally falls into two distinct parts. There was an initial period of 
time leading up to Virgin being provided with an acceptable transfer instruction that 
contained all the information it needed to proceed. And then there was a second delay, in 
Virgin actioning that instruction. Given I am finding that the responsibility for the first part of 
the delay only falls between Aegon and Chevening, and that the responsibility for the second 
part of the delay only falls to Virgin, I dont think it unreasonable to separate the two time 
periods when considering the compensation that needs to be paid.
So I remain of the opinion that responsibility for the delay to the transfer of Mr Cs pension 
benefits, that took place between 21 February and 13 March should be shared between 
Aegon and Chevening in the ratio of 1:2. It follows that Aegon should now pay Mr C the 
compensation I set out in my provisional decision, and repeated below for clarity (with the 
correction of the typographical error in the dates as pointed out by Mr C).Putting things right
Aegon should request information from Virgin to determine the value of Mr Cs pension 
savings that would have been transferred had his request been completed when the 
authorisation form was first submitted to Virgin. I understand that date to be 
21 February 2020. That value should be compared to the amount being used by Virgin to 
calculate the compensation it might have needed to pay for the later delay  I understand the 
relevant date to be 13 March 2020.
If that shows the value on 21 February would have been higher than that on 13 March then 
Mr C has lost out as a result of the delay. As set out previously that delay amounts to 
21 days, of which 7 are the responsibility of Aegon. So Aegon is responsible for one third of 
the compensation that is due to Mr C.
But Aegon should also request information from Virgin to determine the value of Mr Cs 
pension savings when they were ultimately transferred. I understand that will be greater than 
the notional value as at 13 March. Aegon may deduct one third of that gain from the 
compensation that is due to Mr C.
The value of that compensation should then be used to calculate a final compensation value 
by adding or subtracting notional returns based on the investment performance of Mr Cs 
overall pension savings as if they had been invested in the same way as they have been, 
from the date the transfer should have concluded, on 21 February 2020, to the date of any 
final decision along these lines. For clarity that means Aegon should also account for any 
gains or losses the transferred pension savings would have experienced if the transfer had 
happened earlier. Aegon should also supply information about the investment returns to 
Chevening so it can calculate its share of the compensation to be paid.
The compensation should be paid into Mr C's pension plan. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aegon is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think that its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, as Mr C would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Aegon should provide Mr C with a clear and easily understood statement of its calculations 
showing the method it has used to assess the compensation he is due.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Scottish Equitable Plc to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman