DRN-1879147
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the service she received from Virgin Money plc when she took her 
pension in 2019.
What happened
Mrs A wanted to take her full pension fund as an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum. 
She called Virgin Money on 19 June 2019 and it said it would send her an options booklet by 
first class post. Mrs A called again on 24 June, as she hadnt received it. She was told it 
would be sent by first class post within five working days of her having asked for it. Mrs A 
received the booklet on 27 June. She phoned Virgin Money and told it she wanted to 
withdraw all her money in one lump sum. Virgin Money told her 25% would be paid as tax-
free cash and an identity check needed to be carried out before the money would be 
released. 
Mrs A phoned on 1 July and Virgin Money explained the check had been carried out and 
they would get some forms out to her by 3 July. She received the form on 5 July and 
returned it on 9 July.
On 10 July Virgin Money received the completed form. Mrs A phoned on 12 July and said 
she had expected to be paid on 10 July. She was told it was being processed and the 
payment would be based on the value of the fund on 12 July. Mrs A was unhappy because 
she had been told it would be processed on the day Virgin Money received the completed 
forms, which was 10 July. Virgin Money told her it hadnt been received on 10 July, but Mrs 
A said she had received notice from the Post Office that it had been delivered on 10 July. 
She was also told that the payment needed to be referred to head office because there were 
potential tax issues with over-75s. She was told her holdings would be sold that day and 
proceeds would be sent the next working day.
Mrs A was sent a cheque on 15 July (the next working day) but when she received it, it was 
for much less than she was expecting. She phoned Virgin Money on 16 July and told Virgin 
Money it had taken too much off as tax. She was told to contact HMRC. Mrs A phoned again 
later that day to make a formal complaint. 
On 17 July Virgin Money offered Mrs A £50 for the delay in processing her payment 
On 18 July Virgin Money phoned and said it would send a breakdown of the payment by 23 
July. 
Mrs A called on 25 July and said she hadnt received the breakdown.
On 26 July Virgin Money called her to tell her that her deal was being reviewed to check she 
hadnt been disadvantaged by the delay in processing it. 
On 9 August Virgin Money phoned Mrs A. It explained theyd incorrectly told her she was 
entitled to 25% of the withdrawal proceeds as tax-free cash. That was a mistake, but it had 
deducted the correct tax. It said it would compensate her for the misinformation but wouldnt 
be able to respond before 19 August. Mrs A queried what she was being told. She said she 
had checked with two tax experts, who told her she was entitled to 25% of the proceeds tax-
free. She said she would do some research over the next few days to check the correct tax 
position. 
On 19 August Mrs A phoned Virgin Money. Virgin Money apologised and said it had, after 
all, made a mistake and she was entitled to 25% of the proceeds tax-free. It said it would 
send her a cheque for the shortfall and £100 compensation. It increased its offer to £250 a 
month later.
Mrs A wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys offer. She said she had lost around £244 due to 
delays  she referred to the value of her units on 4 July, which she said was £244 higher 
than the value on 10 July. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs As complaint. He thought the number of phone 
calls, the length of time taken to resolve matters and the incorrect information given to Mrs A 
warranted higher compensation. He thought Virgin Money should pay a further £200 
compensation. 
Virgin Money didnt agree. It said it had corrected its errors and sent her the right amount. 
The errors did take around 40 days to resolve. But it had paid £300 in compensation already 
and felt this was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If things had gone smoothly, Mrs A should have been sent a cheque shortly after 10 July for 
£28,882.74  based on a fund value on 10 July of £41,001.34 with 25% tax-free and the rest 
taxed in line with HMRC rules. She was actually sent a cheque for £24,270.24 and 
repeatedly told it was correct.
It took around 40 days before Virgin Money accepted it had made an error. In that time Mrs 
A made many calls to Virgin Money, sought advice from tax experts, did her own online 
research and was given incorrect information on more than one occasion.
While I note there was some delay in processing the compensation payments, that seems to 
be due to errors at Mrs As bank, which Virgin Money is not responsible for. 
Mrs A feels that the £300 compensation already paid mostly covers the amount she lost due 
to delays on Virgin Moneys part. She mentions that the value of her fund was £41,245.48 on 
4 July, which is around £244 more than the value she received on 10 July - £41,001.10. But 
as the investigator explained, I dont think Virgin Money did cause any delay up to the point it 
received the withdrawal form on 10 July.
Until then, it had sent and actioned correspondence within its standard 3-5 day turnaround 
time. So I dont think Mrs A lost out on £244 due to any delay on Virgin Moneys part. 
Coincidentally, the difference between the fund valuation on 10 July, when the form was 
received by Virgin Money and the date the transaction was processed, 12 July, was £244. 
But I can see that Virgin Money used the higher, 10 July valuation of £41,001.34 to calculate 
how much Mrs A should receive, so I dont think shes lost out on £244 there either. I think Mrs A probably did suffer some distress, being told that she was not entitled to tax-
free cash and perhaps thinking she would receive thousands of pounds less than she was 
expecting. To then seek out independent advice, which agreed with her yet be told 
repeatedly that this was not correct must have been frustrating. She certainly suffered some 
inconvenience  several phone calls to Virgin Money, talking to tax experts by phone and 
face to face and carrying out online research. And while the errors were corrected after 40 
days or so, it seems to me that was largely due to Mrs As persistence and refusal to accept 
the incorrect information Virgin Money gave her.
Virgin Money has already paid Mrs A £50 for the two-day delay in processing the payment, 
which should originally have been processed on 10 July. I understand from Virgin Moneys 
contact notes that Mrs A seemed reasonably happy with that at the time. It paid her £100 on 
23 August for the incorrect information and tax errors and the distress and inconvenience 
caused by them. On 26 September it increased this and sent a further cheque for £150. 
I might think £250 compensation was reasonable for the error in deducting too much tax, 
causing some upset and a few phone calls to sort it out in a reasonably short period of time 
and eventually paying the correct amount. But I think additional upset to Mrs A was caused 
by, having pointed out the error, repeatedly being told that the tax had been correctly 
deducted, e.g. on 15 July, 31 July, 2 August and 9 August. She queried this repeatedly, 
spoke to tax experts and did her own research. On 2 August, she was told she would get an 
explanation in 3-5 days, she called again on 9 August as Virgin Money hadnt given her an 
explanation. Virgin Money again incorrectly told her that she hadnt been entitled to the tax-
free element. 
I think she probably was caused an additional degree of distress, frustration and 
inconvenience that Virgin Money could have avoided by checking the tax position more 
carefully and accurately. On balance I agree with the investigator that further compensation 
is due and overall, having taken everything into account I think a further amount of £200 is 
fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct Virgin Money plc to pay 
Mrs A a further £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Greg Barham
Ombudsman