DRN-2115228
The complaint
Mr C complains AXA Insurance Ltd handled his motor trader insurance policy claim poorly.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr C claimed for theft of a vehicle on his AXA motor trader insurance policy. 
Someone claiming to be a potential buyer stole the vehicle during a test drive. AXA refused 
the claim. It said Mr C didnt have optional cover for accompanied demonstrations. 
AXA also relied on a theft by deception exclusion in the policy to refuse the claim. The car 
was later recovered. AXA arranged for it to be taken into storage. It remained there until 
November 2019. At that point Mr C agreed to sell it to the storage company.
Mr C accepted AXAs reason for not paying his claim. But hes unhappy with other aspects 
of its service, including the vehicle being taken into storage. Ultimately, he feels AXA cost 
him money by doing that. 
AXA responded to Mr Cs complaint. It apologised for mislaying the first complaint letter he 
sent. But it didnt accept it had got anything else wrong. It later confirmed that it had sent him 
a cheque for £25 to compensate him for the delay in having his complaint considered. 
Mr C wasnt happy with that response. So he came to this service. Our Investigator didnt 
feel AXA had treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably. He didnt recommend it pay him 
anything more or do anything differently. Mr C didnt accept that. So the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking AXA to pay Mr C anything or do anything differently.
Ive previously sent my thoughts on this complaint to Mr C. So I dont intend to repeat them 
here in detail. Ive considered his response to my findings. But they havent changed my 
mind. As Ive previously explained my position in detail, here Ive just provided a summary. 
AXAs decision to rely on the deception exclusion, not to repair or replace the vehicle, was 
fair and reasonable. And Mr C hasnt shown AXAs storage provider caused any additional 
damage to the car. 
I think Mr C was aware his vehicle was being taken by AXAs storage provider  and why. 
But he chose not to engage with it  despite various requests for him to arrange the cars 
delivery to his chosen location. Im not persuaded by the various reasons hes given for not 
doing so. 
The storage location was more than 70 miles away from Mr Cs premises. But I cant see 
that made any real difference. The storage provider was trying to deliver the vehicle to him. 
He wasnt being asked to collect it.
Mr C didnt have to sell the car to the storage provider for the amount he did. He made the 
decision to do so. Mr Cs said he thinks AXA only took the vehicle into storage so its provider 
could benefit from a cheap purchase of the vehicle. I havent seen anything to support what 
he says. 
 
Its possible AXAs communications with Mr C in general could have been a little better 
overall. But I dont think it got so much wrong, or caused him so much unnecessary 
inconvenience or distress, that it would be reasonable to make it pay him any additional 
compensation above the £25 already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not asking AXA Insurance Ltd pay Mr C anything or do 
anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman