DRN-3057625
The complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt settled a claim he made on his car 
insurance policy, after he was involved in an accident.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr K was involved in a car accident. He made UKI (his insurer) aware of 
the incident. In September 2020, Mr K informed UKI his solicitor had reached an agreement 
with the third party, that the claim would be settled on a 50/50 basis.
The third partys insurer has settled its share of Mr Ks repair costs, but UKI hasnt. UKI says 
this is because Mr K hasnt provided the information it needs. UKI says it can review the 
claim further once the required information is received.
UKI wrote to Mr K in October 2020, setting out the following concerns:
- Mr Ks engineers report only details a summary of the repairs needed. It doesnt 
provide a full breakdown.
- The engineer inspected the vehicle at a different location to where the repairs were 
carried out. The engineer deemed the vehicle unroadworthy.
- The repair invoice doesnt provide a full breakdown of the repairs. It only quotes the 
summary of repairs noted on the engineers report.
- The repair invoice provides no information about the parts required. It doesnt provide 
a list of the parts used or the cost breakdown.
- The repair invoice doesnt include a breakdown for VAT or confirm the companys 
VAT number, even though the repair cost appears to charge VAT.
- The repair invoice doesnt include a valid telephone number for the repairing garage. 
UKI has been unsuccessful at contacting the garage directly to discuss the above 
points.
UKIs October 2020 letter went on to explain its been unable to validate the documentation 
provided, so it isnt in a position to reimburse Mr K for the cost of his repairs. UKI said it 
needs evidence to support the costs being claimed, and it requested the following:
- Confirmation and a breakdown of how the engineer arrived at his repair estimate, 
such as an Audatex report.
- A fully costed repair invoice showing the breakdown of labour cost, paint cost, and a 
price list showing the part numbers.
- Confirmation of the VAT number for the repairing garage, in order to consider the 
VAT element of the claim.
- Proof of payment for the vehicle repairs (such as a bank statement).
- Photographs of the vehicle in a post-repair condition.
- Evidence to show how the vehicle was recovered from the scene of the accident; and 
an explanation for why the vehicle was taken to a location nearly 40 miles from 
where the accident occurred.
- Evidence to show how the vehicle was moved from where the inspection was carried 
out, to the repairer; and an explanation for why the vehicle was moved to a repairer 
nearly 120 miles away, and nearly 100 miles from Mr Ks home.
In November 2020, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. In January 2021, UKI wrote to 
Mr K again. UKI explained it hadnt yet received any of the information it had requested in its 
October 2020 letter.
One of our investigators thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Due to the engineers 
report and the repair invoice, he thought Mr K had done enough to support his claim. He 
didnt think it was fair for the claim to be declined simply because the repairer wasnt 
responding to contact.
UKI disagreed with our investigators outcome. UKI reiterated that Mr K hadnt provided any 
response to its letter, and it noted a number of gaps in the information that had been 
provided. Because UKI disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
UKI is entitled to make enquiries, irrespective of whether the third-party insurer has already 
settled its share of Mr Ks repair invoice. Under the policy terms, Mr K needs to cooperate 
with UKI.
Importantly, I dont consider the questions raised by UKI to be unreasonable. So, Mr K 
needs to respond to UKIs letter if he wishes for UKI to consider his claim. 
Even if Mr K is genuinely having difficulty contacting the engineer and the repairer (which are 
two separate businesses) for the information UKI requires, it follows that he should be able 
to provide the other information its asked for. Such as, photos of the car repaired; proof of 
payment for the repairs, recovery, and transportation of the vehicle; and answers to UKIs 
questions about how the vehicle was recovered and moved between locations, and why 
those locations were chosen. I also understand the engineer was appointed by Mr Ks 
solicitor, so I consider it likely his solicitor could help him contact that business.
Ive not seen Mr K has engaged with the questions UKI set out in its October 2020 letter. As 
such, I consider UKIs position to be reasonable. UKI has confirmed it will review its position 
if it receives a response to that letter, which I also consider to be fair. In response to my provisional decision, UKI confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr K 
made the following points:
- Mr K didnt think I had read all the information. He also said his complaint about UKIs 
handling of the claim had been ignored.
- Mr K explained that, during a previous claim, he had a bad experience with UKI after 
it took responsibility for repairing his vehicle. He said, for his recent claim, he didnt 
require a courtesy car as he could use his wifes car; and the reason his car was 
repaired at the chosen location was due to availability. 
- Mr K said, the fact he has since been driving his car, shows it was repaired after the 
accident. He also said his photos wouldnt cover every part UKI needs to see.
- Mr K said he had tried to contact the garage for further information. However, its 
been closed due to the pandemic, and as far as hes aware, its never reopened.
- Mr K also said he did contact his solicitors. However, his case was closed, and the 
solicitors simply confirmed the evidence he has is enough and was accepted.
- Mr K says UKI didnt follow its procedures. He says he reported the accident to UKI 
straight away, and it was meant to contact him in the event it was notified that the 
third-party was holding him liable. Mr K says UKI was notified of the third-partys 
intention to hold him liable, about five to six months before the 50/50 settlement 
agreement was reached; and had UKI contacted him at that time, then those
involved could have provided the information it now requires.
- Mr K also said, if UKI had contacted all the parties at the time it was meant to, then it 
would have had all its questions answered; just as the third-party insurer had all its 
questions answered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I assure Mr K that Ive carefully read all the submissions of both parties, and considered the 
complaints made. However, its for me to determine the crux of the complaint and focus on 
the issues I consider relevant to that matter.
Mr Ks response to my provisional decision doesnt answer the questions raised by UKI in its 
October 2020 letter, or provide the information it asked for. Even if the garage isnt currently 
open, as noted in my provisional decision, I consider Mr K should be able to respond to the 
other points and provide the other information.
UKI has acknowledged that it ought to have contacted Mr K when it became aware of the 
third partys intentions. However, Im not persuaded that issue has any bearing on Mr Ks 
ability to provide the information UKI requires. UKIs oversight doesnt mean Mr K has no 
obligation to engage with it, or that it must simply pay his claim.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but for the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional 
decision, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman