DRN-3306996
Complaint
Mr N has complained about an overdraft Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
provided to him. He says the overdraft shouldnt have been increased as he had no income 
or benefits.
Mr N is being assisted in his complaint by his mother who Ill refer to as Mrs N.
Background
Nationwide provided Mr N with an overdraft with an initial limit of £100 in June 2020. 
Between June 2020 and April 2021 Mr N made a number of limit increase applications and 
limit reduction requests until his overdraft limit was set at £500. In April 2021, the limit was 
increased to £1,000.00. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr N and Nationwide had told us. And she thought 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr N unfairly in relation to providing the 
overdraft. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ns complaint be upheld. Mrs N, on behalf of   
Mr N, disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
Nationwide needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr N 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Nationwide says it agreed to Mr Ns initial overdraft application and his limit increases after it 
obtained information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Mrs N says Mr N wasnt in employment and an increase was provided even after 
she told Nationwide that Mr N had been hospitalised. Ive carefully thought about what Mrs N 
and Nationwide have said. 
I have to start by saying that there doesnt appear to be any dispute the limit increases prior 
to April 2021 were affordable as Mr N appears to have been in receipt of a salary (for most 
of this period), ran his account well and had a good track record with regard to the credit he 
had elsewhere too. 
As I understand it, what Mrs N and Mr N are unhappy about are the events which unfolding 
after Mrs N contacted Nationwide in December 2020 to explain that Mr N was hospitalised 
and enquired into whether anything could be done to stop him spending on his account while 
he was in hospital. At this point Mrs N was told Nationwide would need some kind of formal 
legal notification  such as a power of attorney  in order to restrict Mr Ns account in the 
way suggested. Nationwide also suggested that if Mrs N couldnt obtain this it would 
consider any information provided by a medical professional. 
I can fully appreciate why Mrs N might have felt Nationwides response might have appeared 
unsympathetic, unnecessarily burdensome and overly bureaucratic. And I fully appreciate 
that all Mrs N was doing was looking out for her sons wellbeing at a difficult time. However, I 
do have to weigh this against the fact that Mrs N was asking Nationwide to restrict Mr Ns 
ability to access his money. 
As this would have been a drastic step, which would have had significant consequences, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have requested this further information 
from Mrs N as a safeguard before doing anything. As Ive said, Im certain Mrs N was 
making this request with the best of intentions. But bearing in mind what Mrs N was asking 
Nationwide to do, I dont think what this on its own was enough, or that what Nationwide was 
asking for was unreasonable.
Furthermore, even though the limit increases Mrs N (and Mr N) are unhappy about appear to 
have taken place a few months after Mrs Ns conversation with Nationwide took place and 
after Mr N had left hospital, I do think that Nationwide may well have taken into account what 
had been said when deciding whether to increase Mr Ns overdraft limit. I say this because it 
only increased Mr Ns overdraft back to the limit it was after Mr N had reduced it a day 
earlier. And when Mr N applied for a further increase which would have taken well above his 
previous one, this application was declined. Its worth noting that there wasnt anything else 
in the information available which suggested Mr N wasnt working at this stage either.    
I know that Mr Ns position did worsen. But this was after his limit went back to £1,000.00. 
And even if Nationwide did refuse to process any requests from Mr N in relation to his 
overdraft limit the limit would, in any event, have remained at £1,000.00 as the limit decrease 
request wouldnt have been accepted either. 
So overall while I can understand Mrs N and Mr Ns sentiments, I dont think that Nationwide 
treated Mr N unfairly or unreasonably when increasing his overdraft limit, or when continuing 
to allow him access the funds in his account. And Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr N. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Even though Im not upholding this complaint, Id nevertheless like to remind Nationwide of 
its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that it chooses to 
continue pursuing the outstanding balance from Mr N and its the case that she is 
experiencing financial difficulty. I would encourage the parties to co-operate in an effort to 
reach a mutually acceptable repayment method for any balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman