DRN-2946188
The complaint
Mr H complained that Ageas Retail Limited (Ageas) mis-sold him a roadside assistance 
policy alongside his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr H contacted Ageas to change some of the administrative details on his motor policy. 
During that call Ageas sold Mr H comprehensive gold breakdown cover. The cover was 
added to his policy and was provided by a third-party company (TPC).
Unfortunately, Mr Hs car broke down whilst he was away from his home and he called TPC 
for assistance. Mr H thought hed bought a certain kind of breakdown cover to go alongside 
his policy, but Mr H said TPC only provided a recovery service. Mr H said TPC didnt try and 
repair his car or take it to a garage. Instead, his car was recovered to his home. Mr H said he 
was left to pay another company to transport his car to the garage, pay for other costs 
associated with the repair and costs to hire a car. The costs totalled around £600.
Ageas said when the cover was sold its consultant correctly explained the three types of 
cover that were available to Mr H. It said Mr H agreed to the comprehensive gold breakdown 
cover as it met his needs.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt think Mr H had been given 
incorrect or misleading information about what hed be entitled to claim for in the event of a 
breakdown. She also explained that Ageas wouldnt be responsible for any issues of poor 
service in the delivery of the roadside assistance. She said these issues would need to be 
raised directly with the TPC. Mr H disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of decision
I have started by reviewing some of Mr Hs comments to better understand his complaint. He 
said:
as you can see you call it a break down service but its a recovery service. It takes you, it 
doesn't try and fix you, so that's why I need a full refund and my car hire refunded and
compensation for mis-selling to me.
I had a gold service and it wasn't worth the paper it was [written] on. I wanted a breakdown 
service and they clearly didn't give me that. I got a back-street service.
Before I set out my decision, its important I explain what the Financial Ombudsman Service 
can make decisions on. Mr H raised a clear concern that he was mis-sold the roadside 
assistance policy by Ageas, but he has also raised concerns with the standard of service he 
received from TPC i.e. the company who provided the service.
We cant consider all complaints we receive. The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules covering complaints, known as DISP rules. 
These rules set out the parameters for deciding which complaints can and cant be 
considered.
The DISP rules set out that we can only consider regulated activities. In this case, Ageas is 
principally acting as a broker selling a motor policy which is a regulated activity. As the 
roadside assistance policy was sold alongside the motor policy, we can also look at whether 
Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably in selling and administering the roadside assistance 
policy.
However, the delivery of the service (provided by TPC in this case) falls outside of the 
regulated activities. So, I cant consider or make decisions on the activities that TPC has 
performed. For example, I cant consider whether TPC was reasonable in relaying Mr Hs 
vehicle to his home rather than to a garage. Mr H would need to raise issues about the 
roadside assistance service directly with TPC.
Did Ageas mis-sell the roadside assistance policy?
Both Ageas and Mr H agree that the roadside assistance policy was sold by Ageas over the 
phone to Mr H when he telephoned to change some administrative details on his motor 
policy. Therefore, I have listened to what was said on that call and looked at the terms and 
conditions of the policy. If I think Ageas has set out the main characteristics of the policy in a 
clear way and these are consistent with the terms and conditions of the policy, Im likely to 
say Ageas has acted fairly. To remind you, I wont be commenting on whether TPC delivered 
the policy effectively in line with the terms and conditions, as this is outside of my remit
as a Financial Ombudsman.
The crux of the complaint is that Mr H thought hed bought a roadside assistance policy that 
would cover the costs of getting his car to a garage and any necessary car hire charges.
Ageas provided some summary commentary of the sales call:
Our consultant explained we had 3 levels of breakdown cover and correctly provided you 
with the following information: if you were to breakdown more than a mile from your home, it 
takes you to the nearest suitable garage and the second level of cover that we do is 
Comprehensive Gold. That would cover you from your home, take you onwards to any UK 
destination, brings you home or to a garage of your choice, and that optional breakdown 
cover provided by TPC costs only £74 a year, but adding it on mid-term it would only be 
£61.84 and that can be used 6 times and all youd need to do is pay for the cost of 
replacement parts and other materials used.
You agreed you were happy to include the comprehensive gold cover and it met your 
needs, and asked So basically if I break down, I just basically get to a garage. Our 
consultant reconfirmed the cover would either bring you back home or to a garage.
For clarity, due to the amount of cover included, when offering breakdown cover, we provide 
limited information to our customers and therefore our consultant did not discuss roadside 
repairs or the hire car with you; however, customers are invited to ask if they have any 
questions regarding the cover, and when asked, you confirmed again you wanted to include 
the cover and had no further questions.I cannot evidence a failing in the information provided to you by our consultant; it was clearly 
explained before you accepted the breakdown cover you would be taken to a garage or 
home and I am unable to agree the Comprehensive Gold was mis-sold to you. 
Consequently, we will not be reimbursing you for the cost of the breakdown cover or hire 
vehicle.
I have listened to the call and Im persuaded that Ageas summary is a fair reflection of what 
was discussed on the call. In addition, I noted Mr H told the call handler that he was already 
covered for free car parts at any garage. Mr H said he was happy with the second level of 
cover as it would get his car to a garage which is what he said he needed. Therefore, I think 
Ageas has been reasonable in providing Mr H with the information he needed, when it sold 
the policy.
I have checked the terms and conditions of the comprehensive gold cover to ensure it 
matched what Ageas sold to Mr H. The policy states:
In the event of loss of use of the vehicle caused by breakdown, and it is apparent an 
effective repair cannot be made by the end of the working day in which the breakdown 
occurred, we will arrange to pay the cost of alternative transport to enable you to complete 
your journey.
We will pay for the transportation of your vehicle and insured person(s) to:
i) Your home address, or
ii) Your original destination anywhere in the UK, or
iii) A suitable garage either in the vicinity of the breakdown location, or to a suitable
garage of your choice.
The terms and conditions of the policy are consistent with the sales call. Its clear the policy 
should cover Mr H for the transportation costs of getting his car to a garage and for any 
costs in completing his own journey. It doesnt mention any car hire costs are covered. I 
think Ageas has followed a reasonable process in selling the roadside assistance policy, so 
Im not upholding this complaint. I think Ageas has sold the policy fairly. If Mr H hasnt been 
provided with a service thats consistent with the terms and conditions, he will need to speak 
with TPC. Unfortunately, under the rules of the FCA, we cant consider this part of the 
complaint.
Mr H wanted to remove the assistance cover from his policy and have the premiums hed 
paid refunded. Ageas explained it couldnt do this. It advised Mr H that he would need to 
raise his complaint with TPC as it wasnt authorised to make the refund. I think Ageas have 
been fair as any refunds or compensation for the delivery of the service would need to be 
provided by TPC. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ageas Retail Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman