DRN-3506625
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with the renewal of her 
private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs T has private medical insurance underwritten by AXA which 
renews in December each year. On renewal in 2021, AXA offered Mrs T                
Guided Option, which means that AXA finds a suitable specialist from its list, rather 
than Mrs T or her GP selecting the specialist. This reduced the premium. Mrs T says that 
she should have been offered Guided Option when she renewed in 2020. She says 
that AXA changed the information it gave to policyholders in 2021 and thats why she 
was offered Guided Option on renewal in that year, but not in 2020. Mrs T wants a 
refund of part of the premium she paid in 2020. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
acted unfairly. That was because AXAs note of Mrs Ts renewal call in 2020 indicate that 
she didnt want to change her cover, so he wouldnt expect AXA to mention other 
options.  
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. She said that AXA changing its script is central 
to her complaint. Mrs T says that if shed been offered Guided Option in 2020, she 
would have taken that option. She says that the choice of consultant under            
Guided Option is hardly limited. Mrs T says that AXA should have mentioned      
Guided Option in 2020, as it knew she was seeking to reduce the premium. She feels 
that she wasnt given the opportunity to look at alternatives and whilst she appreciates 
that AXA doesnt give advice about which policy to take out, she cant make an informed 
choice unless shes told whats available. 
The investigator listened to the recording of Mrs Ts call to AXA on renewal in 2020 but it 
didnt change his view. Mrs T asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:
As Mrs T is aware, AXA doesnt give advice about which policy she should take out.    
Its obliged to provide information thats clear, fair, and not misleading. Its for Mrs T 
to decide if the policy meets her requirements.  
Ive listened to the recording of Mrs Ts phone call with AXA on renewal in 2020.   
Mrs T said on more than one occasion that she didnt want to change the level of 
cover. In those circumstances, I dont think that AXA was at fault in failing to mention 
Guided Option, which is a change in the level of cover. 
The membership guide which was provided to Mrs T on renewal in 2020, set out the 
option Mrs T had chosen - Full Out-patient - and set out other options, including 
Guided Option. The guide said that if Mrs T wanted to add or remove options in the 
14 day cooling off period, she should contact AXA.
It appears to be common ground that AXA changed the information it gave to 
policyholders in 2021 but that doesnt change the outcome here. Thats because, 
based on what Ive seen and heard, Mrs T told AXA that she didnt want to change 
the level of her cover in 2020, so AXA wasnt obliged to go on to offer             
Guided Option in its phone call with her. And on renewal in 2020, AXA provided  
Mrs T with sufficient information to enable her to make an informed choice about 
whether the policy was right for her. I dont think that it needed to do any more.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
AXA to refund part of the premium she paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman