DRN-2968304
The complaint
As complaint is that Barclays Bank Plc failed to detect and prevent fraudulent transactions 
that were made from its business account by one of its staff. It says that because of 
Barclays failures, it has suffered a substantial loss.
  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat them at 
length here. Briefly, over a period of nearly two years, one of As staff - who was authorised 
by A to make payments on its behalf  fraudulently transferred a significant sum of money 
from As account to their personal account with another bank. 
The issue came to light when in April 2019 Barclays was alerted by the other bank about 
suspicious transfers from As account. 
Following this, a Freezing Injunction was obtained against that staff member and their 
assets, and a claim was issued against them by A. The court found the staff member guilty 
of fraud. This was then followed by a Proceeds of Crime Act hearing and the court ordered 
the fraudster to pay about £1,300. It seems that was the only amount they had available to 
pay back. As I understand it, civil proceedings have started to recover some of the money, 
but A says that it is not confident there will be any material recovery. To date we have no 
knowledge of any recovery by A.
A has made detailed submissions against Barclays. In summary it says that Barclays failed 
in its duty of care towards A. It says that Barclays was required to do all it could to keep their 
customers money safe. In this instance it failed to do so despite there being an abundance 
of warning signs, nor did it alert the directors of A at any material time until it was prompted 
by another bank.
Barclays insists that it has in place a robust mechanism to identify fraudulent activities and in 
this instance, there was no reason to suspect the transactions on As account.  The staff 
member was authorised to make payments on behalf of A. During the relevant period, they 
made in excess of 2,000 payments on behalf of A. The disputed transactions were mixed 
with genuine payments and in addition, the Device ID and IP addresses have been 
consistent across the activities. It was therefore reasonable for the bank to consider the 
payments as in keeping with the overall account activity.
Our investigator said that given its size, A should be considered as a small business 
complainant for the purpose of our jurisdiction. As a small business complainant it is eligible 
to bring a complaint to us but only about activities that occurred on or after 1 April 2019. He 
said that therefore we are only able to consider the alleged failure by Barclays to prevent the 
fraudulent transactions that took place on or after 1 April 2019. This is acknowledged by both 
parties.
Having considered the complaint, the investigator said that there was enough going on such 
that by 1 April 2019 Barclays ought to have had concerns that As account was being 
subjected to unusual activity and intervened. Had Barclays done so, it could have prevented 
the financial loss caused to A from the disputed transactions that took place since 1 April 
2019 (the ones we are able to consider).
The investigator then went on to consider whether A acted reasonably in the circumstances 
and concluded that there was contributory negligence on its part. So he said that the fairest 
outcome to this complaint would be for Barclays and A to share equal responsibility for the 
losses A suffered from 1 April 2019 onwards. 
Barclays said that it agrees to pay A 50% of the disputed transactions that took place since 
1 April 2019 together with interest, as recommended by the investigator. It said that the offer 
is made without acceptance of any liability and on a gesture of goodwill basis.
A, through its representative, said that it accepts the investigators findings except that A is 
50% liable for the losses accruing from 1 April 2019. In summary, it said that this is because: 
The staff member who committed the fraud was employed by A in a senior position and 
was tasked with overseeing the financial management of the company. As a small 
company, A did not have to manage its managers especially their most senior employee 
in the accounts department. Their work was overseen by the company accountants. 
They did not detect the theft. Indeed, Barclays suggested initially it could not be 
detected. 
A was entitled to rely on the assurance and reputation of Barclays and the information 
provided by Barclays. The bank failed to comply with their own terms. It was required to 
do all it can to keep the customers money safe and to carry out checks before 
payments are made. A was entitled to rely on that assurance. This does not imply that A 
was lax in its management of financial matters. The directors and accountants reviewed 
the bank statements of the companys account regularly. However, the statements 
themselves hid the theft from view due to not showing the account details to which the 
payments went to. Had the statements shown any details of the account paid, the 
accountants and/or directors could have quickly spotted the fraud. 
The fraudster provided fake invoices for a number of the entries. The names of the 
suppliers identified by them as payees were genuine suppliers. As a result, stock levels 
could not be readily reviewed to identify losses.
In the recent case of Singularis Holdings Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Limited 
(2019) where the directors knew the company was in dire financial trouble and had 
suspicions that there was fraud at play, the company was held liable by the court to only 
25%. As culpability is considerably less and so it rejects the finding it should be liable to 
50% of the losses.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator essentially for the 
same reasons. 
Its a matter for Barclays as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection systems and 
strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate. But where it is alleged that Barclays didnt do 
enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an alleged fraud, I will look into the 
circumstances of the case and decide, based on what I have seen, whether in that case it 
could have fairly and reasonably done more.
In this instance, I agree with the investigator that there was enough going on in As account 
that by 1 April 2019 the bank ought to have had concerns that the account was being 
subjected to unusual activity and therefore intervened, but it failed to do so. The investigator 
has provided detailed reasoning for this conclusion and there is nothing more for me to add 
in this regard. 
Had the bank done so, it is more likely that it could have prevented the financial loss to A 
arising from the disputed transactions that took place since 1 April 2019 (the ones we are 
able to consider).
I also agree with the investigator that A should bear some responsibility for this loss. I have 
carefully considered what A has said in this regard, including the reference to the Singularis 
case. In my view, to what extent the losses should be attributed to A is not an exact science. 
This is something that had to be decided in the circumstances of each case. For example, I 
might look at the complainants extent of responsibility differently if the fraud was detected 
say within two months of it starting to happen compared to a situation where it goes 
undetected for a considerable period of time.
In this instance the investigator has recommended that Barclays and A should share equal 
responsibility for the losses A suffered in April 2019. Having considered what had happened 
in this case, I think it is a fair recommendation. I say this because:
The fraudulent transactions have been happening over a sizeable period of time. The 
amount involved is also substantial. So, it would be reasonable to expect that the company 
noticed this at some point, but it didnt until the matter came to light in April 2019. I 
appreciate that it is hard when one of their trusted senior managers committed the fraud, but 
I am unable to accept the argument that A did not have to manage its senior managers. It is 
reasonable to expect that they too had some oversight.
A says that it (or its accountants) couldnt identify the fraud as the payees account numbers 
werent shown on the bank statement. It says that had the statements shown the account 
numbers, it would have spotted that a lot of payments were being made to the same account 
and would have investigated it. However, it is not unusual that banks do not disclose payees 
account details on the bank statements, for example due to security concerns. Also, this 
information could easily have been checked online. So, I am not persuaded that the fact that 
the bank statements did not include payees account numbers should negate any 
contributory negligence on As part.
Also, as I understand it, many of the transactions were carried out using fake invoices. It 
seems to me that a fraud of this nature is something a firms risk management and control 
systems could have picked up, especially where the frequency and the value is high as in 
this case.
I am not saying that A ought to have picked all this up as soon as the fraud started 
happening. In fact I dont have to make a finding as to precisely when A ought to have 
spotted the fraud. The issue here for me is simply to decide what is the fair way to split the 
liability in respect of the disputed transactions that happened since 1 April 2019.  I think by 
this time, like the bank, A too had the opportunity to have spotted the fraud, but it failed to do 
so.  As I said, this is not an exact science, however for the reasons given, especially 
considering the length of time this had been going on by April 2019, I am satisfied that the fair outcome therefore would be for Barclays and A share equal responsibility for the losses 
A suffered in April 2019. 
As I understand it, the loss to A from the disputed transactions since 1 April 2019 was about 
£46,000 over ten transactions. So Barclays should refund 50% of this amount to A, together 
with interest. 
The investigator has said that, in return, Barclays could ask A for some sort of indemnity to 
the effect that, in the event A is able to recoup all of its losses from the fraudster or from 
some other third party, to the extent there is a double recovery A should return it to Barclays. 
Whilst A is initiating some civil proceedings, it appears highly unlikely that it would be able to 
recoup anywhere near the amount it lost. Nevertheless, I agree that there shouldnt be a 
double recovery and an indemnity to that effect doesnt appear unreasonable. But that is not 
something the ombudsman service could be involved in. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons given. In full and final 
settlement of the complaint, Barclays Bank Plc should reimburse 50% of the disputed 
payments made out of As account from 1 April 2019. It should also pay simple interest on 
this amount at 8% per year, calculated from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman