DRN-2911669
The complaint
Mr R complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat was irresponsible in its lending 
to him.
What happened
Mr R was provided with a £500 loan by Cashfloat in 2020. The loan was repayable over 
three monthly instalments. Mr R says that at the time of the loan he was in a desperate 
situation with a very low credit score and several other outstanding loans. He says that had 
adequate checks been carried out Cashfloat would have realised the loan was unaffordable 
for him.
Cashfloat issued its final response to Mr Rs complaint in February 2021. It didnt uphold 
Mr Rs complaint saying that before the loan was provided it carried out robust affordability 
and credit worthiness checks in line with the industry guidance. It says the information 
gathered showed Mr R had sufficient funds to comfortably cover the required loan 
repayments.
Mr R didnt agree with Cashfloats response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Cashfloat to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And he didnt think there was anything in the information provided or the 
information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which meant further verification was 
required.
Mr R didnt accept our adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R was provided with only one loan by Cashfloat. Before the loan was provided 
information about Mr Rs income and expenses was gathered. His income figure of £2,500 
was verified. He declared monthly expenses of £720. Cashfloat has explained that it checks 
expenses figures against an external data source and in this case the expenses declared 
were considered reasonable. The monthly loan repayment amounts were just under £230. 
As this was Mr Rs first loan and having considered the loan repayment amounts compared 
to Mr Rs monthly income I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. Mr Rs 
income was verified, and his expenses considered reasonable and I havent seen anything 
from the information provided that I think meant Cashfloat was required to carry out any 
further affordability checks.
I note Mr Rs comments about his credit score. However, having looked at the information 
provided by Cashfloat from its credit check at the time, I do not find that this raised concerns 
that meant further checks were required.  
Therefore, as the checks carried out suggested the loan repayments were affordable I do not 
find that I can say Cashfloat was wrong to provide this loan.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Western Circle Ltd trading as 
Cashfloat.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman