DRN-4238108
The complaint
D, who is represented by Mrs D  its director, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
has made multiple mistakes with international payments it wanted to make meaning it has 
lost clients, business and stock.
What happened
D opened a business account with NatWest in January 2021.
Between August 2021 and November 2021 D made a number of international payments to a 
supplier with whom it had agreed its first deal following the pandemic. D says that NatWest 
made multiple mistakes which severely damaged its reputation as a trustworthy, capable 
and professional business. D says that the supplier no longer wants to do business with it as 
a result, that a container that was due to be shipped to it has been destroyed and that it has 
incurred expenses too.
D made several complaints to NatWest about the issues it had with its international 
payments. NatWest accepted that it had made a number of mistakes and offered to pay 
compensation totalling £1,400. D wasnt happy with NatWests responses  including the 
way its complaints were handled  and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ds complaints and, in summary, said that they didnt 
think NatWest had to do more because the compensation it had offered was fair in the 
circumstances. Our investigator looked into Ds complaints as a number of separate 
complaints.
D wasnt happy with our investigators conclusions saying that they appeared to have missed 
a number of key points. So, I was asked to look into one of Ds complaints.
Having looked into one of Ds complaints, I decided to issue a provisional decision so both 
parties have an opportunity to make further submissions should they want to do so and to 
give Mrs D more time to gather additional evidence, having already sent my provisional 
thoughts to her. That provisional decision explained in detail my thoughts including what I 
could and couldnt award compensation for, and that I intended to deal with all of Ds 
complaints in one decision. NatWest accepted my provisional decision and sent evidence to 
show that it had already paid D £1,400 in compensation. Mrs D let me know that shed 
received the evidence she wanted to send me and that shed forward it to me shortly. That 
was four weeks ago, and Ive still not received the evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that NatWest had accepted that it had made mistakes  the 
most obvious one being in relation to cut off times. I also said that I was satisfied that D 
didnt always get the faxed instructions to NatWest before the cut off time it believed was in 
force. So, I didnt think either side was solely responsible for the delays that occurred. I also 
said that once D knew NatWests processes that I thought that was something it needed to 
factor into its thinking. More importantly, I said, based on the evidence Id seen, that I agreed 
that the £1,400 NatWest had paid in compensation for all the distress and inconvenience 
caused for the mistakes it had made was fair and reasonable. I said the only question I had 
to still decide was whether or not I should make an award for losses and expenses D says it 
had incurred. D hadnt sent evidence of those losses and expenses to NatWest when it 
asked and hadnt sent any such evidence to our investigator. In the circumstances, I said 
that Id need evidence of those losses and expenses before I could consider making an 
award for them as there wasnt enough information on the file to make such an award.
We still havent heard back from Mrs D, despite having given her several extensions of time 
and despite her letting us know that she had received the information wed asked for. I 
explained to Mrs D that Id issue a final decision based on the information we have if we 
didnt hear back by the deadlines we gave  deadlines that I also said I was happy to extend 
if she needed more time. So thats what Im now going to do  decide this complaint based 
on the information we have. On that basis, I remain of the view that the compensation 
NatWest has already paid is fair and reasonable and that it doesnt need to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid £1,400 in 
compensation to settle Ds complaints and that this is fair in all the circumstances. Im not, 
therefore, going to require National Westminster Bank Plc to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman