DRN-3668248
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the delays he has experienced in trying to arrange for his two 
accounts to be transferred away from ITI Capital (ITI) after his accounts were migrated over 
from a previous firm. ITI hasnt responded to any of his correspondence or phone calls, nor 
provided any reason for the account not being transferred despite Mr As numerous attempts 
to contact it. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr As share accounts (a trading account and an ISA), which he held with a 
previous firm that had gone into administration, were transferred over to ITI. Mr A didnt want 
to hold his accounts with ITI. He wanted to transfer his holdings to another platform and 
transfer cash to his bank account. 
After some initial problems because of one of his accounts not being set up and the other 
not having log in details, Mr A sent his instructions for the transfer to ITI on 4 August. The 
business he had asked for his accounts to be transferred to has said ITI failed to pick up 
requests for the transfer on 7 and 21 August. 
Mr A told us he is a day trader who relied on the income from his investments and the hold 
ups at ITI had impacted his ability to provide for him and his family. 
Mr A complained to ITI on 13 August to which ITI responded on 7 October. It said;
The delay in onboarding and providing access to the trading platform was 
unacceptable and communication with Mr A was subject to unreasonable delay. 
The transfer requests had been successfully logged and were awaiting processing. 
As a result of taking on the number of clients from the predecessor business there 
was a significant backlog causing delays. 
Mr A could trade over the phone if he wished. 
It offered its apologies and £60 for the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the response so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
To put the matter right Mr A wanted financial compensation which he said amounted to 
£4,136 because of the fall in share prices during the transfer process. He wanted the 
transfers completed as well as compensation for ITIs failure in its fiduciary duty, lack of 
customer support and IT systems failures.
After Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, he said that further to him 
threatening ITI with legal action via a letter of intent to commence legal proceedings on        
7 September 2020 it completed the transfers of cash on 15 September and shares on        
16 October 2020 which he sold on 29 October. He said he incurred a significant loss in the 
value of his shares as well as additional legal costs of £600 plus the stress it caused him. 
The investigator who considered Mr As complaint said the following:
The investigator thought ITIs offer for the poor service Mr A had received should be 
increased to £250. 
Mr As contact with the administrator of the predecessor firm in July 2020 suggested 
it was always Mr As intention to transfer away from ITI. Mr A had emailed and 
phoned ITI about access to his account and ITI was aware of his plan to transfer to 
another provider. 
The investigator noted that Mr A continued emailing ITI throughout September and 
October, the transfer requests from the recipient broker were not responded to and 
completion dates were missed. The recipient broker also did more to escalate the 
transfer because of mis-match in ID details. 
Mr A had sold his shares in October. He said he had wanted to trade on 5 August 
and 15/16 September when the share price had bounced but was unable to contact 
ITIs trading desk. Mr A wanted to be compensated for the loss in value of his shares.
The investigator was satisfied there was no doubt ITI failed to meet both industry and 
its own deadline standards when processing and completing the transfer.
She thought Mr A should be awarded interest at a rate of 8% on the date the cash 
transfers should have been completed which was five days after the request on        
4 August  11 August 2020  to the date the money was actually received  which 
she believed to be 15 September 2020. 
She didnt think Mr A should be compensated for the loss Mr A has said he suffered 
because of the fall in the value of his shares. She couldnt see any emails confirming 
a sale order or an indication of a desire to sell. There wasnt sufficient evidence to 
support that ITI was given a sale order, and it was ignored. It wouldnt be fair to 
expect ITI to know Mr A wanted to sell his shares rather than transfer them as he had 
requested. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. In his response, briefly, he said;
Mr A would only have been able to trade by phone or via a secure broker account. It 
was clear he was trying to sell his shares as evidenced by  and not limited to  his 
call logs, him asking ITI in an email for a direct number to the dealing desk and 
asking for a broker to call him back.
Other consumers were having the same issues with ITI. Mr A provided external 
correspondence and media reports. 
ITIs operations were a shambles and services non-existent.
It was only because Mr A took legal action that prevented further losses to his 
holdings. It was a time sensitive issue.
The investigator wrote again to Mr A;
She reiterated her opinion about legal fees and overall, her view remained the same.
Her role was to consider Mr As complaint and wouldnt consider other consumers 
experiences.
The investigator didnt doubt that Mr A would have sold his shares if he had been 
given the opportunity, but she couldnt see that ITI had been given a specific sale 
instruction and then didnt carry it out. She couldnt consider this with the benefit of 
hindsight.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. Mr A 
provided some further comments, briefly; Mr A had provided evidence of clear-cut instruction to sell his shares  he had 
provided a copy of his phone logs.
If ITI had given him an avenue by which he could have given the sale instructions he 
would have done so. 
He had concerns about a manufactured terms of service document provided by ITI.
ITIs failure to carry out instruction was calculated to stop clients from leaving. He 
referred to action taken by the regulator.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im going 
to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved reasonably however I think the 
suggested payment of interest for the time Mr A was out of pocket and the £250 
compensation recommended is broadly fair and reasonable. 
I very much recognise Mr As strength of feeling about his complaint. Its very clear he is, 
and has been, extremely frustrated by the process. Ive considered the submissions he has 
made very carefully. And I hope he wont think I am being discourteous by not addressing all 
of the points he has made in any great detail. Ive kept my focus in this decision on the core 
matters to the complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Mr As inability to trade
Mr A held one shareholding each in his trading account and ISA account. It was the same 
company invested in both accounts.
Mr A said his calls to ITI went unanswered. He said that after holding for ten to 15 minutes 
they were disconnected automatically. He has told us he wanted to place a trade in his 
shares on 5 and 6 August 2020, and 15 and 16 September 2020. And I also note from an 
email he sent to ITI on 14 August that he referred to 28 July as well. 
In his email to ITI he said I rang your dealing servicenumerous times on Jul 28, Aug 5 and 
6 to try and place limit ordersI would appreciate if a direct number to dealing traders could 
be provided so securities could be sold at prices sought. 
Mr A has sent us call logs for his phone and I can see he tried to call ITI three times on      
28 July, three times each on 5 and 6 August, and 15 and 16 September. But in his email to 
ITI he refers to wanting to place a limit order rather than just sell the shares, however, he 
didnt say what that limit price would be so theres no evidence he wanted to place a firm sell 
order albeit at a specified limit price. 
Ive also looked at the daily share price highs and lows from June to October 2020, the latter 
being when Mr A sold his shares. On the dates that Mr A has said he wanted to place a limit 
order the prices were;High £ Low £
28 July 187.30 181.30
5 August 196.20 183.90
6 August 191.34 180.34
15 September 188.34 182.90
16 September 188.24 184.42
The highest share price for the June to October was on 5 August. The fact that Mr A wanted 
to place a limit order  rather than to sell at best  suggests to me that he wasnt satisfied 
with that share price. He was looking for something higher. 
But that was the share price high for that period, so even though Mr A hasnt said what his 
limit order price would have been I can only assume it would have been higher than 
196.20p. And that limit price wouldnt have been reached in any event. 
I do recognise how frustrated Mr A must have been in not being able to place his limit order 
when he wanted to. But without firm evidence of the price he wanted to obtain  and which I 
can only assume was higher than the prices Ive quoted above  it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to consider this part of Mr As complaint and the shares prices he could 
potentially have obtained with the benefit of hindsight. And without firm evidence of the price 
that Mr A sought, and it being achievable, I cant agree that ITI is responsible for the loss   
Mr A has said he suffered. 
Reimbursement of Mr As legal costs
On 7 September 2020 Mr As solicitor issued a letter of intent to commence legal 
proceedings to ITI. Mr A has said that this produced the intended effect as ITI initiated 
settlement with his recipient broker. 
During our investigators phone call with Mr A about this point she explained that Mr A could 
have brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for free and it wouldnt incur legal 
costs. She also said it was Mr As decision to incur those costs when he contacted his 
solicitor. 
I think its clear Mr A was so frustrated with the delays that he felt it was the appropriate 
course of action and now wants the costs repaid to him. Mr A has told us he is a day trader 
and emphasised that the transfer was time sensitive. While I may understand why Mr A felt 
that was all he could do, the delays experienced by Mr A needed to be put right in any event. 
And despite the letter being issued the transfer didnt complete until five weeks later because 
of other administrative issues which werent overcome any quicker because of the letter. So, 
I think the legal costs incurred were incidental to that process.  
And like the investigator, Im of the view that Mr A was aware of the costs he would be 
incurring in advance of pursuing legal action. It was his own decision to do so and without 
the knowledge that he would be able to reclaim those costs. So, it seems to be a risk he was 
willing to take by paying for those costs up front.
Mr A has said it was only as a result of him taking legal action that the transfer completed 
when it did. But I havent seen anything to suggest the legal action was the only reason the 
transfer completed, and, in any event, it was a cost Mr A chose to incur rather than 
something that was necessary. So, I wont be making an award for reimbursement of those 
legal costs. The service provided by ITI
It is very clear from Mr As submissions, and the documents he has provided  he has 
referred to many emails and phone calls  that Mr As experience with ITI has been a poor 
one. Mr A suffered significant delays throughout  from his initial request to transfer the 
account in August 2020 through to trying the get the actual transfer completed in October. 
And during the transfer process Mr A considered selling his shares but was unable to get 
through to the dealing desk despite many attempts to call. 
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But and as already acknowledged by ITI, I think its likely that the new 
additional accounts and investments will inevitably have had an impact on ITIs capacity and 
ability to deal with new customers and increased requests. And it seems evident there were 
some IT issues. 
Putting things right
That being said, its clear Mr A has had a very difficult time during the whole process and Im 
sure feels stressed and exhausted by the whole affair. The investigator acknowledged this, 
by increasing the offer made by ITI from £60 that had previously been made to £250.
As Ive said above, Ive carefully considered Mr As points and I am aware he feels strongly 
about his complaint. But I have also borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for 
distress caused. Clearly, it must have been very frustrating for Mr A not being able to take 
the action he wanted to with his accounts. ITI initially offered £60 but taking all of the above 
into account, I think the £250 as recommended by the investigator is a fairer reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A. 
The investigator also recommended that ITI should pay 8% interest for the time Mr A was 
out of pocket  so interest at a rate of 8% on the date the cash transfers should have been 
completed which was five days after the request on 4 August  11 August 2020  to the date 
the money was actually received. And I think this is a fair award for the time Mr A didnt have 
access to his money.
The investigator thought cash was received on 15 September as referred to by Mr A in 
response to some questions he was asked. But I note his bank statement he sent to us 
states receipt of cash was 16 October 2020 as did his letter of complaint. So, I think this is 
more likely the date of receipt but if there is any doubt, this needs to be agreed between    
Mr A and ITI before payment of the interest award is made. 
No doubt Mr A wont be happy that I havent fully upheld his complaint, but I hope I have 
been able to explain to him how and why I have reached the decision that I have done. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint about the service he received from ITI Capital Limited.                
ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr A for the trouble and upset he has been caused and 
interest on the delayed cash payment as Ive detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman