DRN-2438567
The complaint
Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W took out the policy at the same time as applying for a credit card in December 1998.
The policy cost no more than 70p per £100 of Mr Ws outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr W that the policy was optional, and it had to get his 
consent before applying PPI to his account. Mr W says he would not have agreed to take 
PPI. Barclaycard says Mr W chose to take PPI and its provided a copy of his application 
form for me to review.
On the application form, there is a section about PPI and two separate boxes to tick either 
yes or no for the policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left blank. 
Mr W has signed the application form, confirming that he agrees with the selections on it. So, 
I think Mr W was aware he had a choice and that he chose to take PPI at the time. The sale 
took place a long time ago  some 23 years. So, its understandable if Mr W doesnt 
remember this now.
Barclaycard has treated this as an advised sale, which puts more responsibility on 
Barclaycard  it means it had to check the policy was suitable for Mr W. And based on what 
Mr W has told us about his circumstances, the policy appears to have been right for him. I 
say this because:
From the information Ive seen, Mr W was eligible for the policy. 
Mr W says he had asthma at the time of sale, and Ive thought carefully about this 
carefully given all pre-existing medical conditions are excluded by this policy. But the 
way Mr W has described his condition makes me think it was well controlled. Mr W 
says he takes medication for the condition, but that its nothing major  he hasnt said 
anything to suggest it led him to take time off of work, or that it had any other impact 
on his day-to-day life. So, I dont think his condition meant the policy wasnt right for 
him.
Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the other terms that might have 
made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having unusual employment 
circumstances. So, I dont think Barclaycard was wrong to recommend the policy to 
Mr W and I think the policy could have been useful to him if he developed any other 
conditions that he might have needed to use the policy for. 
Mr W initially told us he would not have received any sick pay, but hes since 
confirmed that he was entitled to six months full pay if he was off sick from work. He 
also says he had £1,000 in savings that he could have used to make his repayments. 
But the policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay Mr W received and 
potentially for longer. Mr W could also have claimed again subject to a requalification 
period. The PPI would have enabled Mr W to use his savings for any other financial 
commitments he may have had at what could be a difficult time. So, I think the policy 
could have been useful to Mr W if he fell on hard times. 
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mr W at the time 
of sale. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr W, Barclaycard also needed to give 
him enough information about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr W about the terms and cost of the policy 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I dont think better information would have made a difference to his 
decision to buy it.
So, overall, I dont think this PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman