DRN-2151700
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold with a 
store card in 1996. The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but a company 
called AXA France IARD is responsible for answering Mrs Ks complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
What happened
The card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI was 
added on to the card and Mrs K says she doesnt remember being told much about it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs K disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So 
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the 
applicant was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mrs K filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited her to either tick - 
or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Mrs Ks form was ticked at this point, so I think this shows that she did want PPI when she 
applied for her card because she signed the form. Because I also think she would have had 
access to the terms and conditions as Ive described above, I think she duly consented to 
the PPI cover when she signed at this point. Mrs K says ticking the box didnt imply she 
wanted the policy. But Im afraid I disagree. The box asked if she wanted this type of cover 
and I think shed have been equally free to not have ticked this section asking for the PPI.
I also think Mrs K would have later seen PPI periodically appearing on her card account 
statements. If shed not wanted the policy, she would have been able to ask what the 
charges were for. Unfortunately, theres no evidence Mrs K did this.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mrs K to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge 
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Mrs K had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
Mrs K told us she had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs K says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ive checked that Mrs K was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in 
addition to any other means Mrs K had in place at the time.
So although I cant say why Mrs K decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mrs Ks complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Mrs K specifically selected the 
PPI and had access nearby to the information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules. 
And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information would have 
changed how Mrs K acted. 
Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman