DRN-2097067
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
withdrew their mortgage offer on the day the funds were due to be released (for completion 
the following day).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020, the findings of which stated:
The complaint relates to a mortgage application Mr and Mrs S made to Tesco. On the 
face of it that seemed a standard application, and Tesco accepted Mr and Mrs S 
application, explanations and supporting evidence in good faith. Unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs S their application was selected for a further check just before completion and 
that check raised concerns that the application hadnt been made in good faith as the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs S didnt match information that was publicly available.
Mr and Mrs S have queried why that check was undertaken so late in the process. The 
simple answer to that is that Tesco, quite simply, had no reason to undertake that check 
earlier based on what Mr and Mrs S had told it. It was only because the application was 
selected for a deeper dive that the discrepancies came to light.
Were unable to disclose all the information to Mr and Mrs S as its commercially sensitive 
but having reviewed it all I agree that there was no reason for Tesco to do those checks 
earlier in the process. But the information that came to light from the deeper dive would be 
a serious concern on a mortgage application.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Tesco was allowed to withdraw the offer 
despite it being so close to completion, and it did nothing wrong in doing so. Normally that 
would be the end of things, but our investigator thought £100 compensation was fair due 
to the lateness of the withdrawal, whereas Mr and Mrs S want substantially more. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether any compensation is due for any potential customer service 
failings.
The basis of Mr and Mrs S claim is the costs they say they incurred due to the mortgage 
offer being withdrawn. Whilst I would possibly ask a lender to pay some small 
compensation due to the lateness of notification of withdrawal and costs incurred in a case 
like this, here Im not going to. Such compensation would really only be due if the 
complainant wasnt responsible for some of the issues. I dont think that is the case here.
Relating to the costs incurred for the deposit weve had the following submissions from 
Mr and Mrs S:
Complaint form: We failed to complete as it is almost impossible to get a mortgage 
within two weeks and lost our balance £35,570.60 less the £1500 stamp duty. £40 
deposit on a rented van, £515 interest to the seller, £365 canceled removals from the 
seller. £231 in phone calls from Mexico. Plus cutting our paid for holiday short. 2 
weeks off work each and a month of extreme stress.
Email to our investigator: They Withdrew the mortgage with less than 24 hours to go 
before completion causing immense street and a large deposit loss of £35,570.60.
Email to our investigator: This is correct I am out of pocket £35,570.60. This is 
proven on the bank statement with the two outgoing transactions.
Following this our investigator went to verify that information with Mr and Mrs S solicitor, 
and the solicitor confirmed the deposit hadnt, in fact, been lost as the purchase had 
completed with the residual funds coming from a different lender.
When that information was put to Mr and Mrs S they told us:
We were unable to get the money in time (I have several letters and emails that 
suggest this) in the end we were unable to buy it and someone else bought using our 
money (rather than it going to waste).
We currently rent it from them at £651 a month but do not own a house from this and 
have subsequently still lost the deposit. We are now saving again to buy a house of 
our own.
When our investigator asked why the property was therefore registered at the Land 
Registry with Mr and Mrs S as the owners, they said the person that bought it put it in their 
names.
From this point it seems Mr and Mrs S accepted we were aware they hadnt lost the 
deposit of £35,000 they were trying to claim from Tesco, so they then said they instead 
wanted to claim other costs involved. They detailed these to be:
£1500 arrangement fee from Santander Cutting a Holiday short
EE phone bills from Mexico
£500 mortgage broker fee
When asked for proof we were sent a mortgage offer from Santander (in Mrs S mothers 
name and secured on her residential property) which tied in with the purchase of the 
property but the arrangement fee for that was £999, not £1,500 (and it gave a £250 
cashback which hasnt been deducted from the claimed losses).
We were also sent booking confirmation for the holiday which shows it was booked on 20 
May 2019 for a departure on 23 May 2019 and return on 6 June 2019 (the day the 
mortgage was withdrawn). Mr and Mrs S had been very clear in their submissions:
Plus cutting our paid for holiday short
Cutting a Holiday short
They even went further to say they flew back (the implication being that was earlier than 
booked) and that cost them extra money
We flew back from Mexico which cut our holiday short (costing money).
When our investigator asked for evidence of the holiday being cut short Mr and Mrs S 
replied Sorry I believe I may have misworded that, we were still stranded in Mexico but 
ofcourse the last 3/4 days were ruined as we were so stressed by the mortgage. Even that was disingenuous as it would have been impossible for the last 3/4 days to have been 
ruined due to this when it only happened on the day they flew home.
The final costs Mr and Mrs S have tried to claim is for a £231 phone bill they say was 
incurred by them phoning the UK from Mexico. But there are many problems with the 
evidence theyve provided for that;
the bill doesnt cover the period in question, it was for July 2019,
the bulk of the costs were due to someone phoning to and from Lithuania,
the phone bill is in the name of the company that Mr S claimed he sold in October 
2018.
Due to the issues in this case I am not inclined to uphold it or ask that any compensation 
be paid.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party added anything further.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything carefully and considered the case afresh, my opinion hasnt 
changed. Ive reached the same findings - and for the same reasons - as I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no order or award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman