DRN-1680913
 
The complaint
 Mrs D, as administrator of the estate of Mr D, complains with the help of her IFA that Saxo 
Capital Markets UK Limited (SCML) delayed the sale of shares of her late husband.
What happened
Mr D sadly died in April 2018 without leaving a will and Mrs D was appointed as the 
administrator of his estate under a Grant of letters of Administration. She contacted SCML 
originally in April 2018 to inform it of Mr Ds death.
She next contacted it in August 2018 and there was reference to transfer of the shares. She 
then asked if she could sell some of the shares and keep some in her name on 14 
September 2018. The person she spoke to said he would get back to her about that on 17 
September 2018 but didnt do so. There were further telephone calls and email 
correspondence which ended with the shares all being sold on 11 October 2018.
In response to the complaint SCML said it accepted that it had failed to process the claim in 
a timely manner and that there had been a breakdown in process. It explained that the 
standard process when a client dies is for their account to be liquidated and the proceeds 
paid to the personal representatives or for the shares in the account to be transferred to an 
account in the name of the personal representatives. 
But it said that it wont take action without a clear written instruction and that this was only 
received on 8 October 2018 after which it said it acted promptly with the shares being sold 
on 11 October 2018.
SCML said that it was willing to pay the difference between the closing price of the shares on 
29 August 2018 and the actual sale price on 11 October 2018 - which amounted to USD 
67,392. It explained this was on the basis that Mrs D shouldve been prompted to give a 
clear instruction on what she wanted to do with the shares when she contacted it at the end 
of August 2018, although it also noted her intentions were unclear at that time.
Mrs D didnt accept the offer by SCML and referred her complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that SCML 
had confirmed to her that it wasnt possible to sell some shares but keep others and she 
thought Mrs D shouldve been told that on 17 September 2018. 
He said that if Mrs D had been told that she wouldve instructed SCML to sell the shares at 
that time and on the basis it takes two working days to action a withdrawal it should pay the 
difference between the closing share price on 19 September 2018 and the actual sale price 
on 11 October 2018.
SCML didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said that it was grossly unfair for it to pay USD 
151,488 based on 17 September 2018 as the date Mrs D wouldve requested sale because:It had received no written instruction from Mrs D on 17 September 2018 so was 
under no duty to sell.
It isnt its standard practice to accept instructions to liquidate shares over the 
telephone, especially where the matter involved an estate and such a large sum of 
money.
Based on the conversation with Mrs D on 13 September 2018 Mrs D was still 
considering whether to transfer or sell the shares.
SCML didnt receive any instruction in writing until 12 October 2018.
The offer it made of USD 67,392 was more than reasonable given the ambiguity 
surrounding the instruction received from Mrs D up until the actual written instruction 
received in October 2018.
Mrs D initially agreed with the adjudicator but then the IFA said she didnt agree based on 
SCMLs response. The IFA said that Mrs D made it clear on 14 September 2018 that if it was 
too difficult to keep some shares and sell others she would sell all of them. He said that if 
SCML had made clear that she couldnt do both she wouldve instructed it to sell all the 
shares. 
The IFA said that although Mrs D had been promised a call on 17 September 2018 she 
didnt get a call until 20 September 2018 and this is the date which should be used to 
determine when the shares shouldve been sold. On that basis he said that the date of 25 
September 2018, which was the date he originally stated should be used, is the right date. 
As the parties havent agreed with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the adjudicator for reasons I will explain.
Having considered the documents and listened to the telephone calls between Mrs D and 
SCML I think it is reasonably clear that she wasnt provided with the service she shouldve 
been by SCML as it acknowledged in its final response letter. 
Im satisfied that if Mrs D had been given the information she shouldve been when she 
shouldve been given it that the shares wouldve been sold before 11 October 2018. SCML 
has referred to only getting written instructions on 12 October 2018. 
Mrs D actually returned the withdrawal form on 8 October 2018 but SCML contacted her on 
12 October 2018 asking her to complete the withdrawal form by ticking the box to close the 
account and she then returned the form duly completed.
Having considered the evidence, I think it is very clear that Mrs D wasnt given the 
information she shouldve been given when she shouldve been given it and at one point was 
also given the wrong information. I am satisfied that if Mrs D had been given the information 
she shouldve been given in a timely way it is more likely than not she wouldve provided 
written instructions to sell the shares sooner. Given this finding, what I have to decide is 
when I think she wouldve given those instructions.
SCML has suggested that Mrs D was still considering whether to transfer the shares as of 13 
September 2018  although I think it actually means 14 September 2018 when she 
telephoned to find out how long it would take to process things.Having considered that call I dont think it shows she was undecided about whether she 
wanted to sell all the shares or transfer them all. I think it is clear that what Mrs D was 
undecided about was whether she wanted to retain some of the shares whilst selling the rest 
- something that SCML has now confirmed she couldnt have done.
I acknowledge that in the call when asked how many shares she wanted to transfer and how 
many she wanted to sell she said she didnt know. I dont this means that there was some 
possibility of her retaining all of the shares at this point. I think it is clear that this was not 
something she wanted to do given she clarified in the call that what she wanted to know was 
how easy or difficult it was to keep some shares and that if it was too difficult she would just 
cash them all in.
So I am satisfied that it is more likely than not she had already decided that she wasnt going 
to retain all the shares. And given SCML has now said there was no possibility of keeping 
only some of the shares I think it is more likely than not that she wouldve instructed SCML 
to sell all the shares if she had been told this.
I have considered when she shouldve been told she couldnt keep just some of the shares. 
SCML has confirmed it wasnt possible to do a partial transfer of a share holding and that 
this was the normal positon. 
Given this I wouldve expected the person Mr D spoke with on 14 September 2018 to have 
been aware of this and been able to give her this information at the time of the call. But if he 
did need to check that I can see no reason he wasnt able to do so by the time he was due to 
call her back on 17 September 2018. 
I note that when he did eventually speak to Mrs D on 20 September 2018 he then provided 
her with the wrong information, as he said she was able to do a partial transfer/partial sale. I 
dont know whether he had been given the wrong information by someone else or 
misunderstood what he had been told. But either way that doesnt change my opinion that he 
shouldve been in a position to provide her with the right information on 17 September 2018 
and should have called Mrs D on that day as he had promised he would.
So the question is what then wouldve happened if she had been given the right information 
on that date?
If Mrs D had been told on 17 September 2017 that she had to either sell all the shares or 
transfer them I think it is more likely than not she wouldve then decided to sell them  given 
she had already indicated in the telephone call of 14 September 2017 that if there was any 
difficulty in doing a partial transfer she would simply cash them all in. 
I can see no reason that Mrs D would not have asked for the withdrawal form to be sent to 
her the same day, or any reason she would not have then proceeded to complete this and 
return it on 17 September 2018, given there wouldve been no ambiguity over what she 
could or could not do with the shares. SCML has confirmed that it allows two days for 
dealing with a request for withdrawal. This would take the sale of shares to 19 September 
2018. 
I note Mrs D didnt tick the box to close the account when she actually sent the withdrawal 
form in October 2018 so it is possible she wouldve made the same mistake if she had 
completed the form in September. But there is no way of knowing if she wouldve done this 
and I think it is fair and reasonable to use 19 September 2018 as the date the shares 
shouldve been sold.Both Mrs Ds IFA and SCML have argued for different dates to be used as the date the 
shares shouldve been sold and I will comment briefly on the dates suggested.
The IFA argued on behalf of Mrs D that the date that should be used for sale of the shares is 
25 September 2018. This is on the basis that the call that shouldve taken place on 17 
September 2018 didnt happen until 20 September 2018 and that this is the date that Mrs D 
shouldve been told she couldnt do a partial transfer.
But I think SCML shouldve called Mrs D on 17 September 2018, as I have already said, and 
that this is the date that she shouldve been told she couldnt do a partial transfer. Im not 
persuaded that it is fair and reasonable to use a later date which is based on the failure to 
call Mrs D on the day she shouldve been called. 
SCML based its offer on redress on the difference between the share price on 11 October 
2018 when the shares were actually sold and the close share price on 29 August 2018. It 
has used this latter date on the basis that Mrs D shouldve been prompted to give a clear 
instruction on what she wanted to do when she contacted it towards the end of August 2018. 
I think SCMLs suggestion it shouldve given a prompt for clear instructions is based on the 
confusion that arose later. Im not persuaded that SCML were required to say to Mrs D that 
she needed to give a clear instruction when she contacted it in August 2018. It had no 
reason to think at that time she would not do so. 
And even if she had been told she had to give a clear instruction at that time Im not 
persuaded she had decided what she wanted to do at that point, and I note SCML 
acknowledged in its FRL when making an offer that Mrs Ds intentions at that point were 
unclear. So Im not satisfied that a date in August 2018 is appropriate to use for calculating 
redress.
Putting things right
SCML should calculate the difference between the sale price of the shares on the date they 
were actually sold in October 2018 with the closing price on the 19 September 2018 and pay 
the difference in value of the shares to the estate of Mr D, together with simple interest at 8% 
on what it calculates is payable from 19 September 2018 to date of settlement.
As interest was not included in the adjudicator's view I asked SCML for any comments it had 
about paying interest. It said that if I awarded more than it had offered interest should only 
be payable on the difference between what I awarded and the offer it had made in response 
to the complaint, as it was always willing to make an interim payment towards any award. 
But whilst I note what it has said I see no reason not to award interest in this case as we 
would normally do when someone has been kept out of their money. The offer SCML made 
in its final response letter was not an open offer but was made on a full and final settlement 
basis. If Mrs D had accepted this we would not have considered her complaint. It wasnt 
unreasonable for her to reject the offer and to refer her complaint to us.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited 
has to calculate and pay redress as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2020.Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman