DRN-3564236
The complaint
Mr K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (Shop 
Direct) irresponsibly gave him two running account credit facilities that he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2014, Mr K applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. He was given an 
initial credit limit of £750. There were no credit limit increases on the account. After 
sustained arrears from November 2015 onwards, the account was passed to a third party 
debt collection agency in June 2016. 
In January 2015, Mr K applied for another credit account with Shop Direct. He was given 
an initial credit limit of £650. There were no credit limit increases on the account. After 
sustained arrears from December 2015 onwards, the account was passed to a third party 
debt collection agency in June 2016. 
In 2020, Mr K complained to Shop Direct to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for him because they werent affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mr Ks complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr K has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Shop Direct has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. I have considered the credit information from the time the lending decisions were 
made. For that reason I have not been able to place the weight on Mr Ks subsequent credit 
records that Mr K wished me to. 
Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr K with 
credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to 
think the initial credit limit or the credit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were reasonably modest, the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit would have been relatively modest. Ive seen insufficient evidence 
to think that there had been lots of adverse information on Mr Ks credit file immediately 
before each lending decision was made.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr K to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Mr K was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what Shop Direct could 
see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently 
than it did. 
I know that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr K to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman