DRN-1660877
Complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a third party says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Capital Ones records show he bought the PPI in March 2004 over the internet with a new 
credit card.
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
But Mr D has already been offered some money back for the commission Capital One 
received from selling him the PPI. Mr D still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place 
and so his complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mr Ds recollection is that he bought the PPI over the phone. But Capital One has given us 
information from its records to show he used the internet to apply for the card and PPI
Weve been asked to look at a number of very similar PPI sales in relation to Capital One 
and as a result of this weve obtained a lot of information about how it normally sold PPI over 
the internet. I think when he was completing his on-line application, Mr D would have been 
given two choices in relation to the PPI. I think he would have had to make a choice before 
being allowed to progress to the next stage of the form. Consumers were usually given two 
options - one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to.
Theres no dispute PPI was actually sold, so I believe Mr D selected the yes option for the 
PPI to be added and I therefore think it is much more likely that he made an active selection 
to buy the policy.
So I think the evidence shows its more likely Mr D asked for the PPI policy to be added.
This was an internet application and so I think Mr D wouldve made his way through the 
on-line process without any advice from Capital One. But Capital One still needed to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr D could make an informed choice 
about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI.Its likely that, before making the on-line selection, the application web-page contained brief 
details about the cost of the cover. I also think there would have been a link to view the 
policys terms and conditions. 
From what Ive seen Mr D he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.
Mr D told us that he was entitled to employer benefits and had some savings. Ive thought 
carefully about these things but this was a non-advised sale so the choice about having PPI 
was for Mr D to make. The PPI would have paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card 
balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim and this would have been in addition to any 
other means he had at that time, including his employer benefits and savings. I also think the 
cost of the cover was affordable for Mr D. So I think this policy was of use.
Mr D mentioned having death in service benefits but thats a different type of insurance 
benefit which would not have helped him if he wasnt working and needed to meet his 
monthly credit card payments. 
So, whilst I accept there may have been some shortcomings in how the policy was sold, I am 
not persuaded Mr D would have decided against taking it out if he had been properly 
informed and fully understood the position. Rather, it seems more likely to me that given his 
then circumstances he would have decided the policy provided potentially valuable 
protection and still gone ahead with it.
Capital One has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because 
when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium). It should have told him about that. Because it didnt, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has said it will pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case. My 
understanding is that that sum has already been paid.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has already offered to pay him for the commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman