DRN-2911437
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her home 
insurance policy for storm damage to her property.  
Mrs S is represented by her daughter Ms S but for ease Ill refer to Mrs S throughout the 
decision. 
What happened
Mrs S had an existing home insurance policy with Ageas. In August 2020, she contacted 
Ageas as she had rain water leaking through the ceiling of her living room and wanted to 
make a claim under her policy.
Ageas instructed a surveyor to look at the damage to see if it should be covered under an 
insured event. The surveyor inspected the roof and said there was no damage to the roof 
tiles but there were holes in the roofing felt which had perished. They said that as there was 
no external storm damage, they didnt think the claim should be covered. However, they also 
noted the cause of the damage was rainwater blowing up and under the roof tiles during the 
recent storm. 
So based on the surveyors report, Ageas declined the claim on the basis the damage had 
been caused by wear and tear to the roofing felt. Mrs S unhappy with this decision so made 
a complaint.
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. They said they had appointed surveyors who had said 
there was no evidence of storm damage to the roof, and therefore they felt the cause of the 
damaged was wear and tear to the internal roofing felt allowing rainwater to enter the 
property. So they felt their original decision to decline the claim was correct. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she had maintained her roof  including having repairs carried 
out in 2013 - so she didnt understand why the claim had been declined for wear and tear. 
So she asked for a second opinion. When Mrs S didnt receive a satisfactory response, she 
asked this service to look into her complaint.
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. He said based on the information 
provided, it appeared Mrs Ss property had been reasonably maintained. He also said he 
hadnt seen any evidence saying it was a requirement for Mrs Ss roof tiles to have a felt 
underlay fitted. So he felt it was unfair for Ageas to apply the wear and tear exclusion 
because of this and Ageas should reassess Mrs Ss claim and pay her £50 for the distress 
this had caused her.
Ageas didnt agree. They said although the felt underlay wasnt required, its likely there 
would have been water damage sooner which wouldnt have been covered by an insured 
peril. They also said other areas of the roof were suffering from wear and tear. 
The investigator told Ageas their own surveyor report had cited the recent storm as the 
cause of the damage. He also said although there may have been wear and tear to other 
areas of the roof, the surveyor had said the storm had lifted the roof tiles where it had 
dripped through  so he didnt feel the other areas of wear and tear were relevant to this 
claim.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs S, Ageas, and the weather report around the date of the 
incident and Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. 
Theres no dispute here that water entered Mrs Ss property, but theres a difference of 
opinion between Mrs S and Ageas about the cause of the water access and the correct 
outcome of the claim.
As a service, when we look at storm damage cases, we ask three main questions: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered. 
Reports show that there was heavy rainfall and storm like conditions in the area of Mrs Ss 
property around the time she says the damage happened. As both parties seem to accept 
there were storm conditions around the date the damage is said to have happened, I dont 
think theres a need for me to comment any further on this. So, I can answer yes to 
questions one. 
I can also answer yes to question two. Strong winds and heavy rainfall can damage 
property, and Ageass own surveyor has noted During the recent storm condition weather, 
rainwater has blown up and under the roof tiles so Im satisfied the damage claimed in this 
instance is consistent with damage typically caused by a storm. 
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. The surveyor appointed by Ageas said there was no external evidence of any 
storm damage and decided water had got into the property by blowing under the roof tiles 
and dripping through the roofing felt which had perished through wear and tear. Ageas told 
us they declined Mrs Ss claim on the basis it had been caused by wear and tear and not by 
an insured peril. They also said although the roof felt wasnt mandatory, if it hadnt been 
there, it was like rain would have penetrated the roof sooner and the damage still wouldnt 
have been covered.
 Looking at the policy document, I can see under the section What is not insured it says 
loss or damage caused by wear, tear and gradual cause so I recognise why Ageas have declined the claim based on the surveyors comments about the roofing felt - but I dont think 
this is fair. I say this because the surveyor report says that Mrs Ss property was in 
reasonable condition - and the external photographs of the property support this statement  
there also doesnt appear to be anything in the report stating there was were and tear to the 
roof tiles where the water ingress took place. 
I recognise the surveyor has noted the dry verges on the side of the lead valley gutter have 
eroded over time. However, they havent said that this has contributed to the damage to 
Mrs Ss property, so I dont think its relevant to the outcome of the claim. I also think that as 
this was the only external issue noted by the surveyor, its likely the rest of the roof externally 
was in a reasonable state of repair.
So this leads me to the reason for the decline of the claim. Ageas have told us they feel as 
the roofing felt had perished this had caused the ingress of water. They also said if the 
roofing felt hadnt been there, its likely there would have been water damage to Mrs Ss 
property sooner. But I dont think thats the issue here as we arent looking at what may have 
happened, we are looking at the cause of damage for this claim. Ive looked at the policy 
documents and I havent seen anything within the wording which says an insured property 
must have a specific roof construction or that there is a requirement for roofing felt if 
insurance cover to be provided. 
Ageas have provided us with a section of the 1965 building regulations they feel is relevant 
to the claim which says, The roof of any building should be weatherproof and constructed 
as not to transmit moisture due to rain or snow to any part of the building which would be 
adversely affected by such moisture. However, this doesnt say that roofing felt needs to be 
applied for a roof of this age building to be compliant  just that the construction needs to not 
allow moisture from rain or snow. A reasonable condition tiled roof in itself would appear to 
meet these criteria. 
I think its also worth noting here that the roof overall appeared to be in reasonable condition 
 as confirmed by the surveyor. Based on the information Mrs S has provided, the statement 
from the surveyor and the weather report online at the time, theres nothing to indicate the 
water ingress and subsequent damage was caused by anything other than the storm 
conditions noted at the time.
Looking at the policy documents, under the section What is covered Ive seen that it says, 
Damage to the buildings and contents caused by events such as [] storm, flood, water 
leakage. Later in the policy Ive also seen that Ageas define what they mean as a Storm 
which is a weather event which occurs in the local vicinity of your home, where winds reach 
a gust strength pf 47 miles per hour or greater, as recorded by WeatherNet. 
As a service, we dont use WeatherNet, however using our system Ive seen that around the 
time of the damage to Mrs Ss property, at the local weather station, the peak gust strength 
was recorded at 57 miles per hour with an hourly rainfall of 14.4mm and 46mm within 24 
hours. So, based on the information available Im satisfied that the weather conditions at the 
time met Ageass own definition of a storm.  
I acknowledge Ageass comment that the roofing felt would have ensured the building was 
waterproof but I dont agree that the tiles sole role is to protect from winds/weathering as 
they also keep a property waterproof. I also think likely that if the roofing felt was required for 
this purpose it would have been defined in both the building regulations and applied 
retrospectively for all roofs which would not have had felt at the time they were built.
Therefore Im persuaded that the damage to Mrs Ss property was most likely caused by the 
storm conditions at the time of the claim. And I dont think it was fair for Ageas to rely on the 
wear and tear exclusion for an addition to the roof structure that Mrs S wasnt required to have as part of her insurance policy.  
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Ageas declined Mrs Ss fairly as they applied an 
exclusion to a roof addition that wasnt required under the policy. Ageas were also aware 
there were storm conditions at the time of the claim and their surveyor noted the rainwater 
had been blown under the times. 
So I also dont think it was reasonable they said the claim wasnt storm damage as there 
was no external damage when their surveyor had already explained how the internal 
damage occurred. So I think its reasonable that Ageas pay Mrs Ss claim under the insured 
peril of storm damage.
I recognise that Mrs S has paid out some costs for the work to be completed  around £2000 
currently, so I think Ageas should refund these costs plus 8% simple interest. Mrs S has also 
told us that she wasnt able to replace her TV because it was too expensive once Ageas 
declined her buildings insurance claim, so shes been using an old one. 
Ive seen that Mrs S has been caused distress and inconvenience here, and because of 
Ageass decision as she didnt make the claim under her contents policy as thought theyd 
also decline that from the same exclusion. So, given the circumstances of the complaint, I 
think Ageas should pay Mrs S £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay the balance of Mrs Ss insurance claim in accordance with the policy terms, plus 
8% simple interest annually from the date Mrs S paid the invoices to the date of 
settlement*
Pay Mrs S £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
*If Ageas Insurance Limited that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give her a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman