DRN-3439627
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money hes lost to a scam.
What happened
On 16 December 2021, Mr T made a payment of £125 towards what he thought was a video 
game console from a seller on a social media marketplace. 
Mr T saw the games console advertised. He says he checked the sellers profile as well as 
the sellers partners profile to check they were genuine. Mr T offered to pay by a secure 
money transfer service or with cash. The seller said he didnt use the secure money transfer 
service and didnt want to risk a payment by cash. They agreed Mr T would pay by bank 
transfer and collect the item from the sellers house. The seller told Mr T he would take the 
item outside the house once the money had been transferred. When Mr T transferred the 
money, the name produced a match for the sellers partner. However, when Mr T knocked at 
the door, he discovered the seller had given him a false address and hed been scammed.
Monzo declined Mr Ts claim as it said Mr T didnt carry out enough checks and it didnt feel 
the scam was very sophisticated. It felt Mr T had no real reason to believe the seller had the 
item or that the seller was who he said he was. It said there wasnt much of a conversation 
before the payment was sent and Mr T didnt question why the payment wasnt in the sellers 
name. It also felt that Mr T ignored an effective warning.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, she considered that Monzo did not give an effective 
warning and that Mr T had a reasonable basis for believing he was making a genuine 
payment. Monzo didnt agree. It considers not being shown the goods before payment is 
clearly a tactic of this type of scam. It also pointed out that the social media marketplace 
provided warnings about scams like this.
As the case could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr T authorised the payment. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo should have reimbursed Mr T in line with the 
provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) it has agreed to adhere to 
and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr T from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr T was tricked into making the payment. He thought he would 
receive a game console in exchange for his money and this wasnt the case. But this isnt 
enough, in itself, for Mr T to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Mr T too.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board CRM Code. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
Mr T ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
Mr T made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom Mr T transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am not persuaded the concerns Monzo has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr T was making are enough to support its 
position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payment he made. It follows that I do not think Monzo has been able to establish that it may 
choose not to reimburse Mr T under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Mr T had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was for a genuine games 
console and that the person he was transacting with was a legitimate seller. In reaching that 
conclusion, I have thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mr T to do 
when he was paying the sum of £125.
Did Mr T have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I think Mr T took enough care with a relatively modest payment of £125 to say that he had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was buying a games console from a genuine seller. I say 
this because:
Mr T says he checked the social media profile for the seller and his partner, and the 
profiles looked to go back some time - with old posts and photos with others. (I note 
the advert page indicated the seller had joined the social media platform around 9 
years earlier). This persuaded him that he was dealing with a legitimate person.During the exchange in messages, the seller gave Mr T his address thus, reassuring 
him further of the legitimacy of the person and the sale.
The price he was quoted was similar and - in my view - was a fair reflection of the 
market value for a second-hand games console like this at that time.
Mr T also received a confirmation of payee match when entering the account holders 
name  albeit the account name belonged to the partner of the seller, rather than the 
seller himself. 
I have considered Monzos arguments carefully, but I dont find them persuasive. I am not 
persuaded Mr T needed to make extensive enquiries or actions in the particular 
circumstances of this case.  Ive thought carefully about the sum Mr T paid and how the 
seller communicated with him and I think Mr Ts actions and assessment of the situation 
were appropriate and proportionate to the payment of £125.
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr T?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr T from becoming a victim of a 
scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr T made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, Mr T was making a relatively modest payment. I dont think the amount of this 
payment would have made it stand out enough for Monzo to have been concerned that Mr T 
might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time that he made it. The payment 
was relatively low in value. So, I dont think Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk 
in the payment journey or that it needed to provide Mr T with an effective warning. 
That said, Monzo has said a low friction warning was shown. Ive still considered whether 
seeing the warning at the time the payment was made should have altered Mr Ts thought 
processes. 
Looking at the warning Monzo says was provided, I can see it attempts to prevent a number 
of different scams, but I dont think the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this 
particular type of purchase scam obvious. It doesnt cover the common features of this type 
of goods scam or really bring to life what the type of scam Mr T fell victim to looks like. And it 
doesnt explain in sufficient detail what Mr T could have done to protect himself against this 
type of scam. Overall, Im not persuaded that a reasonable person in Mr Ts position would 
fully understand the scam risk from the warning Monzo gave. 
Taking account of all the circumstances here, which includes the warning messages Monzo 
says it gave, I dont think Mr Ts actions fell below the level of care expected of him in this 
situation. I think Monzo ought to have fully refunded Mr T at the time he reported the loss 
and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate him by refunding that loss now, along 
with interest. The payment was made from Mr Ts current account. I think its likely that had 
he not been defrauded he would have spent it on other things. So, I consider it fairest to 
award 8% simple interest.Did Monzo do enough to recover Mr Ts funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank. But, in thinking about whether Monzo took reasonable steps to recover Mr Ts 
funds once it was made aware he was the victim of a scam  I note there was some delay by 
Monzo in reporting the scam to the payee bank. 
The scam payment was made at 18.54 on 16 December 2021 and Mr T reported the scam 
to Monzo on the same day at 19.07. Monzo contacted the receiving bank the following day 
(over 24 hours after Mr T first contacted it). I can see Monzo chased the payee bank and 
never received a response.  I appreciate the actions of the payee bank mean we dont know 
whether the funds were removed immediately (as they often are in cases like this) and 
therefore we dont know whether earlier intervention by Monzo would have made a 
difference - but suffice to say, I dont think Monzo met the standards required of it here. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided that Mr T ought reasonably to have been fully 
refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore direct Monzo Bank Ltd to pay him: 
All of the money he lost  £125  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision: plus 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) 1. from the date Monzo declined Mr Ts claim under the CRM Code to the 
date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022. 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr T a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it 
back from HMRC if appropriate.