DRN-3809865
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Sporting Index Limited (Sporting Index) allowed him to place bets 
over his limit by almost three times. He has also said that Sporting Index should have better 
monitored his account because the increase in the number and stake of bets he placed 
during lockdown may have suggested he was a problem gambler. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with Sporting Index since 1997. In July 2020 he placed a bet on which 
he lost £3,201. He didnt think he should have been allowed to place the bets he did place 
leading up to that. He complained to Sporting Index about this and its monitoring of his 
account during lockdown when he said he wasnt working. 
In its response Sporting Index didnt agree with Mr H. It said;
It was fully committed to promoting responsible gambling and had tools and 
dedicated resources in place to assist clients and detect patterns of activity. 
Mr Hs bet of 25 July 2020 was a buy bet of £33 at the price of 125 on a football 
match. The closing price was 28 which led to a loss of £3,201. When making the bet 
a balance of ten times the bet was required, so £330. Mr H had an available balance 
of £1,025 so the bet was accepted. 
The loss meant that Mr H exceeded his trading facility level of £1,500 but with spread 
betting it was possible to lose more than the deposit or pre-agreed trading facility. 
Mr H hadnt placed more bets between March and July 2020. There were around 
50% less bets than the preceding five-month period.
Mr H had placed a few bets at a higher than usual price, but they were mostly the 
type of bet which reduced the maximum liability of the bets. 
Mr H didnt receive Sporting Indexs letter and it transpired it hadnt been sent to him. 
Because of this error, Sporting Index reduced the amount Mr H owed by £676 to £3,000.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld;
Between March and July 2020 Mr H had placed 103 bets but within the three months 
prior to that he had placed 177 bets. So, the investigator didnt agree Mr H was 
betting more frequently.
There was enough credit on Mr Hs account when he placed the complained about 
bet in July 2020. But the credit limit wasnt a way of limiting losses on his account.
While Sporting Index was obliged to check the appropriateness of an account when it 
was opened, it wasnt obliged to do so on a regular basis. And even if it did, those 
checks would be focused on his understanding of the workings of an account and its 
associated risks. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said the focus of his complaint was the big rise in the stake of his bets. 
Historically his stake would be a maximum of £30 with the maximum potential loss of £1,500. 
When he tried to bet above that, Sporting Index would ask for more deposit.
More recently he started staking larger amounts towards the end of football matches which 
he said was a desperate strategy to pay his mortgage. The strategy exposed him to 
massive risk. He said he was taking chances and Sporting Index was aware he wasnt 
working. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr H. He clearly feels strongly about his complaint and that Sporting 
Index shouldnt have allowed him to get into the financial position he now finds himself.
While I have sympathy for Mr H, I am required to consider the matter on the basis of what I 
think is fair and reasonable  and key to this is the extent to which I think Sporting Index has 
treated him fairly  or otherwise  and done what it was required to do. 
As I understand it, Mr H has had an account with Sporting Index since 1997. It had a credit 
limit of £1,500 with a classic account meaning no stop loss was in place. By having had the 
account for over 13 year I dont think its unreasonable to assume Mr H was aware of how 
his account worked and there was the potential that he could lose more than he put in.
Sporting Index had a responsibility to make sure the account was appropriate for Mr H when 
it was opened as required under the regulations  COBS 10.2 which seeks to establish the 
customers experience and knowledge in order for the customer to understand the risks 
involved. But there werent any requirements for Sporting Index to continue to check for 
appropriateness. However, I have considered how Sporting Index managed Mr Hs account 
and whether it was fair in doing so. 
Sporting Index has explained it takes the promotion of responsible gambling seriously and 
that it has dedicated resources in place to detect patterns of activity on a customers account 
that might indicate a possible problem in order for it to intervene. 
Mr H has said that Sporting Index had a duty of care. I can see that Mr H mentioned to 
Sporting Index he had been furloughed during lockdown, but I cant see that Mr H 
communicated his change in position to Sporting Index until after he raised his complaint. He 
has said that Sporting Index did NOT once ask[ing] if I was earning through lockdown or 
even earning at all and that it did not once check affordability at this level or even if I was 
still working. But Sporting Index had carried out its regulatory duties when taking on the 
account and it would be reliant upon Mr H making it aware of any changes in his 
circumstances which might impact on his spread betting account. 
So, taking this into account, I dont agree that Sporting Index has done anything wrong. It 
didnt know about any change in Mr Hs personal circumstances which might impact on his 
account as he did not make it aware that he wasnt working. If Mr H feels that Sporting Index should have done more, in that he has been taken 
advantage of, that is only because his trades were not profitable. Mr H said that he was 
winning but then began losing. However, Sporting Index couldnt have known in advance 
how he would trade, or whether he would make losses. All it could do was ensure that he 
was aware of the risks  which his long-established relationship with Sporting Index would 
suggest this was the case  or respond to any new information Mr H gave it about its 
circumstances.
Sporting Index has agreed that the last bets on the account were placed on markets with a 
higher price than usual and therefore a greater risk of higher losses, but there were also bets 
placed before lockdown at similarly high prices. And I also note that in its final response to 
Mr H, Sporting Index explained that there were a few bets at a higher price, but on most of 
those occasions the so-far scores were also higher than zero, which reduced the maximum 
liability of those bets. Overall, Im satisfied Sporting Index didnt find anything unusual in     
Mr Hs betting patterns to cause it concern. 
Mr H has said Sporting Index should have asked for a deposit before taking a bet and that it 
historically would make sure the bet was covered. But that is not the nature of spread 
betting. Sporting Index monitored the credit limit on his account, which was £1,500, but not 
the potential win or loss  it wouldnt know in advance what bet he was going to make or 
whether that bet was going to win or lose. In spread betting the customer can lose a lot more 
than their stake or their trading limit  Sporting Index is very clear about those warnings. So, 
I wouldnt expect Sporting Index to ensure that a bet was covered.
I cant tell a firm how to run its business. But from what Sporting Index has told us, Im 
satisfied that its likely that Sporting Indexs business model sufficiently facilitates the 
monitoring of its customers accounts so as to pick up any inconsistent behaviour or unusual 
activity that would alert it to the potential that the customer may be struggling. 
In the case of Mr Hs betting patterns its systems didnt pick up anything out of the ordinary 
on his account, so I dont see that it had any reason to proactively seek information from him 
and whether he needed any assistance. I note that now it is aware of Mr Hs concerns  and 
his request to close his account  that the account has been closed with a permanent self-
exclusion applied to it.
Taking all of the above into account, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint and ask Sporting Index to erase his trading losses. But I would 
encourage Sporting Index to engage with Mr H having regard to his personal and financial 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman