DRN-1298912
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs E says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs E that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs E says she wasnt aware of the PPI and wasnt given a choice about it.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mrs Es application form for the credit card. This included a box 
to show whether Mrs E wanted to take PPI. And there is a pre-printed cross in the box.
While the cross is pre-printed, Mrs Es details including her address, date of birth and 
employer are also pre-printed. So I think its likely there was some conversation between 
Halifax and Mrs E before the form was printed out. And, based on what I understand about 
Halifaxs sales processes at the time, I think its likely it was made clear to Mrs E in this 
conversation that she had a choice about the PPI.
So I think Halifax did make it clear to Mrs E that she had a choice about the PPI. And that 
Mrs E chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Mrs E says Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to her, but Halifax says it did. If Halifax did 
recommend the PPI, it wouldve had more responsibilities during the sale, which would be to 
Mrs Es benefit. So, as Halifax accepts that it recommended the PPI, Ive assessed the 
complaint as if it did. This means Halifax had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs E.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Es circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for 
her. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes told us she wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for her, Halifax had to give Mrs E clear information about the 
PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for 
Mrs E if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs E off taking it out.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs E paid for it. Halifax has already offered to give Mrs E back some of the cost of the PPI. 
And I dont think it needs to do anything more.I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs E.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman