DRN-2234966
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has turned down an 
escape of water claim they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs P got in touch with Lloyds to make a claim for the damage 
caused by an escape of water. They said their plumber had repaired a leak under their sink. 
But there was resulting water damage on their ceiling and theyd had to cut a hole in their 
ceiling to gain access to the pipework. There was also trace and access damage in their 
bathroom.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the damage. The loss adjuster felt Lloyds 
needed to look into the claim further. They thought the ceiling damage was possibly linked to 
a previous escape of water claim Mr and Mrs P hadnt pursued. They felt a copper pipe 
might still be leaking. They werent satisfied the leak had been repaired and they suggested 
that Lloyds should review a copy of the plumbers report before agreeing to cover the claim.
So Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs P to provide a report from the plumber they said had carried 
out the repair. Mr and Mrs P ultimately said they couldnt provide a plumbers report. Thats 
because a cause of damage report hadnt been completed when the leak was fixed. And 
they hadnt been able to get back in touch with the plumber, due to a change in his 
circumstances.
Lloyds turned down Mr and Mrs Ps claim. It relied on a specific policy condition which 
required policyholders to substantiate their claim. It didnt think Mr and Mrs P had shown 
they had a valid claim on their policy. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with Lloyds decision. They said the leak had been fixed. They 
felt they were in an impossible situation as the plumber wasnt returning their calls. They 
asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
the policy entitled Lloyds to ask for substantiation of a policyholders claim. He thought, given 
Mr and Mrs Ps claims history and the surveyors concerns, it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
want to see a report from the plumber whod repaired the leak. He didnt think he could hold 
Lloyds responsible for the difficulties Mr and Mrs P had encountered in contacting the 
plumber.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said Lloyds had told them to make a hole in the ceiling to 
trace the leak. The leak had been fixed and the copper pipe had been dry since. They would 
ask another plumber to write a report to support their claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr and Mrs P have claimed for damage caused by a 
leaking pipe. Damage caused by an escape of water is covered by the terms of Mr and Mrs 
Ps policy. But for the claim to be paid, Lloyds needs to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ps 
claim is valid.
Its for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But insurers 
usually investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. While Mr 
and Mrs P say the damage was down to a leaking pipe which their plumber fixed, they didnt 
have a cause of damage report. Lloyds asked its adjuster to investigate the likely cause of 
the damage. 
Ive looked closely at the adjusters report and Ive placed significant weight on it, as its the 
only piece of expert evidence available to me. The adjuster said:
The insured believes the leak has been fixed but there (sic) copper pipe is still sweating. A 
plumbers report will be required to confirm the leak has been found and fixed. It is also worth 
noting that the way the waste pipe runs from the toilet, it doesn't seem to go into other rooms 
and so the damage in the other room is likely from another cause.
The adjuster also thought the ceiling damage might be linked to a previous escape of water 
claim Mr and Mrs P had made a couple of years before, which theyd withdrawn due to the 
damage being below the policy excess. Overall, they concluded:
It doesn't appear that any leak has been fixed and we would recommend the insured send 
the plumbers report before confirming any level of cover.
Based on the adjusters report, Lloyds wasnt satisfied Mr and Mrs P had shown they had a 
valid claim on their policy and so it asked them to send in a report from their plumber, 
confirming what the cause of the damage had been. Ive thought about whether it was 
reasonable for it to do so and Ive carefully considered the policy terms.
The policy terms set out Claims Conditions that a policyholder must comply with. One of 
these conditions states:
You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. To assist with this we may request 
you to provide reasonable additional information at your own expense. Examples are:
 Original quotations, written estimates, invoices or photographs.
Im satisfied the policy clearly sets out that a policyholder must prove their claim and provide 
substantiation of it. Given the adjusters findings, I think it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds 
to decide it wouldnt deal with Mr and Mrs Ps claim without a cause of damage report, given 
the plumber wouldve had the chance to assess the pipework and the leak.
Mr and Mrs P have consistently said that they havent been able to contact the plumber and I 
appreciate how frustrating this mustve been for them. But I dont think I can fairly hold 
Lloyds responsible for their inability to get the evidence it needs. And as Ive explained, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to conclude it needed the report before it could look to 
settle the claim or progress it.
So overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs P have shown Lloyds that they have a valid claim on 
their policy. I think its fair for Lloyds to require further evidence in order to reconsider the 
claim. Its open to Mr and Mrs P to now obtain further evidence which supports their claim 
and send it onto Lloyds for it to consider should they wish to do so. But all in all, I think it was 
fair for Lloyds to turn down their claim based on the adjusters evidence and the lack of 
substantiation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman