DRN-1610043
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002 in connection with a credit card. Miss M says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss M complained she did not know she had bought PPI when she applied for her credit 
card on a postal application form. She said She had good employee benefits, so she didn't 
need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Miss M disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. She added she wasn't 
able to say no to PPI on the form because there was no option to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Having seen the credit card application form, I think Barclays made it clear that Miss 
M didnt have to take out the PPI with her credit card because PPI was listed under 
the heading Optional Benefits and Miss M could have left the PPI tick box blank to 
decline the PPI offer. So I think she chose to take it out by ticking the PPI box  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off from taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including what she said about her employee 
benefits and her Healthcare plan. But these points dont change my decision because the 
PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months which was probably for longer than and in 
addition to her sick pay. Miss M said her Healthcare plan only covered certain events with 
hospital cover, but the PPI could have covered other illnesses where there was no hospital 
care needed. So I still think there was a benefit in having the PPI policy.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss M. 
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman