DRN-3832878
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Vitality Life Limited (Vitality) has unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mr and Ms L have a VitalityLife Essentials plan with Vitality which provides life and serious 
illness cover. 
In February 2022, Ms L made a claim under the severe gastrointestinal disease category of 
the policy. Vitality declined the claim and said there wasnt objective evidence of a severe 
gastrointestinal disease and that Ms Ls condition of endometriosis was gynaecological 
rather than gastrointestinal. 
Unhappy, Ms L complained to Vitality about its decision and also the length of time it took to 
assess her claim. In addition, it had incorrectly addressed correspondence to her husband 
instead of her. It maintained its decline and so Ms L referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had declined the claim 
unfairly based on the medical evidence available to it. 
Ms L disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Her disease is severe and affects her gastrointestinal functions.
Nobody has explained, based on the actual terms of the policy, why her claim has 
been declined, as her condition affected her gastrointestinal system.
Ms Ls doctors say she meets the criteria set out in the policy wording. 
Vitality recognised that severe endometriosis could qualify as severe gastrointestinal 
disease. 
Vitality has provided new criteria to invalidate her claim by suggesting that the 
gastrointestinal disease must stem from and be restricted to the gastrointestinal 
system rather than referring back to the original wording of the policy. 
Ms L should be given the benefit of the doubt if there is any lack of clarity in the 
policy wording. 
Ms Ls endometriosis is gastrointestinal as well as gynaecological.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld in part. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions
Serious illness is defined in the policy as follows:
An illness or condition that:
Is defined in Appendix 1 
Meets our definition for that illness or condition 
The serious illnesses are divided into body system categories. These categories are set 
out in Appendix 1
Appendix 1 defines severe gastrointestinal disease as follows:
Severe Gastrointestinal Disease  requiring hospitalisation
Objective evidence of a severe gastrointestinal disease with all of the following:
Disturbance of bowel function at rest with severe persistent pains for a minimum of 3 
consecutive months 
Limitation of activity with continued restriction of diet and no response to medical 
therapy for a minimum of 3 months 
There have been 2 hospital admissions to treat the condition in the 12 months prior 
to claim
For the above definition, the following are not covered
Any hospitalisation for diagnostic purposes
Any hospitalisation for other conditions
Any hospitalisation relating to alcohol or drug misuse
Irritable bowel syndrome
The claim decision
Vitality reviewed the medical evidence Ms L provided but declined the claim for the following 
reasons: 
Medical surgery for endometriosis isnt covered under the serious illness cover 
benefit.
Two gynaecological conditions led to fibrosis and adhesions in the whole abdominal cavity.
The primary disease does not stem from the gastrointestinal system.
The definition clearly notes that there must be objective evidence of severe 
gastrointestinal disease which it didnt identify in the medical information. 
The intention of the policy wording is only to consider gastrointestinal conditions. 
The criteria to meet the definition is designed to assess gastrointestinal disease and 
the effects of diet and treatment on the gastrointestinal system. Endometriosis is a 
gynaecological condition. 
There was no infiltration within the bowel itself - only indirect involvement. The 
definition title and its wording specifically states that the benefit covers 
gastrointestinal diseases. There was no evidence of direct gastrointestinal internal 
involvement. 
The available medical evidence 
Vitality reviewed the following key medical evidence to reach its decision:
November 2020  Ms L had a procedure to treat her endometriosis which was done by a 
consultant gynaecologist and endometriosis surgeon.
December 2021  Ms L had a laparoscopy in November 2021 and a different consultant 
surgeon specialising in endometriosis and pelvic surgery wrote a letter to confirm she had 
suffered from severe pelvic pain and bowel dysfunction as a result of complications from her 
previous surgery in November 2020. He said she had very painful and irregular bowel 
movements due to bowel involvement from deep infiltrating endometriosis. The laparoscopy 
found pelvic adhesive disease and evidence of a likely previous infection  this involved 
multiple pelvic structures including the lower sigmoid, colon and rectum. Adhesions were 
removed and additional inflammatory tissue and scarring which improved pain and bowel 
function. Due to these pains Ms L had been on a very limited diet for many years. 
27 January 2022  GP letter confirming Ms L was found to have extensive endometriosis 
infiltrating a number of areas in her pelvis and abdomen and this was the cause of her 
problems and gastrological symptoms. Shed had longstanding symptoms causing 
disturbance of bowel function. 
Having considered the medical evidence and detailed submissions from both Vitality and Ms 
L, Im not satisfied that Ms L has shown Objective evidence of a severe gastrointestinal 
disease. The medical evidence confirms Ms L was suffering from deep infiltrating 
endometriosis. This isnt a listed specified condition in the serious illness section of the 
policy. And so it isnt covered. 
Although Ms L says her endometriosis affects her gastrointestinal functions, the policy isnt 
designed to cover other non-specified or related conditions (such as endometriosis). I 
understand the connection Ms L has made between her gastrointestinal function and her 
endometriosis but Im persuaded by Vitalitys explanation -  that there was no direct 
gastrointestinal involvement based on the medical evidence available  and so the condition 
Ms L was treated for, isnt covered as a result. 
Although Ms Ls doctors say she meets the criteria, its up to Vitality to reach a decision 
based on the policy terms and the medical evidence available. I dont think the definition is ambiguous and the title specifies objective evidence is needed. Vitality explained why it 
didnt think there was any objective evidence of a severe gastrointestinal disease.
Ms L also says she has further evidence which Vitality hasnt requested or seen. It is up to 
Ms L to prove her claim so if she has further evidence which shows that she may be 
suffering from a severe gastrointestinal disease and meets the criteria, she should send this 
to Vitality for assessment. 
Overall, I dont think Vitality unfairly declined Ms Ls claim based on the medical evidence it 
reviewed, as set out above. 
Delay and incorrect correspondence
Vitality accepted that it took too long to reach a decision and that it incorrectly sent 
correspondence to Ms Ls partner instead of her. For this, it offered £350 compensation 
which I consider is reasonable for the length of the delay and the mistakes it made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Vitality Life Limited 
to pay Ms L £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman