DRN-3918920
The complaint
This complaint is about a re-mortgage that Mrs and Mr D carried out in 2007 on the advice 
and recommendation of a broker who represented Legal & General Partnership Services 
Limited (L&G). Mrs and Mr D, who have third party representation, say the advice to take 
the mortgage out was unsuitable, because it meant they paid an early repayment charge 
(ERC) of around £6,000 to redeem their existing mortgage. They say they should have been 
advised to wait until the existing lenders ERC period ended.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs and Mr D took the mortgage in 2007 it was for around £243,000 (including fees), on 
interest-only, and repayable after 15 years. The purpose of the mortgage was to repay their 
existing mortgage (around £156,000 including the ERC) and raise funds to pay for home 
improvements. The complaint is that the advisor should have recommended they wait until 
the ERC period with the existing lender expired in May 2008. Our investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs and Mr Ds representative has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
In this decision I have to look at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered generally whether L&G did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In 
doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards as they are today, or to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all of this very carefully; its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and 
decide how much weight should be attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider 
individual documents in isolation. We consider everything together to form a broader opinion 
on the whole picture.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is the point-of-sale documentation from 2007. 
The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what 
was said and agreed at the relevant time. Unless theres a compelling reason to believe the 
information is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it. Even if anomalies or 
mistakes are identified, that doesnt automatically mean a mis-sale has taken place. We still 
have to consider whether they might or might not have affected the suitability of the advice 
that was given. 
The essence of the complaint is that Mrs and Mr D should have been advised to wait a few 
months until they could redeem their existing mortgage without incurring an ERC. On that 
key issue, the point of sale documentation shows conflicting information. On the one hand, 
the client review records Mrs and Mr D as not wanting to pay an ERC to end their current 
mortgage. On the other hand, the draft of the Mortgage Record Of Suitability notes them 
wishing to proceed immediately in order to secure a low rate before rates rose, and to 
release funds to pay their builders.
Where the evidence is contradictory, as it is here, we reach our findings on what we consider 
is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases. Also, for a complaint to succeed as a result of a finding on 
the balance of probabilities, the complainants case has to be more likely than the 
respondents; equally likely is not enough.
Mrs and Mr Ds representative has inferred that they might have been subject to undue 
influence by L&Gs advisor. The alternative is that they simply changed their minds. The 
timing is important here; the advice was given in July 2007, approximately two months 
before the first series of events in what would eventually become known as the financial 
crisis took place. 
Its now a matter of economic history that interest rates generally fell dramatically once the 
financial crisis took hold during late 2007 and into 2008. However, in the middle part of 2007 
when Mrs and Mr D were being advised on their re-mortgage, the view of financial markets 
as a whole was that interest rates generally were expected to rise. So I find it entirely 
plausible that Mrs and Mr D might have wanted to secure a rate for their new mortgage 
immediately, rather than wait until the spring of 2008. 
In my view, the interest rate factor alone would have been a likely incentive for Mrs and Mr D 
to want to proceed right away, independently from any time pressure there might have been 
in respect of the building work itself. Overall that seems a more likely explanation than undue 
influence. Mrs and Mr Ds representative makes the point that they werent on notice of the 
amount of the ERC when they made the decision to go ahead. Thats not true; its recorded 
as being £6,020 in the client review; one of the documents on which Mrs and Mr Ds 
representative has relied on to make their case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman