DRN-3622819
The complaint
Mr P complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
Beacon IFA Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to Beacon.
Mr P also has a representative bringing the complaint on his behalf. However, Ill refer any 
comments and views as coming from Mr P himself.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr P was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Beacon which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr P was 37 years old, married and with two dependent children. He was described 
as being in good health and at the time.
Mr P lived in a home valued at around £130,000 with a 25-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £80,000. 
Mr P earned around £35,700. Mrs P also worked. After expenses they had some 
disposable income left over. Mr P had £80,000 in a combination of single and joint 
savings and was paying a type of car loan.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ps BSPS was approximately 
£229,735. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Beacon set out its advice in a suitability report on 4 December 2017. In this it advised Mr P 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Beacon 
said this would allow Mr P to achieve his objectives. Mr P accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In 2021 Mr P complained to Beacon about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, Beacon said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
was acting on the financial objectives Mr P had at the time. 
However, Beacon has since said it would like to settle the complaint. It said it would do this 
in full and using a specific redress calculator which the financial regulator has established for 
these cases. So, Beacon asked for Mr P to supply details of his transferred pension value so 
it can begin the process of establishing if there has been a loss. Beacon said if there is a 
loss, then it will pay what is due under the guidelines issued by the financial regulator.
However, having provided these details, there is still no apparent loss. Beacon says the 
personal pension has grown to an extent that Mr P could now buy back the same benefits he 
would have obtained if he hadnt transferred and that hes still have a little amount left over. 
Mr P still disagrees and says the methodology to calculate the redress should be different to 
the one used.
So, even though I can see Beacon is apparently willing to settle this complaint using the 
approach we endorse, it cant evidently be resolved informally. 
Its therefore come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Beacon's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Beacon should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ps best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Beacon. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Financial viability 
Beacon referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Beacon used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the 
critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr P was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Ps case, I think its important to point out 
that Beacon could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring 
out, rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. We know BSPS was being 
stopped. Also, many weeks before this advice, which was dated 4 December 2017, BSPS 
members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to move 
into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had also 
been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and more details of 
the BSPS2 had emerged by the time Beacon produced its suitability report. 
Its true the situation was dynamic in that some changes were being proposed at that very 
point, but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar 
complaints to this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, 
using the existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving 
Mr P the best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair 
to say that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be 
between the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme 
(BSPS). In my view, all this shows the advice probably wasnt quite as comprehensive as it 
ought to have been.
Having said all that, Beacon said that the critical yield required to match the benefits at the 
age of 65 in the BSPS, was 6.35% if Mr P took a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If 
taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 5.54%. However, Beacon also calculated 
the critical yield rates for an earlier retirement, at the age of 57. It did this because Mr P had 
apparently expressed a desire to retire early.However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very long way off for Mr P and 
so I very much doubt whether retiring at 57 was anything more than something he just 
aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. For the age of 57, the critical yields came out 
at 8.47% (no tax-free cash) and 7.34% (with tax free cash) respectively. 
But I dont think there was credible evidence at the time that achieving enough growth 
outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, was ever going to be 
achievable. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 was 
only 4.6% per year for 27 years to retirement (age 65), which is below all of the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate 
at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 
2%.
At the time, Beacon assessed Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) as medium and it also quoted a 
mid-growth assumption for the fund it was recommending that Mr P ought to transfer his 
money to as being 2.2%
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. Growth 
assumptions close to the regulators projections and also to the discount rate were most 
relevant here in my view. And even the funds own mid-rate projection was relatively low. So, 
I think growth assumptions of around 2 -to-5% were much more realistic. These were 
substantially below the critical yield figures for the BSPS, so I think this showed that 
achieving the critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, Beacons own transfer analysis said that even in 
order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment 
and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £355,443. For the 
age of 57 the amount required was £327,651.
To reiterate, these figures are found in Beacons own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far above Mr Ps 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr P could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Beacon also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. Beacon said the critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and Beacon itself says Mr P wouldnt have wanted 
to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr P, 
would have further reduced the likely growth. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Beacons own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr P would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS. But as Ive said, Beacon 
should have recalculated the comparisons for Mr P when the situation with BSPS2 became 
clear  we know this was available at the time. 
Ive also considered some projections Beacon used to help show that if he transferred out to 
a personal plan, the funds could last Mr P well into retirement. Again, I think most of these 
were based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to 
say these were not comparing like-with-like. What Beacon was showing Mr P were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Beacon, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Beacon said Mr P also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Beacon recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr 
Ps wider objectives. I have used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to 
summarise the following themes as supporting the recommendation to transfer away:
Beacon said Mr Ps circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided by 
transferring.
It said there was a competitive CETV being offered.
Beacon said there was a higher tax-free lump sum available if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan.
Beacon specifically said the death benefits would be greater following a transfer.
It said his employer was in a precarious position regarding its finances and 
members of the BSPS could lose money.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr P approached Beacon for advice because of the uncertainties 
he faced with the BSPS. He clearly didnt want to enter the PPF. 
But as Ive mentioned above, Mr P was still only 37 years old and in good health. In this 
context, I think Beacons adviser saying Mr P had specific uses for his retirement funds 
lacked credibility. In my view, the adviser portrayed the DB scheme opportunity Mr P had with the proposed 
BSPS2 in a negative dimension. The implication was that transferring to the BSPS2 was 
somehow too restrictive for Mr P and unsuitable for him.
But I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Ps comparatively young age by 
pension standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr P  understandably - had no 
concrete plans whatsoever for his retirement. With over 27 years still left to when hed be 
actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might 
possibly use the money for, should have been a major influence in him deciding to 
irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk which Ive 
showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr P probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been general 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this.
Flexibility and control
I also cant see that Mr P required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. 
In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Beacon. I therefore think this was no more than 
a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr P required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away 
from retirement age. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing 
job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. This DC 
pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr P and his employer - 6% and 
10% respectively and still had up to 27 years left to run (19 years if he did eventually retire 
very early). So, this secondary pension would have afforded Mr P any flexibility he might 
have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr P wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr P could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time  
up to 27 years. So, if Mr P ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to 
use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr P had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr P was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr P himself had no experience of these types of money market investments and I think he 
would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £229,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr P 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Beacon itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. In my view, this 
showed a reasonable income when assessed against what Mr P had speculated that he 
might need in retirement. Of course, Ive already explained the unpredictability of assessing retirement needs so far in advance and at such a young age. However, Mr P speculated that 
he might have needed around £2,000 per month in todays money.
Beacons analysis said that if retiring at 65, Mr P could expect an annual pension of around 
£18,082. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension calculated for the earlier 
retirement, at aged 57, this was still £13,526 per year. And it certainly isnt unreasonable to 
say that by then, Mr P could have built up a DC fund well in excess of £150,000 assuming a 
low growth rate. So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ps pension entitlements 
wouldnt have easily met his anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer from a 
DB scheme.
These were BSPS figures, but that doesnt really matter because current members were 
being given similar estimates about the new scheme (BSPS2) at around the very time this 
advice was being sought. I dont think Beacon adequately explained these things to Mr P as 
its advice simply discounted him transferring to the new scheme to obtain flexibility which 
was poorly defined and which he didnt need.
Ive also noted that Mr P was at the time undergoing an engineering course which he hoped 
would enhance his skill set. His anticipation, which I consider to be reasonable, is that hed 
be more employable at higher skilled grades within the industry. So I think his earnings 
would most likely increase in the coming years, as would the DC pension contributions. 
I therefore think Mr Ps circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. All the evidence pointed to 
him still being able to retire earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would have 
been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he also 
had a smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr P died. Mr P was married and had children so I think 
the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension 
provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs E if he predeceased her. I dont think 
Beacon made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was.
The adviser told Mr P that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal pension, 
potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr P. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr P might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Beacon explored to 
what extent Mr P was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.
Mr P was only 37 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr P had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 57 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 57 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone.
I note life insurance was discussed in this case and I think Mr P would have found a whole 
life policy matching the CETV from day one would have been expensive. He already had 
some life insurance anyway. But at 37 years old, another modest term life insurance policy 
may have still been a reasonably affordable product if Mr P really did want to leave a large 
legacy for a specific relative or someone else. But more so, it doesnt appear that Beacon 
took into account the fact that Mr P could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr P already had plenty of 
options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ps situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr P, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Beacon said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Beacon said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr P was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Beacons obligation to give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Beacon 
should have reassured Mr P that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr P through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to Beacons recommendation to Mr P to transfer out of the DB 
scheme altogether.
Other issues
Tax-free cash
Beacon also implied to Mr P that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its often the case that more tax-free cash can be 
accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But Beacon should have been telling Mr P at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a 
personal pension, potentially from the age of 57 in his case, also came with consequences in 
that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously decrease. And to be clear, 
this was all three decades or so away for Mr P.
The high CETV
I accept the CETV Mr P was being offered would have seemed like a lot of money. But the 
way a DB pension works is that a cash CETV is reflective of bond yields and at the time we 
were in a sustained period of low interest rates and bond yields. Although this has changed 
now, at the time there was no indication his CETV would have decreased. In any event, Ive 
explained comprehensively how other factors were much more important for Mr P. 
Transferring wholly on a CETV wouldnt in my view, be suitable advice  and certainly not at 
the age of only 37.
Suitability of investments 
Beacon recommended that Mr P invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr P and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr P was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think Beacon ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ps best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr P still had 
many more years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr P would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think Beacon should have advised Mr P to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr P would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Beacon disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr P, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr P to transfer out, and I think Mr P relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr P would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Beacons advice. I say this because Mr P was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Beacon had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if Beacon had explained Mr P was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Beacon should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Beacons unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Beacon should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Beacon must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Beacon should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr P and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Beacon should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts Beacons offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Beacon may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that Beacon should pay Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr P in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr P. So I agree the recommended payment of £200 for distress 
and inconvenience. Beacon should pay Mr P this amount in addition to the redress Ive set 
out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Beacon IFA 
Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Beacon IFA Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Beacon IFA 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman