DRN-1141963
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Briefly:
Mr S took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card. Both were done by phone. 
The call was an outbound call from Barclays. The call was prompted by Mr S completing a 
short expression of interest form which he posted to Barclays.
The policy provided protection for Mr S card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost 79 pence for every £100 Mr 
S owed on the card and the monthly benefit of the policy was 10% of the outstanding 
balance. The premiums continued to be payable during a claim, and they did attract interest. 
At the time Mr S was employed and he says he was entitled to eight months sick pay. He 
said he had investments in bonds/shares worth around £30,000 and he says he was in good 
health at the time.
Mr S credit card account closed before April 2008.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the call scripts 
theyd seen suggest Mr S was given a choice about PPI. And there was nothing to suggest it 
was unsuitable for him at the time.
Mr S, through is representative disagrees. In summary, he says he was entitled to sufficient 
sick pay to render the policy unnecessary. So the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
This was a sale by phone. Barclays hasn't got a call recording available  things 
happened too long ago. But it has provided a call script it says its advisers wouldve 
followed during a call like Mr S. Looking at this  and in the absence of anything else 
persuasive that makes me think something different happened  I think its likely 
Barclays made it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about PPI and he agreed to take it 
out.Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, such as those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual 
unemployment circumstances, and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr S had a not insignificant level of sick pay available to him. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement and for longer if necessary  up to 12 
months. Mr S has also said he had investments in bonds and shares as his disposal. 
But Im mindful that Barclays asked Mr S for more specific details about this when he 
first complained but didn't hear from him. And in submitting this complaint, Mr S didn't 
give us more information.
In my view, an investment portfolio of bonds and shares is not typically regarded as 
readily accessible or can reasonably be described as emergency funds. And Im not 
persuaded the Barclays adviser wouldve considered it to be in giving their advice  
assuming Mr S was asked / he told them about it during the phone call. So I dont think 
the existence of such investments made the policy unsuitable.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And I dont think it operated fundamentally differently from what he was told 
about the PPI and which he based his decision on to go ahead. It seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. And it also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
Because of this, I find Mr S hasn't lost out so Barclays doesn't have to pay back any of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided not to uphold Mr S' complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman