DRN-3589691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint to this service relates to a secured loan they hold with a lender (C), 
which is not regulated in the UK. The loan is, therefore, administered by Target Servicing 
Limited. Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Target didnt, when initially contacted, honour the 
Ombudsman award; made against the original lender (W) and wouldnt recalculate the loan 
balance, as W had agreed to do following the involvement of this service. In addition, they 
dont think that when it eventually did, it did so properly. Following from this, Mr and Mrs S 
are unhappy that Target wouldnt provide them with a details of how it had calculated the 
balance of the account and that it wouldnt reimburse them the cost of the solicitors theyd 
commissioned to deal with the matter on their behalf. 
What happened
On 24 June 2022 I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction as it related to this complaint. 
I concluded that we were only able to consider part of the complaint  that being the issues 
covered in Targets final response letter of 12 April 2021, which were:
That Target hadnt provided the calculation of how the account balance had been 
reached.
Mr and Mrs S wanting their legal costs reimbursed.
Dissatisfaction with how C had taken over the loan.
As such, what follows is general scene setting and evidence relevant to the above points. 
In 2005 Mr and Mrs S took out the secured loan with W. They found it difficult to make the 
payments to the loan within a year of taking it out. In 2009, W agreed a payment 
arrangement of £150 per month and stopped charging interest. However, in May 2013 W 
started charging interest again. It stopped doing so again in August 2014, but it didnt 
remove the interest it had charged from the account. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to W and, when they werent happy with its response, they asked 
us to become involved. 
In May 2018 Target sent Mr and Mrs S a letter confirming that the loan had been transferred 
to C. It said that the changes wouldnt affect the amount they owed. It explained the account 
would be managed by a specialist servicing team, so from 11 June 2018 they would need to 
contact its servicing team if they needed something. It gave a lo-call telephone number to 
contact it on.
In October 2018 one of our adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs S complaint. W said that it 
had calculated that £8,440.99 of interest had been charged. However, our adjudicator didnt 
think refunding that amount would place Mr and Mrs S in the correct position. This was 
because the interest had been compounded and so W needed to calculate what the balance 
of the loan would have been had the interest never been applied in the first place. In 
addition, he recommended that W pay Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation for any trouble or 
upset theyd experienced because of the error. Both Mr and Mrs S and W accepted the 
adjudicators recommendation. 
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs S wrote to C (Target) enclosing a copy of the adjudicators 
view. They confirmed that theyd received the £250 compensation, and said that as C had 
bought the account, it was responsible for the remainder of the award. Targets response 
was that as the award had been made against W, they should speak to it. Mr and Mrs S then 
decided to involve a solicitor in the discussions with Target. 
It was not until the summer of 2020 that Target adjusted the loan account in line with the 
adjudicators view. Subsequently, Mr and Mrs S complained about various things and 
correspondence was exchanged between the parties, including two final response letters. 
The second final response of 12 April 2021 said that C was not responsible for the legal 
costs theyd incurred as it had been their decision to involve solicitors. In relation to C having 
taken over the loan, it confirmed that a letter had been sent explaining that the loan would be 
transferred, including its then current balance, to C. Target said that at the time of the 
transfer there were no unresolved issued it was aware of. In relation to Mr and Mrs S 
concern that Target hadnt provide calculations for how it had reached the then current 
balance, it explained that it had provided them with periodic statements providing information 
about the balance and payments made. However, it also provided them with a full statement 
of the account since its inception, including details of the credits made in summer 2020.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept what Target said and further correspondence was exchanged, 
but Target didnt provide any further comment, it simply referred back to its earlier letters. 
Mr and Mrs S then asked us to look into their complaint. 
When they made their referral to this service, Mr and Mrs S said that when C and Target 
wouldnt apply the redress recommended by this service in 2018, they felt they had no other 
choice but to employ solicitors to assist them. They felt their solicitors were given the run 
around. As such, Mr and Mrs S want to be reimbursed the associated costs, but C had only 
agreed to pay the cost of the application to the court for enforcement of the adjudicators 
conclusions. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs S complaint. He concluded that we could 
only considered part of the complaint. As both parties accepted that position at the time, he 
went on to consider the merits of the parts of the complaint that fell within our jurisdiction. He 
didnt recommend that it be upheld.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that they didnt believe 
he had addressed their complaint, as set out when they referred their complaint to this 
service. They also didnt think that he understood their complaint. Mr and Mrs S said that 
they were taken aback that the investigator considered that ignoring this services 
adjudication was lawful, fair and acceptable, and that complainants should bear loss. They 
also said that they were dismayed that the investigator didnt see anything wrong with 
complainants having to pursue an award from this service by legal means when the entire 
point of this service is to avoid that. 
Our investigator reiterated that we werent able to look into all of Mr and Mrs S complaint 
because they hadnt referred some parts to us in time. This was why he hadnt addressed 
the parts of the complaint theyd been unhappy werent addressed. Mr and Mrs S asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
In light of Mr and Mrs S concerns about the limited issues the investigator had considered 
the merits of, I issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction. Both parties have confirmed 
they received that decision and so the case has been returned to me to consider the merits 
of the parts of the complaint that fall within our remit.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially I will comment on the matter of the transfer of the loan. As our investigator explained, 
the decision to sell the book of business (including Mr and Mrs S loan) to C was made by W 
and so it would be responsible for any concerns Mr and Mrs S have about the simple fact of 
the transfer. Once that decision had been made, Target wrote to Mr and Mrs S and 
explained what was happening and what it meant for them. They were given a number to 
call if they had any questions or concerns. Thats all I would expect to have happened, so I 
cant find that Target did anything wrong in this respect. 
In relation to the matter of the solicitors costs Mr and Mrs S incurred, Target has already 
offered to reimburse the cost associated with the application to the courts for enforcement of 
the adjudicators conclusions. That is reasonable, as Mr and Mrs S would likely have needed 
legal expertise to do this. However, I am not persuaded that they needed the assistance of a 
solicitor to correspond with Target. Having reviewed the correspondence, I dont consider 
the substance of it was such that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been capable of 
understanding or dealing with the situation themselves. As such, I am not upholding this 
aspect of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S are not convinced that the loan balance is right and want Target to show how 
its been determined. Target has provided a complete breakdown of the loan account, 
showing how the balance has been calculated, based on the payments made and the 
redress amounts applied. In light of that, it would appear that Target has given Mr and Mrs S 
what they asked for. If they want something more, Mr and Mrs S would need to explain to 
Target exactly what it is they want. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman