DRN-1705295
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Miss G holds with National Westminster Bank Plc. Shes 
unhappy that, having paid for a homebuyers report on the property she had chosen to 
purchase, she never received it before completion. She has now discovered serious defects 
in the property. NatWest has refunded the fee she paid for the report as a gesture of 
goodwill. Miss G believes the bank should pay for the repairs to her house. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
NatWest advised Miss G on which mortgage to take out; but it didnt advise her which type of 
property inspection to arrange, and it wasnt required to. All NatWest was required to do was 
set out the alternatives and invite Miss G to choose which one she wanted. Miss G says she 
didnt have enough information and was rushed in to choosing; Ill come back to that in a 
moment.
Once Miss G had made her choice and paid NatWest the appropriate fee (£333), all 
NatWest had to do at that point was instruct a suitably-qualified surveyor to carry out the 
report. From that point on, it was the surveyors responsibility to carry out the inspection, 
prepare the report with a reasonable degree of skill and care and, crucially, send it to Miss 
G.
If that didnt happen, then thats a matter for Miss G to take up with the surveying firm 
directly. If shes not happy with the response she receives, Miss G can refer the matter to the 
Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution. Nothing I say here should be inferred in any way as 
prejudicing the outcome of such a complaint, if made
Getting back to the complaint against NatWest, if Miss G felt she didnt have enough 
information on which to make a decision about which type of inspection she wanted, it was 
incumbent on her to ask for more information before making her choice. Miss G has said she 
risked losing her non-refundable valuation fee if shed done that.
Im not sure thats actually true; a valuation fee is only non-refundable if the inspection it 
pays for has been carried out. But in any event, Miss G exposed herself to the risk of a far 
greater financial loss when she went ahead and bought the property without having seen 
any kind of report on its condition. That was her prerogative, but it was also her choice, and 
Miss G must bear the consequences of the choice she made
.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman