DRN-2802101
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC allowed gambling transactions to go 
through on his credit card. 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr G used his credit card for two gambling transactions. The first 
transaction was made on 1 November 2020 for £35 and the second was made on 7 
November 2020 for £20. On each occasion, Tesco applied a cash transaction fee. 
Mr G complained to Tesco as he felt that these transactions and fees had led to him 
exceeding his card limit and incurring an overlimit fee as a result. Tesco didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary, they said that they had applied the fees in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Gs credit card. Tesco also said that although there was a ban on credit 
cards being used for gambling, this was outside of their control and was the responsibility of 
the gambling merchants.
Mr G wasnt happy with Tescos response and so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said that Tesco was entitled to charge 
the cash transaction fees as their terms permitted this and Mr G had been notified of this in a 
Notice of Variation that had been sent to him in April 2018. She also said that Tesco had 
likely made an error in its final response letter when it told Mr G that he had purchased 
foreign currency. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said that the Gambling Commission had introduced a ban on credit 
card use for gambling in April 2020 and that Tesco should have stopped the two gambling 
transactions he made. Mr G also said that Tesco had tried to pass these off as being foreign 
currency transactions which clearly wasnt the case. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr G used his credit card for gambling in November 2020. The crux 
of this complaint is whether Tesco should have allowed these to go through, and whether 
they were entitled to apply cash transaction fees if so. 
Mr G has referred to the ban on credit card use for gambling that was introduced by the 
Gambling Commission in April 2020. However, this applies to gambling merchants and 
relates to them not taking payments for gambling by credit card. It wasnt introduced for 
banks to adhere to as the Gambling Commission has no regulatory oversight over them. So, 
the ban in and of itself wasnt a reason for Tesco to stop the transactions Mr G made. 
Ive had a look at Tescos screenshots for these transactions and note that the gambling 
merchant appears to be based in the Republic of Ireland. So, there is some question around 
whether the gambling ban is relevant as this relates to operators that have a UK licence. 
However, Mr G would need to take that up with the gambling merchant he used. 
Overall, Ive not been persuaded that there was sufficient reason for Tesco to have blocked 
these transactions. Mr G hadnt, for example, contacted Tesco to explain that he needed 
help to prevent him from gambling. And the transactions were authorised by Mr G. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the credit card and specifically the Notice of 
Variation that Tesco sent to Mr G with his April 2018 statement. This states that Tesco would 
apply a handling fee of 3.99% (no minimum charge) of the amount of cash transactions. 
Cash transactions are gambling transactions.. Im satisfied therefore that Tesco was 
entitled to apply a fee of 3.99% for both transactions Mr G made in November 2010, and that 
Tesco applied this fee correctly. So, it follows that Tesco werent at fault for Mr G exceeding 
his card limit.  
For the reasons Ive given above, I wont be upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ive considered that 
Tesco said to Mr G that they applied fees because he had bought foreign currency. This 
clearly isnt correct. However, as I dont find that Tesco should have blocked the transactions 
in question, and as Im satisfied that they applied the fees correctly, I dont consider this error 
to make any difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman