DRN-4164863
The complaint
Ms C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In November 2021, Ms C received a message through an instant messaging app from 
someone who referred to her as Mum and said their phone had been damaged so they had 
a new number. Ms C assumed the message was from her daughter, so replied. After a short 
conversation, the messages said they had an invoice that needed to be paid today and 
asked Ms C if she could pay it for them. As Ms C believed the messages were from her 
daughter, she made a payment to the account details in the messages. Ms C then also 
made two further payments to the details the messages gave her. Ive set out the payments 
Ms C made below:
Date Amount
30 November 2021 £1,520
30 November 2021 £1,450
30 November 2021 £1,960
Unfortunately, we now know the messages were coming from a scammer.
The scam was uncovered the following day when Ms Cs actual daughter messaged her. 
Ms C asked her if her phone had been fixed, but her daughter didnt know anything about 
this and so Ms C realised she had been the victim of a scam. She then reported the 
payments to Monzo and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it didnt think Ms C had taken enough steps to check who she 
was paying and what for. It said it had followed all the correct procedures and acted in line 
with its regulatory requirements. So it didnt agree to refund the money Ms C had lost. Ms C 
wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Ms C and Monzo a provisional decision on 21 April 2023, setting out why I was 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Ms C fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is 
for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Ms C ignore an effective warning in relation to the payments?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us a copy of the warning Ms C was shown before she made the payments, 
which said:
Stop, dont pay. Its very likely this is a scam.
Remember:
Monzo will never call you without arranging by email or in-app chat first
Other banks will never ask you to move money out of your Monzo account
Check with your bank
Call your bank from the number on the back of your card For Monzo: 0800 802 1281.
But the risks this warning mentions are in relation to a scam where someone is asked to 
move money to a safe account because their own account is at risk, and so arent relevant 
to the type of impersonation scam Ms C was the victim of. The warning doesnt mention 
what an impersonation scam could look or feel like, with a scammer pretending to be 
someone the victim knows before asking for money. And the warning doesnt explain the 
seriousness of the potential consequences of sending money to a scammer, or give details 
of any steps a customer could take to avoid an impersonation scam.
So I dont think the warning Ms C was shown was specific or impactful enough to be 
effective in her circumstances. And so I also dont think Monzo has established that Ms C 
ignored an effective warning in relation to the payments she made.
Did Ms C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
These types of scams are particularly cruel and play on the trust and emotive nature of the 
relationship between a parent and their child. The initial message Ms C received referred to 
her as Mum and the instant messaging app the message was received through is the way Ms C usually communicates with her daughter. So I dont think it was unreasonable for her 
to assume the message came from her daughter.
The messages Ms C received then mentioned how the broken phone might be repaired, that 
the phone was insured, and asked about how she was doing before asking if she could 
make a payment. So there was a reasonable amount of conversation before making 
payments was discussed and I dont think the subject of the payments would have felt forced 
or unnatural. Ive also seen some examples of genuine messages Ms C received from her 
daughter, and the messages from the scammer use emojis in a similar way. So I dont think 
the tone or pattern of the messages were different enough that they should have suggested 
to Ms C that they werent coming from her daughter.
Ms C has also said that her daughter has to manage accounts and deal with invoices as part 
of her job. So when the scammer mentioned needing to pay an invoice, this seemed 
plausible to her and fitted in with what she knew about her daughters work. And I dont think 
its unreasonable that this reinforced to Ms C that she was genuinely messaging her 
daughter.
And so I think it was reasonable that Ms C believed the messages were coming from her 
daughter. And as shes said she then thought her daughter had an urgent problem, I also 
think its reasonable that she wanted to do what she could to help her daughter out. 
I think that there were some things about the situation which should have caused Ms C 
some concern  particularly that she was asked to make a number of payments to an 
individual she didnt know and that, according to what she had assumed, she was being 
asked to use her own money to cover the debts of her daughters employer. But I dont think 
these concerns were significant enough to overcome her initial trust that she was speaking 
to her daughter and her desire to help her. And I dont think they were significant enough to 
say that Ms C acted unreasonably in not carrying out any further checks and in still believing 
she was speaking to her daughter.
The messages also said the amounts had to be paid today and that they would increase if 
they werent paid today, so Ms C was put under time pressure to make the payments 
quickly. And the three payments were all made in just over two hours after the initial 
message Ms C received from the scammer, so there wasnt a significant period of time for 
her to stop and think about what was happening.
I also dont think the warning message Ms C was shown should have caused her significant 
concern as, for the same reasons Ive explained above, I dont think they will have seemed 
relevant to her circumstances.
So I dont think Monzo has established that Ms C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
when she made the payments.
Overall then, I dont think Monzo has established that any of the exclusions to 
reimbursement under the CRM code apply here. So I think Monzo should refund the money 
Ms C lost in full, under the terms of the CRM code.
I said Id consider anything further Ms C and Monzo sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Ms C and Monzo responded to the provisional decision saying they accepted the 
outcome. And as neither Ms C nor Monzo provided any further evidence or arguments, I still 
think the conclusions I set out in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same 
reasons.
So I dont think Monzo has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement under 
the CRM code apply here. And I think Monzo should refund the money Ms C lost in full, 
under the terms of the CRM code.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Ms C the £4,930 she lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially declined her claim until 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman