DRN-1229585
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch 
meeting in 1999. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr L.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L say that, to the best of their knowledge, they applied for the mortgage over the 
phone. They say there was no mention of PPI and they were unaware that it had been 
applied to their mortgage account. Therefore they are saying it was added without their 
knowledge or consent.
BoS says that the PPI was sold during a meeting in branch. It has provided copies of 
paperwork from the time of the sale. 
The Mortgage Application form has a separate section for PPI. Mr and Mrs L have both 
signed in this section to request the policy. This form is dated 10 May 1999. There is also a 
separate PPI application form, also signed by Mr and Mrs L on 10 May 1999. The PPI was 
set up to cover the mortgage repayments plus an additional payment of 25%.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ls 
recollection of events has faded. Based on the available evidence, I consider that there 
would probably have been some discussion about the PPI. As the policy was set up just to 
cover Mr L, and they chose to include cover of an extra 25%, that suggests that the couple 
had given some consideration to their needs at the time.
Also, Mr and Mrs L say they wanted to claim twice on the policy, the first time in 2002, but 
were told to try and avoid claiming as it would increase the premiums. This is a different 
issue from whether or not the policy was mis-sold, so I will not be dealing with it as part of 
this decision. However, the fact that they say they tried to make a claim on the PPI in 2002 
does indicate that they knew that they had the policy.Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs L have said. But from the wording and layout of 
the forms, I think that Mr and Mrs L would have known that the PPI was optional. It seems to 
me that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer 
remember doing so.
BoS advised Mr and Mrs L to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to them, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mrs L says her employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay, if she was off sick. But Mr L has said that he would only have received statutory 
sick pay. So it would seem to make sense that they chose to just cover Mr L.
Mr and Mrs L had some savings at the time, but having the policy would have allowed them 
to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Overall I consider that Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy and could have benefitted 
from it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr L was affected by any of those things. 
As I think Mr and Mrs L had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused them to change their minds. 
This means that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt have to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs L paid for it. But BoS has already paid Mr and Mrs L back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
To return to the issue of Mr and Mrs Ls attempted claims for a moment. Mr and Mrs L 
havent said who told them to try and avoid claiming in 2002 and 2010, so Im not sure if it 
was BoS or another party. Mr and Mrs L would need to make a separate complaint about 
this issue if they choose to do so.
Mrs L has said that the 2002 event related to her. But as Ive said above, the policy was set 
up just to cover Mr L.
The 2010 event related to Mr L being made redundant. This is something that would 
potentially be covered under the PPI (subject to meeting the terms of the policy). Mr L may 
therefore wish to consider making a retrospective claim to the insurer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
As I understand it, the PPI is still active. Therefore, Mr and Mrs L may wish to consider 
whether they still require it and cancel it if they decide they do not.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman