DRN-3466239
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SEs (Allianz) decision to 
decline a claim he made on his Housing Warranty Insurance Policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022, explaining that I was intending 
to uphold it. Heres what I said:
What happened
The subject of this complaint is a building comprised of several flats. In 2013, the 
building underwent significant renovation. This included the installation of an 
additional floor, comprised of three penthouse flats and a single ply membrane green 
roof system. As part of the renovation, the developer purchased a 10-year Housing 
Warranty Insurance Policy for the penthouse flats. The subsequent leasehold 
owners, of the penthouse flats, are insured under the policy for their rights and 
interest in the premises. The warranty is underwritten by Allianz.
Damage has occurred in each of the penthouse flats, and a communal hallway, as a 
result of water ingress through the roof. This means that, in addition to Mr T, the 
other leaseholders have also been affected. But this complaint has been brought 
solely by Mr T.
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  
acting as representatives or agents of either Mr T or Allianz. But for ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Mr T and Allianz by name in this decision  even when 
referring to the actions or arguments of their representatives.
In 2016, Mr T suffered water ingress in his flat, which he says he reported to Allianzs 
appointed agent  who initially sold the policy and completed the relevant technical 
inspections during the renovation. Water ingress was occurring around numerous 
service penetrations in the roof, including vent pipes and boiler flues. Mr T says he 
was advised at this stage, by Allianzs appointed agent, that the damage hed 
reported would not exceed the applicable policy excesses, so he wouldnt have a 
valid claim under the policy. Because of this, no claim was made at this stage and 
instead Mr Ts property management company carried out localised repairs by 
sealing the various identified ingress points in the roof with mastic sealant.
In 2020, further water ingress was noted to each of the penthouse flats (including Mr 
Ts) and a communal hallway. Mr Ts property management company initially 
reported the claim to Allianz in March 2020, but Allianz was unable to carry out an 
inspection at that time due to the pandemic. In May 2020, Mr Ts building 
management was taken over by a new property management company. This 
company, unaware that a claim had already been raised, issued another claim to 
Allianz in October 2020.
Allianz instructed an inspection of the roof in October 2020. Based on the report 
completed, it declined to cover the claim. Allianz has given several reasons why it 
feels Mr Ts claim isnt covered under the terms of the warranty. It says:
Mr T was required under the policy terms to provide written notification of a 
claim to Allianz. But it has no record of any notification, made to it or its 
agent, in 2016 as Mr T alleges.
The policy covers damage caused by a defect in the design, workmanship or 
materials at the time of construction. But Allianz says the cause of damage in 
2020 is the failed repairs carried out by the property management company 
in 2016. Based on this, it says the operative clause in the policy has not been 
triggered.
Even if it accepted that the circumstances here did trigger the operative 
clause, Allianz says the claim would then be subject to the terms and 
conditions of the policy, including any exclusions. Allianz says the policy 
excludes loss resulting from alterations or repairs, unless notified to and 
accepted by it in advance, which it says didnt happen here. The policy also 
excludes loss resulting from a lack of maintenance and/or resulting from 
shrinkage or wear and tear  all of which Allianz says apply to the failed 
mastic sealant.   
Mr T says the claim meets the requirements of the operative clause as damage has 
been caused by a defect in the installation of the single ply waterproof membrane. Mr 
T says no written notification of claim was made in 2016 because he was advised his 
claim would not meet the policy excesses and therefore wouldnt be valid. So, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy, he (via the property management 
company) took action to prevent further loss by carrying out localised mastic repairs. 
Mr T doesnt accept that the failure of these repairs is the proximate cause of 
damage. He says the fact that the waterproof layer is defective is the primary reason 
for water ingress. And as this was installed during the original construction, he feels 
Allianz should cover the claim. Mr T has also obtained his own structural engineers 
report, to support his view.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that for a claim to be successful under the terms and 
conditions of the warranty, there needed to be a defect (as defined in the terms of the 
warranty) which had been shown to be the cause of damage. She accepted that 
there was a defect  the inadequate sealing of the overlapping sheets of the 
waterproofing membrane  but she wasnt persuaded that this defect was the 
dominant cause of damage. She felt the damage had been caused because of the 
failed repairs in 2016, rather than because of the defect. 
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that reached by our 
investigator. Ill explain why below, starting with an explanation of the cover provided 
under the New Home Warranty Policy. What the warranty policy covers
Mr Ts policy document details the terms, conditions, and definitions applicable to the 
cover it provides:
Operative clause
The Insurers agree to indemnify the Insured against Loss not excluded 
herein. 
Loss is defined as:
 
The cost of Reinstatement of any part or parts of the Works which due to one 
Defect suffer Damage. 
Defect is defined as:
 
Any defect in:
(a) the Structural Works; 
(b) the Works in respect of Building Regulations: health & safety compliance 
discovered and notified to the Insurers during the Cover Period which is 
attributable to a defect in design or workmanship or materials which was 
undiscovered at the Date of Inception.
 
Damage is defined as:
 
(a) Building Regulations: health and safety compliance; or 
(b) Actual Damage; or 
(c) Imminent Damage; or 
(d) Ingress of Water.
Works are defined as:
 
All works completed within the curtilage of the Premises and any part of the 
Premises retained and worked upon in the construction of the Premises 
comprising:.:
 
(a) Structural Works
 
Structural Works are defined as:
 
(a) All internal and external load-bearing structures essential to the stability 
of the Premises; 
(b) Drains, walls and windows, plaster, ceilings, staircases, floor decking and 
screeds, chimneys and flues; 
(c) The Waterproofing Envelope. 
Waterproofing Envelope is defined as: 
External walls, external doors, external windows and cladding (including any 
non load-bearing facings and their fixings), roofing and any other Works 
above or below ground which provide protection against Ingress of Water.
Reinstatement, with respect to an ingress of water, is defined as:(i) where the Waterproofing Envelope is defective, the repair or replacement 
by similar Works in a condition equal to or substantially the same as but not 
better nor more extensive than its condition when new..
Reinstatement shall also include the costs of any work necessary to 
remedy the Defect in the Works giving rise to Damage.
The Policy also contains the following Claims Conditions, which Allianz says must be 
complied with to have a valid claim under the Policy:
 
Insurers liability under this Policy is conditional upon compliance with any or 
all of (c), (d), and (f) below.
 
Upon discovery by the Insured of Loss to the Premises which may give rise to 
a claim under this Policy, the Insured will at their own expense:
 
(a) give notice to the Insurers as soon as possible; 
(b) take all reasonable precautions to prevent any further Loss; 
(c) within 60 days of such discovery submit in writing such details of the Claim 
then available to the Insurers
(f) obtain authorisation from Insurers prior to commencing Reinstatement. Any 
such Reinstatement must not be delayed unreasonably by the insured
The Policy also contains some General Conditions, including: 
The Insured will:
(a) At their or the occupiers own expense, take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent Loss to the Works
Finally, the Policy contains a number of Exclusions which Allianz says apply to this 
claim:
 
(6) Indirect and/or Economic loss 
Any loss such as loss of enjoyment, use, income, business opportunity, 
inconvenience, distress or any other indirect or economic loss of any kind or 
description whatsoever other than as provided elsewhere in this Policy
 
(8) Maintenance or use 
Inadequate maintenance or the use of the Premises for any purpose other 
than that for which it is intended as stated in the Schedule
 
(12) Structural Changes 
Any alterations, repairs, modifications or additions of a structural nature to the 
Premises during the Period of Insurance unless the Insurers have been 
informed and if necessary the Policy endorsed, and any appropriate 
additional premium paid to the Insurers
 (14) Wear and tear or discolouration 
(i) wear and tear or other gradual deterioration; 
(ii) erosion or corrosion; 
(iii) any change in colour, texture, opacity or staining or superficial 
deterioration or marring of finishings or surface appearance or ageing 
processes; 
(iv) natural shrinkage or distortion or other gradually developing condition; 
unless caused by an otherwise indemnifiable Loss.
Technical inspections
Mr T has complained that Allianz (or its agents) failed in their duty to ensure that his 
property was constructed appropriately. He says the issues with the roof should have 
been identified during one or more of the many technical inspections which were 
carried out during renovation.
Allianz says that neither it nor its agents are responsible for ensuring the property is 
entirely free from defects. It says the purpose and scope of the technical inspections 
are explained in the policy document. Ive removed the name of Allianzs agent from 
the below:
During the construction period, [redacted] technical consultant will have 
carried out various checks of your property to ensure that it is essentially 
complete and to confirm acceptability for insurance by us (as the Insurers). 
However, this is not the same thing as a final snagging inspection that 
guarantees that the final quality of the home will meet your expectations; you 
are the only party who can do that. You should also be aware that the checks 
carried out by [redacted] cannot confirm that your Premises are entirely free 
of defects.
Based on the above, I dont think Allianz, or its agents, can be held responsible for 
the fact that there is a defect at the property  based solely on the fact that it 
completed technical inspections during construction. 
However, that in itself doesnt mean Allianz wouldnt be responsible for remedying 
the damage caused by the defect, as that is what the policy is there for. So, Ill go on 
to consider whether I think Allianz can fairly be held responsible for remedying the 
issues, under the terms and conditions of the cover it provides, in the particular 
circumstances of this claim and complaint.
The claim decision
Allianz has declined Mr Ts claim on the basis that the initial potential claim wasnt 
notified to it in 2016, and on the basis that the repairs carried out in 2016 caused the 
issues leading to the 2020 claim.
Ive first considered whether I think Allianz can fairly refuse Mr Ts claim on the basis 
that it says it wasnt notified of the potential claim or subsequent repairs in 2016. Mr T says he notified Allianz of the water ingress issues in 2016, and so satisfied the 
term of the warranty that requires the policyholder to notify Allianz about 
circumstances which may give rise to a claim. He says he was advised the cost of 
repairs would fall short of the policy excess, at that time. Allianz says it has searched 
its (and its agents) systems and can find no record of this notification. However, Mr T 
has provided the full name of the member of staff he spoke with, and Allianz hasnt 
subsequently advised that this person wasnt an employee of it, or its agent, at the 
time. So, based on the information I currently have and on the balance of 
probabilities, I consider it more likely than not that Mr T did contact Allianz, or its 
agent, in 2016 to report the water ingress. So, I dont think it was fair for Allianz to 
decline the 2020 claim on that basis.
Ive also considered Allianzs argument, in support of their decision to decline the 
2020 claim, that Mr T, or the property management company, didnt obtain its 
approval before carrying out the mastic repairs in 2016. Having done so, I dont 
agree that this offers a fair basis for declining the 2020 claim either. As a record of 
the call Mr T likely made in 2016 cant be located, aside from Mr Ts testimony, 
theres no record of what was said on that call, regarding who would undertake the 
repairs. But, in any event, the policy requires that the insured take action to mitigate 
the risk of further damage. So, regardless of who carried out the works, I consider it 
was reasonable for this work to be carried out. I also note that the exclusion for 
alterations or repairs requires that these be of a structural nature  which they 
werent in this case.
I also dont think that by carrying out repairs in 2016, that Mr T has prejudiced 
Allianzs position. Rather they mitigated the risk of further damage occurring, for a 
period of time. Whether or not Mr T submitted a written claim, he needed to complete 
the repairs to mitigate the damage as required by the policy. And there hasnt been 
any prejudice to Allianz, as it didnt need to carry out repairs or incur any costs at that 
time, regardless of the sequence of events. So, based on everything Ive said above, 
I dont think that Allianz can fairly refuse to honour Mr Ts claim, based on the fact 
that it cant locate a record of the claim notification, or because it didnt provide 
approval for the mastic repairs in 2016.
Ive next considered Allianzs decision to decline the claim on the basis that the 
cause of damage is not a defect in the original construction, but rather the repairs 
carried out in 2016, which have failed. Allianz has pointed to the report it had 
completed in October 2020, which stated:
3.2 The roof has multiple penetrations for vent pipes, boiler flues and 
mansafe posts. The majority of the services penetrating the roof have 
evidence of a historic repair. The building manager confirmed during the 
inspection that the repairs were historic having been undertaken by an 
unknown contractor on the instruction of the previous managing agent, to 
rectify the ingress. 
3.3 The repairs have debonded from the single ply membrane and are 
allowing ingress. It is likely the repairs have been undertaken using a product 
that is not compatible with the membrane and have failed over time. 3.4 There is evidence of historic local repairs being undertaken to the joints 
between copings. There is damage to the perimeter, mainly the corridor, 
which a parapet leak could be contributing. If there is a defect to the 
waterproofing below the copings this measure is unlikely to rectify it. 
3.5 The separating layer on the brown roof is a foam material and polythene 
sheeting. This is not suitable for use on a single ply roof. There is a risk that 
during the lifetime of the roof damage has occurred to the membrane and 
may be allowing ingress. 
5.1 The roof has been subject to defects for a number of years and the 
previous managing agent has attempted to rectify. These repairs are now 
failing and allowing ingress 
Allianz says the findings of this report confirm that the cause of water ingress in 2020 
is the failed repairs from 2016, rather than a defect present since construction. It says 
the repairs carried out in 2016 clearly resolved the issues as no further water ingress 
was reported for four years. It says the mastic applied in 2016 wasnt suitable and 
has degraded over time due to a lack of maintenance.
Mr T doesnt accept this. Hes argued that the repairs undertaken in 2016 were to the 
upper layers of the roofing system and not to the actual waterproofing membrane 
layer  which he says has been defective since construction. Mr T has provided a 
further expert report which states:
5.1 An electronic test of the single ply waterproofing indicated 33No. 
breaches. This consisted of 29No. open laps between sheets and 4No. areas 
of multiple cuts which appeared to be due to mechanical damage. A further 
20No. partially open laps were also located from a manual lap probe test
6.4 Numerous failures were detected at the overlap of sheets of the 
membrane. These appeared to be due to insufficient heat applied to the 
membrane during installation to achieve an adequate weld. These were 
predominantly to one side of the roof further indicating an issue during 
installation. Due to the large number of problems located, it is possible that 
further issues could occur in the future and at locations of the roof not 
inspected during this visit. It is, therefore, recommended that all laps are over 
strapped with a compatible membrane to ensure the roof is watertight.
Based on the available expert evidence, I agree with Mr Ts assertion that the 
proximate cause of damage in this case is a defect in the installation of the roof. I say 
this because Allianzs own report concluded that the separating layer used wasnt 
suitable for the type of roof, and because Mr Ts report identified a high number of 
areas where overlapping sheets of the membrane werent appropriately sealed 
during installation. 
Mr Ts report identified that mastic had been applied at all but one of the penetrations 
on the roof. And below the only penetration which hadnt been sealed, it identified the 
same installation defect located in numerous other areas of the roof  i.e. the 
inadequate sealing of the overlapping sheets (laps). Based on this, I consider it more 
likely than not that the installation defect was the proximate cause of the original 
ingress of water  in addition to being the proximate cause of ingress in 2020.Mr Ts report also included a moisture test which showed that, in addition to areas in 
close proximity to the previously repaired roof penetrations, there were high levels of 
moisture present in other areas of the roof. And Allianzs report confirmed that not all 
of the interior damage was in the vicinity of the previously repaired service 
penetrations. Both findings suggest that some of the water ingress was likely due to 
issues not directly beneath a service penetration (previous repair).
In my view, the repairs Mr T had carried out in 2016 werent to resolve the original 
underlying defect (which is still present). Instead they stopped the underlying defect 
from being an ongoing visible problem  and that, effectively temporary, repair has 
then failed in the medium term, exposing the underlying defect which was always 
present and never resolved. Therefore, I dont agree with Allianz when it says its the 
failed repairs which are defective, and causing ingress, as they likely only ever 
masked the underlying installation defect, rather than rectifying it. Instead, I consider 
the installation defect, and not subsequent failed repairs, is the proximate cause of 
damage in this case.
Mr Ts policy covers damage (as defined) which has been caused by a defect (as 
defined). As explained above, I think the damage in this case has been shown to 
have been caused by a defect. So, I dont think Allianzs decision to decline the 
claim, on the basis that the cause of damage was the 2016 repairs was fair, as I dont 
agree that this is the case.
Ive also thought about the various other exclusions which Allianz has said apply to 
the claim. But I think these exclusions would only apply in the event that the 
proximate cause of damage was the mastic sealant, as opposed to an inherent, 
construction related defect. As Ive stated above, I think the proximate cause of 
damage was the installation defect. So, I dont think Allianz can fairly refuse the claim 
based on exclusions for alterations and repairs, shrinkage or wear and tear either.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im currently intending to direct Allianz to accept and 
settle Mr Ts claim in line with its requirements under the policy terms. 
Im also intending to direct Allianz to reimburse Mr T for any costs, he can evidence 
he personally incurred, in obtaining his expert report. This is because the findings of 
his report have been material to my provisional conclusions, so I consider it fair and 
reasonable for Allianz to cover this cost. To this amount, Allianz should add interest 
from the date Mr T can show he was out of pocket to the date he is reimbursed, to 
compensate him for being deprived of the use of that money for other purposes.
I asked all parties to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr T responded highlighting how stressful he has found the circumstances of his claim and 
complaint, and his belief that Allianzs sole objective has been to decline his claim from the 
outset. But he also said he agreed with my provisional decision and said he looked forward 
to a final decision on the same basis.
Allianz said it was disappointing that I had provisionally decided against its position, but it 
didnt intend to rehash the arguments around liability. It maintained its view that Mr T didnt 
notify it about the 2016 claim in line with the requirements of the warranty. It also pointed out 
that it hadnt been provided with Mr Ts expert report until it was shared by our service in 
April 2022. Had it received this earlier, Allianz says it may have reached a different decision, 
or potentially instructed its own subsequent survey to test whether the defect with the laps 
was the cause of the ingress.Should I maintain my provisional conclusions, Allianz set out how it would intend to calculate 
a settlement taking into account that Mr T is not the owner of the roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the additional comments provided in response to my 
provisional decision. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Allianz has pointed out that Mr Ts alleged claim notification, in 2016, didnt meet the 
requirements set out in the terms of the warranty. It says the person Mr T says he spoke with 
didnt work for its appointed agent (who claims should have been notified to) but rather for 
Allianz directly.
 
Ive thought carefully about this point, but it hasnt changed my conclusions. While I 
appreciate the warranty document sets out the method for reporting a claim, on balance, I 
maintain that its more likely than not that Mr T did contact Allianz and speak with the person 
he has named. Based on the advice he says he received, I think it was reasonable for him to 
conclude that he couldnt make a successful claim at that point, which explains why no claim 
was notified to Allianzs appointed agent. I also dont think Allianz has been prejudiced as a 
result of this, for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision.
Allianz has also suggested that I should take into consideration the fact it didnt receive 
Mr Ts expert report, until recently, when deciding whether to direct it to cover the costs of 
that report. But regardless of whether it received the report earlier or not, the report has been 
material to my decision that Allianz should accept and settle the claim. And it wouldve been 
material to Allianzs decision if Mr T had provided it directly earlier too. So, Mr T wouldve 
always already incurred the cost of the report, regardless of when it was, or who it was, 
presented to. So, I think its fair and reasonable that Allianz should cover the cost of this 
report, plus interest.
However, I accept that the claim may have been able to be resolved sooner if this report had 
been shared with Allianz sooner. So, Im not intending to award any additional compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. I think accepting and settling the claim and covering the cost 
of the report, plus interest, is enough to deliver a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
Allianz has set out how it intends to deal with settling the claim. It says Mr T would need to 
provide signed confirmation, from the freeholder of the building, that he is authorised to 
arrange for a contractor to complete the works. This is because the roof is not demised to 
Mr T and is owned by the freeholder.
Following receipt of this confirmation, Allianz proposes to instruct its loss adjuster and 
surveyor to draw up a schedule of works which can then be put out for competitive tender. 
Once the work has been fairly priced, based on the tender, Allianz says it will be able to pay 
a cash settlement for the cost of the works to the freeholder, or whoever it has authorised to 
arrange for the works to be completed on its behalf.Its not for me to decide the process by which Allianz should go about settling the claim, as 
part of this complaint. This is a separate issue to that which was brought to us  whether the 
claim should be covered or not  which Ive decided it should be. So, Ill leave it to the 
parties to engage around precisely how the claim should be settled.
Allianz has also pointed out that Mr Ts expert report highlighted several large slits in the 
membrane which appeared to have been caused by mechanical damage more recently. 
Allianz says such damage would not be covered under the terms of the warranty  but it 
accepts this may be academic should the entire membrane need replacing.
I agree that this particular damage, in isolation, wouldnt be covered. This is because 
mechanical damage doesnt amount to a defect, as defined by the warranty. So, if settlement 
of the claim will not involve the wholesale replacement of the membrane, Allianz do not need 
to cover the cost of repairing this particular area of damage.
Other leaseholders in Mr Ts building have been affected by the same issues. So, it would 
be in Allianzs interests to settle the other leaseholders claims/costs, to avoid similar 
complaints. However, those leaseholders arent party to this complaint, so Im unable to 
make a direction for their interests in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE must:
Accept and settle Mr Ts claim,
Reimburse Mr T for any costs he incurred for his expert report, plus 8% simple 
interest* on this amount from the date Mr T was out of pocket to the date he is 
reimbursed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
*If Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman