DRN-4482557
The complaint
Mr M, a sole trader, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC restricted his access to his accounts
which meant that he couldnt trade.
What happened
On 19 January 2022, Mr M noticed that he was unable to access his Lloyds accounts. Mr M
spoke with Lloyds about this and was told hed missed payments on his Bounce Back Loan
(BBL) which meant the BBL account was in arrears. Mr M denied that he had missed any
payments or that there were any arrears on his BBL and asked the bank to restore his
access to his accounts. And, when Lloyds didnt then do this, Mr M raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr M and confirmed that his BBL shouldnt have been transferred to
their recoveries team and that as such Mr Ms access to his other Lloyds accounts shouldnt
have been restricted. Lloyds apologised to Mr M for what had happened and made a
payment of £1,250 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred.
Lloyds also said theyd consider reimbursing Mr M for any losses he could evidence that
hed incurred because of Lloyds blocking his access to his accounts. However, Lloyds
explained that they were unable to return Mr Ms account from their collections department,
even in acknowledgement of their mistake, and that Mr M would need to apply for new
Lloyds accounts if he wanted to continue availing of Lloyds banking services. Mr M wasnt
satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Lloyds issued to the
complaint  including the apology and the payment of £1,250 compensation  already
represented a fair resolution to what had happened, and they didnt feel that Mr M had been
able to provide tangible proof of any losses he claimed to have incurred such that Lloyds
should fairly be instructed to reimburse them. Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 July 2023 as follows:
In their response to Mr Ms complaint, Lloyds acknowledged that Mr Ms BBL account
shouldnt have been sent to their recoveries department and that therefore Mr Ms access to
his other Lloyds accounts shouldnt have been restricted. And I accept Mr Ms position that
because he is a solicitor, he was effectively prevented from trading while he didnt have
access to his Lloyds accounts, especially the business client account, as per the Solicitors
Regulation Authority (SRA) account rules.
Lloyds have said theyd be willing to reimburse any losses Mr M was able to evidence hed
incurred because of his being unable to trade. But given that Mr M was practically unable to
act or trade because of Lloyds error, I dont feel that Lloyds insistence on evidence of
losses is fair in this instance.
This is because as a solicitor, Mr M needs access to his client money account to be able to
conduct business  as per the SRA account rules. So, I can understand why Mr M felt it
necessary to close his business premises while he was unable to access his Lloyds
accounts, given that without access to those account he felt that he was unable to operate
within the rules of his profession. And as such I feel it would be unreasonable to expect Mr M
to be able to evidence a loss of business from potential new customers who couldnt
physically enter his business premises and engage with him.
Mr M has provided his business accounts for the years ending 2020, 2021, and 2022. Its
notable that for the two trading years prior to the events in question, Mr M had sales of
approximately £63,000. However, for the 2022 trading year, Mr Ms total sales dropped to
£47,275. This is almost exactly 75% of the annual sales from the previous two years, and so
I feel its commensurate with what would be expected if Mr M hadnt been able to trade for
roughly a quarter of that trading year  as was the case.
As such, I feel that its likely that Mr M did lose £15,725  the difference between £63,000
and £47,275  because of Lloyds blocking his access to his accounts, and so my provisional
decision here will be that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour and instructing
Lloyds to make a payment of £15,725 to him, along with 8% simple interest calculated from
the date Lloyds blocked Mr Ms account access to the date of the payment to Mr M.
However, I wont be provisionally instructing Lloyds to pay any further compensation to Mr M
as I understand he would like. This is because I feel that the £1,250 compensation that
Lloyds have already paid is fair in consideration of the upset and trouble that Mr M has
incurred because of not being able to access his accounts  including his feeling compelled
to open new accounts with another provider  and I can confirm that its commensurate with
what I might have instructed Lloyds to pay here, had they not already done so.
Im aware that Mr M feels that Lloyds actions have exacerbated the health issues he suffers
with. But I dont feel that it can reasonably be said that Lloyds actions must be the sole
reason for Mr Ms health issues worsening, and I feel that the compensation paid by Lloyds
already fairly takes any potential impact of Lloyds actions on Mr Ms health into account.
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that I uphold this complaint in Mr Ms
favour and that Lloyds must make a payment to Mr M of £15,725 plus 8% simple interest.
Both Mr M and Lloyds responded to my initial provisional decision, and this led me to issue a
second provisional decision, on 7 September 2023, as follows:
Lloyds didnt agree with my provisional decision and felt that my assessment of Mr Ms
business losses was speculative and unquantifiable. However, Im satisfied that I addressed
this point in my provisional decision letter, in which I explained that the nature of the losses,
arising as they did because of Mr M being unable to trade, meant that I felt it wasnt fair to
expect Mr M to be able to demonstrate his losses in the way that Lloyds were insisting upon.
And I also provided my reasoning whereby I quantified the losses Mr M had incurred by
reference to his annual accounts for the past three years.
Lloyds also noted that Mr M provides a wide variety of services and felt that several of these
services didnt require Mr M to hold client money. Lloyds therefore questioned why Mr M
couldnt have continued to trade but only provide services that didnt require him to hold
client money so that he wasnt in breach of SRA rules.But it remains the case that all of Mr Ms business accounts were unfairly restricted by
Lloyds at that time, meaning that he wouldnt have been able to receive payment for any
service offered. Additionally, Lloyds position here appears to assume that Mr M undertook
the work that did entail the holding of client money in roughly equal measure with work that
didnt, so that it remained feasible for Mr M to continue trading in the absence of being able
accept work that entailed the receipt of client money.
In consideration of this point, I asked Mr M about the nature of his trading, and he explained
that most of his work, roughly 90%, does involve the need for a client money account. And I
feel that the fact that Mr M felt the need to close his business premises and not trade in the
absence of his being able to access his business accounts supports this position  that
access to a client money account was of considerable importance to him.
Lloyds also felt that the Covid Stamp Duty holiday that was in place in 2021 meant that Mr M
might have had unusually good business that year as a one-off that couldnt reasonably be
repeated, and that other Covid restrictions that remained in place in 2022 may have also
contributed to reduced business income in that year.
But as previously explained, Mr M provided his business accounts for the years ending
2020, 2021, and 2022. And despite the impact of Covid-19 during this period, his income for
2020 and 2021 were very similar, with only his income for 2022  the year Lloyds unfairly
restricted his accounts for three months  showing a decrease in income of about 25%. And
I feel that a 25% reduction of business income is compatible with what would be expected,
given that Mr M hadnt been able to trade to 25% of that year because of Lloyds actions.
However, upon review, there is an aspect of Mr Ms trading accounts which I dont feel I fairly
took account of in my prior provisional decision letter. This relates to the paralegal costs that
Mr M incurred  and specifically to the paralegal costs which he didnt incur because he
wasnt trading for three months.
As a result, my position on this complaint has now changed, and while I still consider
£15,725 to be the starting point of Mr Ms losses  as previously described  I now feel that
its fair to deduct £1,605 from that amount, reducing the loss amount to £14,120.
This is because Mr Ms accounts for 2022 include paralegal costs of £4,820. But if Mr M
didnt trade for three months, then he didnt incur paralegal costs for those three months.
And on a pro-rata basis, the paralegal costs that Mr M didnt incur, but would have incurred
has he been able to trader, amount to £1,605. And I feel that this amount should fairly be
offset against Mr Ms losses, given that he effectively benefited by not having to incur those
paralegal costs while he wasnt able to trade.
Finally, Lloyds also argued that Mr M could reasonably have mitigated his losses by opening
business accounts with another provider. Notably, Mr M did do this, after trying to resolve the
situation with Lloyds first. But upon consideration, while I accept that Mr M would want to try
to resolve matters with Lloyds in the first instance, Im not convinced it was reasonable for
him to wait three months before acting to open new accounts with another provider. And I
feel Mr M reasonably could and should have acted sooner to open new business accounts
and to have mitigated against the losses that he incurred because he was unable to trade.
Accordingly, I dont feel that Mr M did reasonably mitigate against the losses that he incurred
here, and because of this I dont feel that its fair to hold Lloyds to solely accountable for
those losses as I previously had.
Ive thought about this point at length, and I feel that Mr M should reasonably have acted to
open new business accounts with another provider within a month and a half of his access to
his Lloyds accounts being restricted  given the importance of those account to his business.And because of this, I feel that Mr M himself should fairly be considered accountable for the
second half of the three-month period he was unable to trade  because he didnt take
reasonable action to mitigate against the ongoing losses he was incurring.
This means that my updated provisional decision here is that I feel that Lloyds should make
a payment to Mr M of 50% of his £14,120 losses  which equates to £7,060  along with 8%
interest on that amount.
Mr M also responded to my provisional decision and explained that he felt Lloyds should be
instructed to pay additional compensation beyond the £1,250 theyd already paid to him for
the impact of what happened on his health and wellbeing. And Mr M noted that he felt that if
he made a legal claim against Lloyds, he would receive a higher compensation award.
I can appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter. But this service isnt a Court of
Law and doesnt operate as such. And, while I acknowledge that matters of compensation
can be subjective, I continue to feel that the £1,250 that Lloyds have already paid to him is a
fair compensation amount for the trouble and distress that hes experienced.
In taking this position, Ive considered the impact of what happened on Mr M, as hes
explained it to this service. But Ive also considered the compensation and apology that
Lloyds have already issued to Mr M, as well as the general framework which this service
uses when assessing compensation amounts for trouble and distress  details of which are
available on this services website. And having taken all these factors into account, I feel that
£1,250 is a fair amount, and so I wont be instructing Lloyds to pay any more.
All of which means that my updated provisional decision here is that I uphold this complaint
in Mr Ms favour and instruct Lloyds to make a payment of £7,060 to Mr M, along with 8%
simple interest on that amount, calculated from the date Lloyds blocked Mr Ms account
access to the date of payment.
Again, both Mr M and Lloyds responded to my second provisional decision. And this led me 
to issue a third provisional decision on 14 November 2023 as follows:
Lloyds raised several arguments as to why they still felt my provisional instruction to Mr M 
was unfair. In the interests of brevity, I wont go into each of Lloyds arguments in detail here 
but will only say that Ive considered each argument and that I dont consider any of them to 
be persuasive.
Mr M also responded to my second provisional decision and explained that he had in fact
attempted to open new business accounts after approximately five and a half weeks, but that
the process of opening new accounts was complicated by the position of his Lloyds
accounts, about which the new bank to which hed applied wanted further information.
And Mr M has provided evidence to this service which Im satisfied does confirm that he did
act to open new business accounts with an alternative provider much sooner than I believed
was the case previously, such that Im now satisfied that the reason I reduced the award of
losses to Mr M in my second provisional decision no longer applies.
Mr M also argued that my removing of his paralegal costs on a pro-rata basis was also
unmerited. But I disagree with Mr M on this point, and I continue to feel that if Mr M was
unable to trade, there was no viable reason for him to incur this cost.
As such, my amended provisional decision is that Lloyds must make a payment to Mr M
equivalent to the calculated losses of £15,725 minus the pro-rate paralegal costs of £1,605.This results in a payment of £14,120. And it also remains my position, as per my prior
provisional decision letters, that no further payment beyond this is fairly required of Lloyds.
Mr M responded to this latest provisional decision and confirmed that he was happy to 
accept it. Lloyds also responded to my provisional decision and explained that they had 
offered to open new accounts for Mr M which they could in all probability have opened 
sooner than Mr M was able to open new accounts with a different bank. Lloyds therefore felt 
that because of this, they shouldnt be held accountable for the delay in Mr M experienced in 
opening new accounts with another bank.
But its clear from Lloyds notes on this matter, as well as from Mr Ms correspondence to 
this service, that Mr M had lost confidence and faith in Lloyds because of the significant and 
impactful error that theyd made here, as well as Lloyds inability to fairly rectify Mr Ms 
position. As such, I feel it was reasonable that if Mr M was forced to open new business 
accounts because of Lloyds mistakes, that he would seek to open those new accounts with 
a bank other than Lloyds.
Ultimately, Lloyds shouldnt have restricted Mr Ms business accounts with them in the 
manner that they did. And I feel that Mr M has incurred losses because of Lloyds mistakes 
that Lloyds should fairly reimburse to him  as Ive described above.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I uphold this complaint in Mr Ms favour 
on the basis explained in my most recent provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a payment to Mr M of £14,120 along with 8% simple interest on that 
amount, calculated from the date Lloyds blocked Mr Ms account access to the date of the 
payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman