DRN-1440784
 
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Santander UK Plcs decision to decline his chargeback. Hes 
also complained that they failed to respond to his communication and issue a final response 
to his complaint.
What happened
Mr D purchased a plant from a high street retailer (H) in June 2019. The plant began to die 
shortly after and Mr D contacted H to ask for a refund. H refused to authorise a refund for 
either the plant or the pot, which totalled £15.98. So, in July, Mr D contacted Santander to 
raise a chargeback.
Santander passed Mr Ds chargeback to their disputes team. But they responded saying the 
chargeback didnt fall within the card scheme rules so couldnt be progressed further. Mr D 
complained about this decision and Santander responded explaining the plant was sold as 
seen and didnt qualify for a chargeback. So, Santander directed Mr D back to H. Mr D 
remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She explained 
that, as Mr D had told Santander the plant was dying when he bought it, Santander had 
progressed the chargeback fairly and acted reasonably when declining it under the card 
scheme rules. She was also satisfied Santander had responded to Mr Ds communications 
and issued a final response as shed expect. Mr D disagreed with this view, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the distress this situation has clearly caused Mr D. I appreciate hes 
spent a significant amount of time and energy attempting to secure a refund for the plant he 
bought, which I have no doubts he was unhappy with. But I must also recognise that 
Santanders involvement lies solely with the chargeback. So, my decision has focused on 
whether Santanders decision not to progress the chargeback was fair based on the 
information they had available and the card scheme rules. And in this instance, I think it was.
I think its important to explain that banks dont have to raise chargebacks. If its likely a 
cardholder would lose for reasons such as a lack of evidence to back up the claim or that the 
situation isnt covered under the scheme rules, I wouldnt expect them to progress it further.
Ive listened to the call in July 2019, where Mr D first contacted Santander to raise the 
chargeback. In this call, he said the plant was dying when he bought it and it had since died. 
Santander explained they would send out a disclaimer to be signed and that any evidence Mr D had should be sent back in the prepaid envelope they provided. Mr D returned the 
disclaimer but didnt include any further evidence.
So, without any evidence to support the claim and considering Mr Ds statement explaining 
the plant was dying when he bought it, I dont think Santander were unreasonable when 
initially deciding not to pursue the chargeback any further.
Mr D challenged Santanders initial decision not to progress the chargeback and Ive listened 
to the call held in August where he discussed this at length with a complaint handler. The 
handler gave a thorough explanation about how a chargeback worked, how it was looked at 
under the card scheme rules and explained without any evidence it wouldnt be progressed. 
She also explained even with the evidence Mr D could provide, the claim would be difficult to 
prove as he purchased a plant and it would be difficult to pinpoint when it had begun to die. 
But she agreed to pass any additional evidence Mr D had to the disputes team to consider 
again which I think was a reasonable response. A review of the original decision was 
completed, and Santander wrote to Mr D to explain the original decision still stood.
As Ive explained, Santander didnt have to raise a chargeback. And even if they had, it 
would be the card scheme thatd make the decision on whether it should be upheld. So, I 
wouldnt expect Santander to progress a chargeback claim if it was likely to be unsuccessful. 
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly when deciding Mr Ds chargeback was likely 
to fail.
Santander have explained they believed the plant to be sold as seen meaning the plant was 
sold in its visible condition. Mr D first said the plant was dying when he bought it before 
saying that was an assumption, and that visibly he was unaware there was an issue. 
In the first scenario, Mr D admitted to purchasing a dying plant so its unlikely to have been 
upheld under the card scheme rules as he is admitting he was aware of its condition. In the 
second scenario, Mr D wouldnt be able to evidence when the plant began to die as the plant 
required maintenance to keep it alive. So again, I think its unlikely to have been upheld 
under the card scheme rules.
For these reasons, I think Santander have assessed the information and evidence Mr D 
provided fairly and acted reasonably when deciding not to progress the chargeback. So, I 
dont think they need to do anything further to address this.
I also think Santander have responded to Mr Ds communications reasonably, which is 
shown by their willingness to review their original decision. This was after the final decision 
they issued to address all of Mr Ds complaints, some of which were separate to the 
complaints Mr D asked this office to investigate. So, I cant agree that Santander have done 
anything wrong when communicating with Mr D and handling his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman