DRN-3570440
The complaint
Miss B complains about a conditional sale agreement taken out in her name with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited, to get a used car.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss B says her former partner, who Ill call A, completed an online 
application for a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, by using her personal details. 
She says A did this without her knowledge or authority to get a used car from a dealer. In the 
lead up to the signing of the agreement, a broker was used to handle the application 
between all the parties involved.
Miss B says she realised what A had done after a friend had told her. She says she 
cancelled the direct debit to Moneybarn and made arrangements to get the car back from A. 
Subsequently, Miss B complained to Moneybarn and told them her relationship with A ended 
in December 2019 and that she already had a car. She says there wasnt a reason for her to 
take out this agreement and A had acted fraudulently. Miss B also told Moneybarn that she 
had documents from a support worker and the police, to show that she was a victim of abuse 
by A.
In their final response to Miss Bs complaint, Moneybarn said that Miss Bs driving licence 
was provided when the loan was agreed. They also said they sent a welcome pack to 
Miss Bs address and that she hadnt provided further evidence from her support worker. So, 
Moneybarn told Miss B that they thought it was fair for them to hold her responsible for the 
balance due under the agreement.
Miss B didnt accept Moneybarns response and brought her complaint to our service. In the 
meantime, Moneybarn took the car back from Miss B and arranged to sell it. They used the 
proceeds from the sale to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan, which they are now 
asking Miss B to repay.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs case and found that Moneybarn had treated 
her fairly. He concluded that Miss B hadnt sent further evidence from her support worker or 
the police and that its likely Miss B did receive the welcome pack from Moneybarn. 
The investigator also said Moneybarn had contacted Miss B about the missed payments, but 
she hadnt initially responded. Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded that A had applied 
for the conditional sale agreement without Miss Bs authority.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigators findings and now her case has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I acknowledge the very difficult personal circumstances which Miss B has 
told us about. It must have been a challenging time for her and I hope her circumstances 
have improved over the last few years. 
The details used in the agreement
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss B says her relationship with A ended in December 2019 and that during the 
relationship, A was abusive towards her. I can see that when Miss B complained to 
Moneybarn, she told them she had evidence of the abuse from a support worker and the 
police. 
Miss B hasnt provided direct evidence about the abuse during the relationship, beyond what 
shes told us. So, while I empathise with the very distressing situation Miss B has explained, 
I need to consider the weight I can place on that, in the absence of the other information 
from the parties she relied on for support. Ive done this when looking at the circumstances 
leading up to the start of the conditional sale agreement.
With that in mind, Ive thought about the application and what Miss B, the dealer, the broker 
and Moneybarn have said happened at the time.
Both Moneybarn and Miss B say that although Miss Bs personal details were used on the 
application form for the loan, the email address and telephone number was different. I can 
see from the contact records for the account with Moneybarn, that the email address was 
used by a third party in May 2020. So, I think the email address used by Moneybarn when 
the agreement was signed, was that of a third party. 
However, Moneybarn say that Miss Bs driving licence was used at the time of the 
application, as well as her debit card. Miss B says A had previously taken photographs of 
these details and kept them stored on his mobile telephone.
On one hand, I think what Miss B says supports how A could have obtained her identification 
and debit card details. And how A could have used her personal details, but changed the 
contact information, so Miss B wouldnt find out about the application. Miss B also says she 
already had a car using finance from a different lender, so she didnt need another.
I also recognise though, that it isnt uncommon for an arrangement to exist whereby one 
party may use a car, but the finance to be in the name of someone else, like a family 
member.
The selling dealer has told us he remembers talking to a male about the car and he thinks 
that person had a partner with him at the time. The dealer also says it was the male who 
collected the car, once the agreement was in place. So, Ive considered what happened after 
the agreement had started, to help decide if its fair for Moneybarn to hold Miss B 
responsible for the repayments.
The contact with Miss B
Ive concluded that the telephone and email contact from Moneybarn at the start of the 
agreement was with a third party. However, I can see from Moneybarns records that they 
also to sent letters to Miss Bs address. From January 2020, Moneybarn sent a welcome pack, a VAT invoice, notice of a failed 
direct debit as well as other arrears and default notices, to Miss Bs home address. 
Moneybarns records also show that Miss B first made contact with them, to say A had acted 
fraudulently in June 2020. So, I think there was a six month period of time, where 
Moneybarn had made Miss B aware of the loan.
Miss B has provided us with her bank account statements from October 2019 until March 
2020. I can see where payments to Moneybarn have been returned unpaid in February 2020 
and Moneybarns records show that this continued in the months following. The bank 
statements Miss B has sent to us, also show a returned payment to the DVLA in March 
2020, related to the car taken out under the conditional sale agreement.
Miss B says A may have intercepted her post and he had previously accessed her email 
account without her permission. But Miss B also says A didnt live at her address in January 
2020. On balance, Im persuaded Moneybarn treated Miss B fairly, by sending information 
about the loan to her.
While Ive considered the extremely difficult circumstances Miss B has told us about, I think 
the activity on her bank account statements demonstrated a connection with Moneybarn. I 
also think the statements demonstrated a connection to the car taken out under the 
agreement, as the registration details appear on the transaction to the DVLA.
In all the circumstances, on balance Im persuaded that Moneybarn made Miss B aware of 
the conditional sale agreement in her name. I also think Miss B had an opportunity to raise 
this with Moneybarn around six months before she contacted them in June 2020.
During the complaint, the broker sent us details of the telephone contact they had when the 
application was started. The brokers records show they received a call from Miss B on 10 
January 2020, to discuss signing the agreement. But, a copy of that call isnt available. The 
broker has also told us that they didnt have authority to speak to anyone other than Miss B.
I accept that the recording of the call with the broker would be helpful here. But, based on 
the information we do have, I think its likely Miss B spoke to the broker before the 
agreement was signed. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence, on balance, Im not persuaded that A applied 
for the conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, without Miss Bs authorisation. So, while 
I know itll disappoint Miss B, I dont think its unfair for Moneybarn to hold her responsible for 
the amount owed under the agreement.
The outstanding balance owed.
I can see from the account statements of the loan that the proceeds from the sale of the car 
reduced the outstanding balance in June 2021. In light of my conclusions about Miss Bs 
responsibility towards the conditional sale agreement, it means Moneybarn may choose to 
ask Miss B for further repayment.
In doing so, I remind Moneybarn of their responsibilities to Miss B. In that they should treat 
her financial circumstances with due consideration and forbearance. This means any 
repayment plan Moneybarn looks to arrange with Miss B, should be sympathetic to her 
income and expenditure details.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman