DRN-2217129
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) dealt with her complaint about 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) and the amount of compensation it has offered 
to settle her complaint.
What happened
Mrs D complained to Lloyds in 2019, that PPI taken out with a chain of loans had been mis-
sold. Mrs D made her complaint through a Claims Management Company (CMC) at this 
time. Lloyds agreed to uphold her complaint and paid a total of £8,649.13 in compensation to 
settle the complaint. 
Mrs D was unhappy that she had to pay the CMC a fee for taking the complaint to Lloyds as 
she said she had complained in 2016 directly to Lloyds and received no response from 
Lloyds to her letter. She feels if Lloyds had dealt with her complaint about the mis-sale in 
2016 she would not have needed to pay the CMC fee and she wants Lloyds to refund this 
fee to her.
Lloyds has indicated it did receive a complaint from Mrs D in 2016 but this was about a joint 
mortgage and it had responded to that complaint. However, it did not receive any other 
complaint from Mrs D about any other accounts at that time. So no investigation was 
undertaken into the PPI sold with the loans until the complaint was brought by the CMC in 
2019.
Mrs D wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. She felt Lloyds must have 
records of her complaint in 2016 and should pay her the CMC fee. She also then said she 
was unhappy that Lloyds hadnt responded to a letter she sent in February 2020 about 
repaying the CMC fees. 
Our adjudicator said what Lloyds had paid in compensation was fair and the CMC fee didnt 
need to be paid by Lloyds. Lloyds also indicated to our adjudicator that it hadnt dealt with 
Mrs Ds letter in February 2020 efficiently and offered £50 for the trouble and upset this may 
have caused.
Mrs D remained unhappy that the CMC fee wasnt to be refunded and asked for an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld Mrs Ds complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I 
am not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what Lloyds has 
offered as compensation for the mis-sold PPI, is fair. 
When a business has mis-sold PPI we expect it to put the consumer, as far as possible, in 
the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the PPI. This means 
refunding all the premiums charged and any interest caused by the additional cost of the 
premiums. The business is also required to pay compensatory interest for the time the 
consumer is out of pocket at the rate of 8% simple per annum.
In this case there was a chain of four loans, the first two of which had PPI policies attached 
to them. The last two loans didnt have PPI policies taken out alongside them, but as they 
refinanced earlier loans, some PPI costs had been carried through to them.
I can see from the calculations Lloyds has provided that it has taken into account all the PPI 
costs incurred as a result of the two policies that were sold and also the PPI costs carried 
through to the later loans, causing more interest. In addition, compensatory interest has 
been calculated on the costs of the PPI for the full time Mrs D was out of pocket. So I think 
the amount Lloyds has worked out and paid for the total compensation, that is £8,649.13, for 
the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
The main issue now for Mrs D is that because the complaint was taken to Lloyds in 2019 by 
a CMC instructed by her, she had to pay the CMC fee, which was a percentage of the 
compensation amount. Mrs D thinks it is unfair that she has to pay this fee as she says she 
complained to Lloyds directly in 2016 about all the PPI she may have had with Lloyds, but 
Lloyds never responded. Mrs D says she followed this up in 2016 with a telephone call but 
was told her claim had been dismissed as no PPI could be found. 
Mrs D has provided a copy of the letter she says she sent dated 20 May 2016, but Lloyds 
says this was never received and it has no record of this on its records.
However, Lloyds has indicated that it did receive a letter from Mrs D that was dated 21 May 
2016 complaining about possible mis-sold PPI on a mortgage that Mrs D indicated was in 
joint names with her ex-partner. Lloyds has provided the response letter it sent to this 
complaint, dated 25 May 2016, and also indicated the records show follow up calls were 
made to Mrs D. Lloyds were requesting additional information about this mortgage PPI as it 
said it could not trace any mortgage or PPI based on the information provided. 
But Lloyds did not receive any response and information from Mrs D, so it wrote to her on 
22 June 2016 indicating it had closed the complaint as it had insufficient evidence and could 
not trace the mortgage and PPI based on the information provided. 
Mrs D has now told us she did receive the response about the mortgage PPI but did not 
receive a response regarding the other letter and the other accounts she may have had with 
PPI.
When Mrs D received the response about the mortgage account and PPI, that letter did give 
her rights to bring her complaint to this service if she was unhappy with the response. But 
she did not do so.  
Mrs D says she sent the letter about the mortgage PPI at the same time as the letter about 
the other PPI she may have had, so if Lloyds received one letter, they should have received 
the other. She says both letters were dated the same date. However, as Ive indicted earlier, 
the letters I have seen copies of had different dates on them, one was dated 20 May 2016 
and the other 21 May 2016. This would suggest they may have been sent possibly at slightly 
different times. And because one letter was received, that does not mean the other one was. 
Mrs D also recalls having telephone contact with Lloyds after she had sent the letter and was 
told she had no PPI. This may have been confused with the mortgage PPI as the letter sent to Mrs D in May 2016 said it could not trace any mortgage or PPI. On the records Lloyds 
has, it only has a record of the complaint about mortgage PPI, not the PPI with the loans. As 
Lloyds has no record of receiving the complaint about the other PPI Mrs D may have had, 
there is no file created and so no call recordings attached to a file about this complaint.
If Mrs D was unhappy with not receiving a response to a letter about the loans PPI in 2016, 
or thought Lloyds were saying it could not find any PPI, then she could have brought her 
complaint to this service at that time. The letter Lloyds sent to Mrs D in June 2016 did 
indicated Mrs D could bring her complaint to this service if she was unhappy with the 
outcome of Lloyds findings. But she did not pursue either the mortgage PPI complaint, nor 
the loans PPI complaint further, until 2019 through a CMC.
I have to take account of all the evidence available and also the submissions of both parties 
to reach a decision. And based on what I have available I cannot see that Lloyds did 
anything wrong in 2016 that led to financial losses for Mrs D associated with the sale of the 
PPI. Lloyds seems to have responded to the correspondence it did receive and gave referral 
rights. I have seen no evidence that the letter Mrs D sent dated 20 May 2016 about any PPI 
Mrs D may have had, was ever received by Lloyds. 
In 2019 Mrs D chose to instruct a CMC and agreed to pay its fees for it taking her complaint. 
If she had wanted to raise any concerns about PPI again herself directly, she could have 
done so and would not have incurred the fees she has. It was her choice to instruct the 
CMC, in the knowledge a fee would be payable by her. Therefore I cannot see that Lloyds is 
responsible for the costs Mrs D incurred to pay her CMC fees.
Also, Mrs D has received more compensation, paid in 2020, than she would have received in 
2016 as additional compensatory interest on the amount she was out of pocket. So she has 
been compensated for any delay in dealing with the complaint.
During the course of this complaint Mrs D also expressed she was unhappy that Lloyds did 
not acknowledge her letter in February 2020 raising the issue about Lloyds paying her CMC 
fees. Lloyds has Mrs D brought her complaint to this service before it investigated the issue 
but has accepted it did not deal with this correspondence efficiently and has agreed to pay 
£50 for the delays that occurred. Mrs D has agreed to accept this amount. I would indicate 
that I think it is a fair amount for the delay.
In summary, I am not persuaded that Lloyds is responsible for the fees Mrs D incurred as a 
result of instructing the CMC to represent her, so I am not upholding this complaint that any 
additional compensation is due to Mrs D.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding this complaint that any additional 
compensation is due to Mrs D for the mis-sold PPI associated with her loans.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman