DRN-3942898
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his account and registered his details with CIFAS 
the UKs fraud alert service.  Mr A would like £515.68 returned and the CIFAS removed.
What happened
Mr A had an account with HSBC.
On 28 September 2021 Mr A received a credit of £2,400 into his account.
HSBC blocked the account whilst it carried out a review.
They wrote to Mr A on 28 September 2021 and 7 October 2021 asking him to get in touch 
with them. They needed information about the funds paid into his account.
Mr A provided information to HSBC, but HSBC wasnt satisfied with the information he 
provided.
HSBC received confirmation from a third-party bank that the funds paid into Mr As account 
were not meant for him. Only £515.68 of the £2,400 remained in the account. HSBC sent the 
funds back to the remitter on 24 January 2021.
The account closed on 25 January 2021.HSBC registered Mr As details with CIFAS.
Mr A complained to HSBC. HSBC said they were entitled to close the account.
Unhappy with their response Mr A complained to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. He said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when they closed his 
account. He said Mr A wasnt entitled to the £515.68 in the account and he thought the 
CIFAS marker had been correctly applied. 
Mr A was unhappy with the view, he said the view suggested he was a fraudster. Mr A said 
he had been expecting the money he received as he was owed it- this person had confirmed 
that the money was from him. Mr A hadnt realised that an innocent third party had been 
involved in the transaction. Mr A had offered to refund the third party.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr As account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr As account and asked him for information about the 
funds received. 
HSBC decided to close Mr As account. As the investigator explained its generally for banks 
to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to 
any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly in closing Mr As account. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case HSBC closed Mr As 
account without notice. For HSBC to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
accounts as its already done. 
Mr A has said he would like HSBC to return £515.68 to him. I appreciate the frustration Mr A 
is experiencing however HSBC have shown that Mr A wasnt entitled to the money and Mr A 
has accepted that the money belonged to a third party. HSBC have returned the £515.68 to 
the remitter. I can see that there are provisions in the terms and conditions of the account 
that allow HSBC to do this. I cant see that Mr A has provided proof of his entitlement to 
these funds, so I wont be asking HSBC to refund this amount to him.
CIFAS Marker
Mr A has said he would like the CIFAS marker removed. He has mentioned that having the 
marker has made it very difficult for him to continue with his day-to-day activities.
Our investigator outlined in detail the level of evidence required for HSBC to record a CIFAS 
marker against Mr A  so I wont repeat it in detail here. But briefly HSBC need to be able to 
demonstrate that there are reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted. And that Mr A was complicit in this fraud or financial crime.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr As account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker against Mr A. Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied they have, 
and I say this because:
Ive seen evidence that another bank notified HSBC that the £2,400 received into 
Mr As account on 28 September 2021 belonged to an innocent third party. Most of 
the money was spent that day  only £515.68 remained in the account.
The credit had a reference of an unfamiliar name. Mr A has told us that he was owed 
money by a friend and although he didnt recognise the payment reference, his friend 
confirmed that the money came from him. However, Mr A didnt question this further.The bank wrote to Mr A twice in September 2021 and January 2022 asking him to 
contact the bank as they required information regarding the payment. Mr A didnt 
contact the bank and when he did provide the information, it wasnt sufficient to show 
he was entitled to the funds.
Mr A has said he provided evidence in branch that the credit into the account and 
subsequent transaction were carried out of his own volition and were legitimate. Mr A 
has said he used the money to invest in crypto currency.
Although Mr A has said the money received was from tutoring and repayment for 
damaged items, he is unable to provide supporting evidence.
Mr A has said hes happy to refund the victim out of his own money in order to 
remove the CIFAS marker.
In summary based on the evidence Im satisfied Mr A received a wrongful credit into his 
account. Mr A has said that the money paid into his account was money he was legitimately 
owed but he hasnt been able to provide satisfactory evidence of this or of the investment in 
cryptocurrency. On balance I am satisfied HSBC acted fairly when they registered Mr A with 
CIFAS, and I wont be asking them to remove the marker.
I accept Mr A has offered to repay the victim out of his own funds however this doesnt 
change the position, Im still of the view that HSBC acted fairly, and I wont ask them to 
remove the marker.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman