DRN-2539938
The complaint
Mr H complains about the contact from Cabot Credit Management Group Limited regarding 
a debt he says is statute barred.
What happened
In November 2012 Mr H opened a catalogue account. After payments werent made, Cabot 
bought the account in July 2015. Mr Hs account was passed to an agent of Cabots to ask 
for repayment of the debt and, when no payments were received, it then returned to Cabot. 
Following this they started getting in touch with Mr H to discuss the outstanding balance. 
As Mr H hadnt replied to their letters, Cabot attempted to call him on seven occasions 
between 1 and 20 November 2019. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained saying theyd not replied to his contacts when 
he got in touch about issues he was having with them. He also felt their contact was 
threatening, that one of their letters was misleading and that the account was statute barred.
Cabot replied and said in a previous complaint theyd told him theyd remove his phone 
numbers but hadnt, so were sorry for this. They didnt think their letters were threatening 
and they were satisfied theyd replied to his contacts within their service standards. They 
acknowledged they wouldnt be able to ask for payment from July 2020 as thats when itd 
become statute barred, so took the decision to close Mr Hs account.
Unhappy with this Mr H asked us to look into things. One of our investigators asked Mr H 
what he wanted to resolve matters. He said hed received no information about the account 
from Cabot and would like compensation for the stress and worry hes been put through.
Our investigator considered everything. He thought Cabot had legitimately contacted Mr H 
about a debt owned by them, didnt think their letters were threatening in tone, and felt theyd 
acted reasonably when deciding to close down Mr Hs account as itd become statute 
barred. But he didnt think they should have tried to call Mr H. In the previous complaint 
Cabot said theyd remove Mr Hs phone numbers from their records, so for him to get seven 
calls in less than three weeks  with one of the letters saying the calls wouldnt stop  would 
likely have caused Mr H concern. He felt Cabot should pay £100 to Mr H.
Mr H agreed with this, but Cabot didnt. They said theyd acknowledged theyd made a 
mistake in contacting Mr H by phone when theyd said theyd remove his numbers from their 
system. But they also said theyd not be asking Mr H to repay £2,579.63 so didnt think any 
further compensation was appropriate.
Our investigator considered this  but said he still thought £100 compensation was fair. He 
said Cabot hadnt done what theyd told Mr H they would do in the previous complaint  so 
Mr H realising Cabot still had his phone numbers would have caused considerable upset. He 
reiterated that it also wasnt a small number of contacts and he also acknowledged theyd 
closed Mr Hs account but said the account would have closed in July 2020 anyway. And, as 
Mr H seemingly had no intention of paying anything towards the debt, closing the account 
early, as it did, was also of benefit to Cabot.
Cabot didnt accept this. They said theyd agreed to close the account so any financial 
impact for Mr H had been removed. And in terms of our investigators recommendation to 
pay the £100 and not close the account that would have meant Mr H continued to be 
contacted.
Our investigator clarified he hadnt said to not close the account  but as the matter couldnt 
be resolved its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Cabot did anything wrong in how long they took to reply to Mr H 
and I dont think their letters were threatening. I do think Cabot have acted sensibly in 
January 2020 closing down Mr Hs account as it was going to become statute barred in 
July 2020  and agree with our investigator that this did benefit Cabot as well as Mr H. But, 
the key issue in dispute here is whether Cabot should have to pay £100 compensation for 
the telephone contact they made in November 2019.
Cabot have accepted theyve made a mistake here, as in a previous complaint they told 
Mr H theyd remove his phone numbers from their system. So, to start getting phone calls 
from them, without any warning, is something he said was distressing.
I can see why it would be. Particularly since he wasnt expecting them, had been told it 
wouldnt happen, and received a letter which said the calls would keep coming. I dont think 
the letter was threatening as Ive said above, but I do think that given all of the 
circumstances of whats happened Mr H was caused distress by this.
I do understand why Cabot would say that by closing the account and not contacting Mr H 
anymore this should be seen as enough to resolve the issue. But, as Ive said above, I think 
this benefitted them as well as otherwise theyd have been making contact with someone 
who wasnt going to pay, and where the account wouldnt be one theyd be pursuing in six 
months time anyway. And, when considering whether to award compensation I need to 
consider the impact Cabots actions have had on Mr H.
Overall then, Im satisfied Cabot have made an error, which has led to distress for Mr H, and 
its appropriate for them to pay compensation for this.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Cabot Credit Management Group Limited to pay 
Mr H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman