DRN-2236649
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, when he visited 
one of its branches to deposit a cheque into his account.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr G visited a Barclays branch to deposit a cheque. Hes said he queued 
patiently for fifteen minutes, but there was no movement, so hes said he left the long queue 
and went to the front door, to be told the terminals were offline.
Mr G complained to Barclays about the experience. In summary, he asked it why signs 
werent put up to say the terminals were offline, why didnt a member of staff come out and 
tell people verbally what was happening and he asked Barclays what the exact IT issues 
were with the terminals being down. Mr G also asked Barclays where the branch manager 
was when this was happening. Mr G told Barclays he wanted compensation for the issues 
hed experienced and an apology from the branch manager.
Barclays looked into Mr Gs complaint. It confirmed that on the day Mr G visited its branch it 
had unfortunately experienced difficulties with its self-service machines, but that the branch  
manager was personally advising customers how the branch could best support them. It 
added that while counter service usually finishes at 2pm, it had made the decision to keep 
them open until 4pm on that day.
Barclays apologised to Mr G for any mis-communication regarding the issues and confirmed 
that it did have signage for when self-service machines are down for longer periods and it 
had taken on Mr Gs feedback regarding the use of signs. It said the branch manager had 
passed on his apologies for the system issues and experience Mr G had received. Barclays 
added that it wouldnt be in a position to provide Mr G with the specific details of the issues 
with the terminals. Overall, while it recognised there were issues with its terminals, it felt it 
did its best to support its customers and didnt agree with Mr Gs request for compensation.
Mr G then brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he told us he was frustrated at 
not being able to deposit a cheque into his account and had the stress of not knowing what 
the state of the Barclays service was and how long it would take to function normally. He 
said hed had the inconvenience of having a wasted journey and having to find an alternative 
branch in order to carry out his banking. Mr G was also unhappy with elements of Barclays 
complaint handling process.
One of our investigators looked into things and concluded, in summary, that it would be 
unreasonable for him to ask Barclays to do anything further.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G is unhappy with the way Barclays handled his complaint and with some of 
its complaint handling processes. Im afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide 
complaints about regulated activities. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in 
and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mr G found the complaints process 
unsatisfactory, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the issues   
Mr G had with carrying out his banking. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I understand that Mr G has said a branch manager didnt go outside to update customers on 
what was happening with the terminals, whereas testimony from the branch manager 
suggests otherwise. Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it 
is here - I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
In the circumstances of this complaint Ive no reason to doubt either Mr Gs or Barclays 
recollection of events. I think it more likely than not Barclays staff did go outside to inform its 
customers of what was happening, but that it is more likely than not this was not at the 
specific time Mr G found himself queueing. Mr G has asked if our service has reviewed 
CCTV to see this  I havent, but I dont think its necessary for me to do so in this case in 
order for me to reach a fair outcome.
To uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Barclays had acted incorrectly or 
unfairly. And, on balance, I simply dont think thats the case. It is not in dispute there were 
issues with Barclays terminals, nor that there were queues.  And while it is unfortunate that 
Mr G had to wait, even if I consider that Barclays hadnt walked the queue line as regularly 
as they potentially could have done, it wouldnt change what I would expect Barclays to do in 
response to Mr Gs complaint.  
Im mindful that wider circumstances are relevant to this case. In March 2020, a pandemic 
was declared across the world. The associated lockdown in the UK was announced at very 
short notice and all businesses had to quickly adapt. In addition, the regulator of the financial 
services industry, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), published statements setting out its 
expectations of banks and building societies. They were expected to keep branches open 
where possible to support their customers, but also to take precautions to keep staff and 
customers safe. 
The FCA urged customers to use other means of doing their banking where possible. And 
Ive taken all of this into account. These were unprecedented times for everyone, and I can 
understand how this may have made a difference here, as customers were required to 
queue outside, rather than in the branch as would more typically have been the case had it 
not been for the unique circumstances. Im persuaded that under the circumstances 
Barclays, acted reasonably, which I consider is supported by it keeping it services open 
passed its usual closing time on this particular day.  I understand Mr Gs frustration and it is 
unfortunate he wasnt able to wait just a little longer, as I understand from Barclays its 
terminals were only down for a short period of time.Im also not going to tell Barclays to compel the branch manager to send a personalised 
written apology to Mr G, although I know thats what hed like towards resolving things. As 
Ive explained, Barclays has already apologised to Mr G and the branch manager has also 
extended his apologies, and I think thats a fair way for Barclays to have dealt with the 
complaint. I think the apology goes far enough to address the issue at hand. And Im also 
mindful that its rarely effective to compel someone to apologise for something  as the result 
is likely to be insincere or disingenuous.
Mr G has also asked for exact details of the IT issues that resulted in the terminals not being 
available. Barclays has told Mr G it isnt entitled to advise its customers of the specific issues 
with the terminals. In considering this complaint I dont think its necessary for me to 
understand the reasons why the terminals failed in order to reach a fair outcome.
While I dont underestimate Mr Gs strength of feeling. I think in the circumstances, in 
welcoming Mr Gs feedback and in apologising, I consider Barclays response to Mr Gs 
complaint goes far enough. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me to order 
Barclays to do any more, so I wont be recommending it pay Mr G any compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman