DRN-4245042
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc closed its account and sent the 
balance to the Crown.
What happened
The director of F explains that it had kept a savings account after its current account had 
been closed in 2018. When she tried to access this in 2022 she found that the account had 
been closed and the money wasnt available. She says she didnt receive any 
communication from Santander at the time that happened. F had been dissolved and it 
would be very costly to get the money back.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake. It received a notification that F had been dissolved. 
It said it wrote to F to say that the account would be blocked, and the money sent to the 
Crown. The account was closed after 30 days as F hadnt been reinstated. And it said that 
the director would need to pursue this with the Government Legal Department to reclaim the 
money.
Our investigator told the director that we wouldnt be able to consider a complaint if F didnt 
exist. F was subsequently reinstated. He said that Santander had provided a copy of a letter 
it sent in October 2021 explaining the position. He appreciated that the director said she 
didnt receive this and that it wasnt provided to her when she raised a complaint. This letter 
stated that Santander would be passing the funds in the account to the Crown as ownerless 
property. And that it would have to follow this procedure unless the company was restored. 
It said that the account would be closed, and no further transactions could be accepted. He 
didnt think that Santander had acted outside the terms and conditions of the account in 
closing it and there was no requirement for it to provide notice in these circumstances. He 
appreciated that F was dissatisfied with the way the complaint was handled but said that 
wasnt a separate regulated activity.
F didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The director maintained that 
Santanders complaint team should have gone through all this at the time with her. She has 
spent needless time and energy and she thought that under the terms and conditions of the 
account Santander should have helped recover the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that F has provided information about the background to its dissolution and that 
this hadnt been expected in October 2021. And about the costs of now addressing this. I 
appreciate that this was a potentially confusing and complex process especially given what F 
says about the limited scale and purpose of its business.  
Im only able to look here at what Santander did. It received a notification that F was 
dissolved. From that point it wouldnt be able to allow access to the account. I wouldnt 
expect it to do more than tell the director of F that and what would need to happen to access 
the money and why. That was set out in its letter of October 2021 which it says was correctly 
sent. I cant account for why F says that it wasnt received. In any event the position was that 
F didnt exist. And there would always then have been costs of dealing with the recovery of 
the money. Given this I dont consider that Santander acted unfairly in closing the account. It 
couldnt do anything more to assist the director in recovering the money. And I wouldnt 
expect it to provide any specific advice about how to go about that.
The final response letter in my view gave a broadly similar explanation of what happened. I 
understand how frustrating it was for the director then to be told that the original letter wasnt 
kept. And to later find that this service was given a copy as soon as F had been restored. 
But Im afraid I dont think that this materially changed the position for the director. Or 
highlighted any mistake that Santander had made in 2021 when it sent the money to the 
Crown and closed the account in line with its terms and conditions.
So, I know that the director of F will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further including to refund the money that I understand was over 
£10,000 or to cover the costs incurred in restoring F and further pursuing this matter. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman