DRN-2758380
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated her unreasonably when she contacted them 
about the loss of her credit card. 
What happened
Ms M had an existing account with Lloyds, in November 2020, Ms M couldnt locate one of 
her account cards, so she called Lloyds to cancel it. 
Initially there was a poor connection so Ms M felt the Lloyds agent (the agent) was talking 
over her, once the line had settled the agent asked Ms M how she could help. Ms M felt this 
was unusual and asked if they were going to go through the security questions first. 
The agent agreed to do the security checks first and asked Ms M a security question, which 
Ms M didnt get correct. Ms M then explained to the Lloyds agent that shed lost her card, 
and although she felt it had been lost locally, she wanted to cancel it just in case.
The agent cancelled the card and then asked Ms M if shed like her to check if any payments 
had debited the account that Ms M hadnt made. Ms M agreed and the agent asked her 
some additional security questions as the original question had been incorrect. As Ms M was 
struggling to answer the questions, the agent gave guidance on where Ms M could locate 
this information online. 
Ms M was unhappy that the agent had spoken over her initially and asked her further 
security questions, so she asked to raise a complaint. The agent offered Ms M £10 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the time taken to cancel the card and explained the different 
processes currently for raising a complaint. Ms M said that she wanted to hold to speak to a 
manager as they were unable to call her back.  
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They felt the agent had talked over Ms M as the line had 
been delayed in connecting  but this hadnt been deliberate. They also said that the agent 
had been correct to ask the security questions she had, and that shed followed their 
process. Ms M didnt agree and asked this service to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said shed listened to the 
call and she was satisfied that both Ms M and the agent had talked over each other as the 
line was bad, but this wasnt deliberate. She also thought that the agent was going to take 
Ms M through security if she hadnt asked the agent to do so first and noted that no personal 
details had been discussed at this point. 
The investigator thought that Lloyds were entitled to ask security questions in line with their 
processes and she was satisfied that the £10 compensation offered by Lloyds was 
reasonable for the length of the call. But Ms M didnt agree. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ms M told us she felt the Lloyds agent was rude when she called to make them aware that 
shed lost her card, but I dont agree. Ive listened to the call between Ms M and the Lloyds 
call agent and I thought the agent was polite and patient during the call.
I recognise that there appeared to be a time delay at the start of the call when there 
appeared to be an issue on the line between Ms M and the agent which meant they were 
talking over each other. However, Im satisfied that the agent wasnt being rude but was 
trying to obtain the information to locate Ms M as a customer. I heard Ms M tell the agent 
she was talking over her, which the agent apologised for and explained it was a bad line, so 
she wanted to confirm the information Ms M had given. 
Ms M also said she felt she didnt get the service she should have because the agent was 
working remotely. I acknowledge that there were issues on the phone line at times 
throughout the call, but I cant say this was caused by Lloyds or because the agent was 
working remotely as there is no evidence to support this. So I cant reasonably say Lloyds 
have done anything wrong here. 
Security questions 
Ms M told us that she was unhappy as she felt agent wasnt going to ask her any security 
questions. But I dont agree. I say this because the agent asked Ms M how she could help 
and when Ms M asked her to go through security she replied, Ok, I can do that first and this 
was within the first 90 seconds of the call. So Im satisfied the agent would have asked Ms M 
the security questions early on in the call before disclosing any information had Ms M not 
asked her to do so first. 
I recognise that Ms M also felt shed been asked more security questions than necessary. 
However, when listening to the call, I heard the agent explain why shed asked for the 
additional security questions. At around twelve minutes into the call, she said that shed 
needed to ask further questions because she was checking Ms Ms card transactions to 
check no unauthorised transactions had taken place.  
Ms M also told us that she felt the agent had been unhelpful, but I dont agree. Throughout 
the call, the agent tried to answer Ms Ms questions when they were asked, such as when 
she could expect her card. The only time the agent was unable to answer Ms Ms questions 
was when she was asking the agent about the security questions. 
I recognise that it was frustrating for Ms M to be asked questions that the agent knew the 
answer to, however had the agent disclosed the information Ms M wouldnt have passed 
security which would have meant a further delay. Throughout the call I felt the agent tried to 
be helpful, she guided Ms M through the website to help her and tried to explain why she 
was asking for the information. 
I also acknowledge that Ms M may have felt the agent was being ambiguous with some of 
her responses, however Im satisfied that this was so the agent didnt inadvertently give 
Ms M too much information. So based on the evidence Ive heard, I think Lloyds treated 
Ms M fairly. 
Time taken on the callMs M told is that shes been a long-standing customer of Lloyds and that she feels shes 
been treated badly by them and she was unhappy with the time it took to resolve this issue. 
However, the agent answered Ms Ms questions, and it appears from the call that Ms Ms 
issue was resolved by the agent at around sixteen minutes into the call. 
The agent explained to Ms M that if she wanted to raise a complaint at that point she would 
need to stay on the call, and I think she explained this clearly. Ms M told the agent that she 
wanted a call back from a manager, and the agent explained that this wasnt part of their 
current process. I understand this would have been frustrating for Ms M if shes previously 
received call backs when shes asked for them. 
However, the agent explained that due to the Covid pandemic, Lloyds had different 
processes in place and gave Ms M the three current options to discuss her complaint - which 
included Ms M calling back at another time. As Ms M was given the different options 
available at the time and said that she wanted to continue with the call, I cant reasonably 
say Lloyds did anything wrong by keeping Ms M on the call for the length of time they did. 
I recognise that Ms M feels strongly about this and shell be disappointed as its not the 
answer she was hoping for. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Lloyds have 
treated Ms M fairly by offering her £10 to resolve her complaint. So I wont be asking them to 
do anything more.
If Ms M decides she wishes to accept this offer she can either contact Lloyds directly, or 
given the circumstances of the complaint, she can also contact our investigator who will pass 
on Ms Ms acceptance to Lloyds on her behalf.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman