DRN-3200307
The complaint
Ms W complains about invoices she received from Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast 
Track Reclaim (FTR) for work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Ms W says she called FTR to take up their offer of a free check to identify whether she held 
PPI on a number of accounts. She says she told FTR not to contact Lender L as she had 
already contacted them direct and would be dealing with this complaint herself. Ms W says 
FTR then contacted her to say theyd located PPI on an account shed held with Lender L. 
Ms W says she raised this with FTR and referred back to her call during which she asked 
them not to contact Lender L. Ms W says FTR told her shed completed the PPI 
Questionnaire (PPIQ) for them to take the complaint forward. Lender L then upheld Ms Ws 
complaint and FTR then sent Ms W an invoice for payment of their fees  so she complained 
to FTR. 
FTR responded and said Ms W agreed their Terms and Conditions and they were asked to 
look into several lenders, including Lender L. FTR said they found PPI on accounts held with 
Lender L so they confirmed this to Ms W and sent her a PPIQ to complete. FTR said, had 
Lender L received a complaint directly from Ms W, they wouldve informed FTR. FTR said, 
by completing the PPIQ, Ms W gave them authority for them to proceed. FTR said, they 
submitted a letter of complaint to Lender L and they then received a final decision letter 
upholding Ms Ws complaint. FTR said theyd asked Ms W for written confirmation from 
Lender L that theyd investigated her complaint following her direct contact rather than FTRs 
involvement, but Ms W hadnt provided any evidence of this. FTR said their involvement had 
led to compensation offers from Lender L so they were entitled to their fee. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms W. He thought FTR hadnt acted unreasonably in 
charging Ms W their fee. Ms W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.    
Its clear theres a dispute here about whether Ms W instructed FTR to pursue the complaint 
against Lender L for mis-sold PPI. Ms W says she told FTR at the outset that she had made 
a complaint directly to Lender L in 2017, so they didnt need to take any action on this. FTR 
say Ms W signed a Letter of Authority (LoA) and also completed the PPIQ which 
authorised them to pursue the complaint against Lender L. Given the different accounts, Ive 
looked at the evidence and what I think is more likely to have happened than not.  
Both FTR and Ms W agree that an enquiry was completed during a telephone call. FTR say 
Ms W wouldve been asked which lenders she had held accounts with. FTR say the enquiry 
was then submitted and they then sent a link to Ms W in order for her to provide her 
signature. Ms W says, during this call, she told the call handler she had already made a 
complaint to Lender L in 2017 and didnt require them to make any enquiries with Lender L.  
FTR have provided a signed LoA authorising them to act on Ms Ws behalf in making an 
enquiry into PPI and to submit a letter of complaint against Lender L. FTR have also 
provided an audit trail which shows Ms W, when completing information online, wouldve 
seen the list of lenders they were making enquiries with  and I can see Lender L is included 
in this list. 
The Terms and Conditions sets out the agreement between FTR and Ms W and also refers 
to the steps FTR will take  this includes making enquiries into PPI and then preparing, 
submitting and pursuing a complaint against the lender. FTR have also provided a 
screenshot of Ms Ws online signature, system notes which show the signature was provided 
the same day the LoA was dated and a box with a tick agreeing to the Terms and 
Conditions. So, I think this information shows that FTR received signed instructions 
authorising them to pursue a complaint for Ms W against Lender L.   
FTR say they contacted Ms W to confirm PPI had been found on accounts she held with 
Lender L, so they sent her PPIQs to complete. Theres a call note which says Ms W called 
FTR to say she had received a text from FTR. The call notes say FTR informed Ms W the 
text was in relation to completing the PPIQs which had now been done. I cant see Ms W 
raised any issue at the time about FTR handling this complaint. FTR then submitted a formal 
letter of complaint to Lender L and enclosed the original LoA and PPIQ. Theres a letter from 
Lender L to FTR which says Please find enclosed a copy of a letter we have sent directly to 
our mutual client[s] The letter says Lender L have upheld the complaint and sets out the 
offer of compensation. FTR have then sent invoices to Ms W for the work theyve carried out. 
So, taking this all into account, I think the information shows FTR pursued a complaint 
against Lender L on instructions from Ms W. And, I think information such as the LoA and 
the PPIQ shows they were pursuing the complaint against Lender L. 
I understand Ms W says she told FTR during her initial call not to contact Lender L. FTR say 
they no longer have a recording of this call as its been more than 12 months. FTR also say 
they dont have any call notes for this conversation as it took place prior to Ms Ws enquiry 
being submitted so she didnt have an account at that time. So, while I think it wouldve been 
helpful to hear this call to determine what was discussed at the time, I think there is still 
sufficient information here to establish what steps FTR would be taking. And, as mentioned 
above, I think it was clear from the information provided by FTR that they were pursuing a 
complaint against Lender L.  In addition to this, I can see Ms W made enquiries with Lender 
L to ask for evidence shed contacted them in 2017 to pursue a PPI complaint. I can see 
Lender L write to Ms W to confirm they have no record of any previous contact regarding a 
PPI complaint. They say the 2017 complaint Ms W has referenced relates to another lender, 
not Lender L. In view of this, I think its more likely than not a previous complaint hadnt been 
made by Ms W against Lender L. Im further persuaded this is the case as Lender L, in their 
letter to FTR, refer to Ms W as their mutual client. And, I believe, had there been an 
ongoing complaint made directly by Ms W, Lender L wouldve made reference to FTRs 
submission being a duplicate complaint.    
I note Ms W says the Terms and Conditions werent signed. FTR say, before an application 
can be submitted, customers will see a statement online which confirms the signature 
provided on a previous page would be used to sign their Terms and Conditions. And, the 
application cant be completed without the customer ticking a box to confirm theyve agreed 
to the Terms and Conditions. The information provided by FTR does support this as it shows 
Ms W did provide an electronic signature and the Terms and Conditions were displayed, and 
Ms W was required to tick a box agreeing to this before her application could be submitted. So, while I agree the Terms and Conditions dont appear to have Ms Ws signature, FTR 
have explained the process involved in relation to a customer agreeing the Terms and 
Conditions  and the information provided by FTR supports this.   
Ms W also says the PPIQs submitted to Lender L werent signed. I cant see the PPIQs 
were signed but the case notes provided by FTR show that there was discussion between 
FTR and Ms W around completion of the PPIQs. I havent seen any evidence that Ms W 
queried or challenged FTRs involvement here. I do note Ms Ws concern about this not 
being signed but I dont think that should mean FTR shouldnt have progressed the 
complaint. As mentioned above, the signed LoA and agreed Terms and Conditions give 
authority to FTR to progress the complaint by submitting a formal complaint to Lender L.  
    
Ms W says, when she first called FTR, the call handler explained FTR would initially contact 
all lenders they hold an agreement with to establish whether there was PPI on any accounts. 
Ms W says the call handler then said they would notify Ms W of any PPI identified at which 
point she would have the choice to continue with FTR or take action herself. I do 
acknowledge Ms Ws point, but the information Ive seen doesnt support this. The Terms 
and Conditions say Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI check Period ends and you 
authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services. Theres nothing in the 
Terms and Conditions which says FTR will seek further authority to continue with a 
complaint once PPI has been identified. Both the Terms and Conditions and the LoA gives 
FTR authority to proceed with a complaint against a lender after PPI has been identified.    
I note Ms W is concerned that FTR have used a LoA originally signed by her at the start of 
her engagement with FTR to pursue the complaint with Lender L. And, I can see she 
believes a further LoA is required once PPI has been identified. I understand Ms Ws point 
but its not the case that a separate LoA is required after PPI has been found on an account. 
The original LoA signed by Ms W gave authority to FTR to continue with the complaint by 
preparing and submitting a formal letter of complaint to Lender L once they found PPI. I can 
see Ms W feels very strongly that FTR have gone ahead and pursued the complaint against 
Lender L without her authority and against her wishes. But, I cant see that has been the 
case here. Ive seen information which shows Ms W wouldve been aware FTR were 
pursuing a complaint against Lender L and the authority to allow them to do this was given in 
the signed LoA and agreed Terms and Conditions.   
Taking this all into account, I dont think its unreasonable for FTR to have acted in the 
complaint against Lender L. And, given FTRs involvement led to a successful outcome, its 
not unfair for them to issue invoices which are in line with their Terms and Conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman