DRN-3273636
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled a 
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs W booked a trip to a country Ill call P. They paid for flights and 
villa accommodation and they were due to travel between 14 and 28 September 2020. Three 
members of Mr and Mrs Ws family planned to visit P and stay in the villa with Mr and Mrs W 
for eight of the 14 nights.
However, in August 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
imposed restrictions which meant that travellers returning to the UK from certain countries 
would need to self-isolate for 14 days to protect against the risk of Covid-19. This meant that 
Mr and Mrs Ws family members could no longer go on the trip. The airline subsequently 
cancelled the pre-booked flights for the whole travelling party and refunded the costs.
Mr and Mrs W still intended to travel as planned. So they booked new flights with a different 
airline. However, on 11 September 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel. 
So Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip. While they were able to recover the majority of their 
flight costs, they made a claim for the cost of the cancelled villa.
UKI accepted Mr and Mrs Ws claim. But it didnt agree to settle the full costs of the villa. 
Thats because Mr and Mrs W had intended to share the villa with three others. So it settled 
a proportionate amount of Mr and Mrs Ws accommodation costs for the eight nights theyd 
planned to share the villa, together with the full costs of the remaining six nights.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with UKIs decision. They said that theyd always have had to 
pay the full costs of the villa, irrespective of whether other family members joined them. And 
they considered that the booking of their new flights following the cancellation of the original 
flights represented a new trip which only they had planned to take.
UKI maintained its position and didnt agree to increase the settlement itd offered Mr and 
Mrs W. It said the policy terms specifically excluded claims for the costs of anyone who 
wasnt insured under the contract. However, it acknowledged itd handled their complaint 
poorly and so it paid them £100 compensation in recognition of its errors.
Remaining unhappy with UKIs decision, Mr and Mrs W asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy 
terms made it clear that UKI would only cover the cancellation costs of people insured by the 
policy. And he felt it was fair for UKI to base its assessment of the claim on the original trip 
plans, rather than the amended holiday plans which followed the change in FDCO advice in 
August 2020.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They said it was their intention to book a villa which could 
accommodate others. They wouldve booked this villa regardless of whether they had 
planned for any guests to stay with them. The cost of the villa was a set cost, which wasnt 
influenced by the number of people who stayed in it. And they said they wouldnt have 
charged their family members to stay with them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think UKI has settled their 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether UKI 
treated them fairly.
Ive first carefully considered the policy terms and conditions as these form the basis of Mr 
and Mrs Ws contract with UKI. Its clear that Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip because the 
FCDO advised against all but essential travel to their destination. This is something which is 
covered by the cancellation section of the policy and so I think it was appropriate for UKI to 
accept Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
However, the cancellation section of the policy also sets out a list of specific things which 
UKI doesnt cover. One of these is:
The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are travelling with 
someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your portion of any costs 
even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
I think the policy terms make it clear that UKI will only cover the costs of policyholders who 
are insured by the contract with it. It clearly excludes the costs of people who arent insured 
under the policy, even if a policyholder has paid their costs as a gift.
In this case, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W say theyd always have booked the villa and 
paid the full cost of it irrespective of whether they invited anyone else to stay with them. But I 
need to consider the actual circumstances of a claim. Here, initially Mr and Mrs W planned 
their holiday with the intention of three family members staying with them at the villa for eight 
of the 14 nights theyd booked. Accordingly, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that for that 
eight night period, the cost of the villa was split between five people. Thats because five 
people were intended to make use of the villa and its facilities. Such an apportionment 
meant that Mr and Mrs Ws share of the costs for that eight night period was worth 40% of 
the total villa cost per night. And its on that basis that UKI has settled the claim for the 
period 14 until 22 September 2020  which was the date Mr and Mrs Ws family members 
were due to return to the UK.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W say they always planned to cover the full costs on behalf of the 
whole party. But as Ive set out above, I think UKI has specifically excluded costs which have 
been paid as a gift. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to decline to pay the accommodation 
costs attributed to Mr and Mrs Ws family members for the period they were due to stay at 
the villa.It's clear that Mr and Mrs W feel that the re-arranged flights following the family members 
decision not to take the trip and the original flight cancellation represent a new booking. 
Under such a booking, only Mr and Mrs W wouldve planned to make use of the 
accommodation. But I think UKI was entitled to look at the original holiday plans when it 
assessed the claim, as that was the trip Mr and Mrs W originally intended to take. The 
accommodation had also been booked months prior to the holiday changes and was 
intended to be used by five people for part of the time. And it was the original trip which was 
effectively cancelled by the FCDO self-isolation requirements introduced in August 2020. In 
my view, the change to Mr and Mrs Ws plans was more akin to a holiday amendment. I 
dont think I could fairly direct UKI to treat the new flights as an entirely new booking, which 
would lead to it being liable for the full costs of Mr and Mrs Ws accommodation.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position because I appreciate theyve been 
left out of pocket, I think UKI has settled their claim fairly. So Im not directing it to pay 
anything more.
UKI does accept that it made errors in its overall handling of Mr and Mrs Ws claim and 
caused some avoidable delays. Its paid Mr and Mrs W £100 to reflect the trouble and upset 
this caused them. I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs W were put to some time and inconvenience 
in having to chase up UKI and I think it was appropriate for UKI to recognise this. In my view, 
£100 was fair compensation to put right the errors UKI made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman