DRN-3366029
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about advice given in 1993 by United Friendly Insurance Limited to
transfer his deferred benefits in a former employers pension scheme to a personal pension
plan. United Friendly is now part of Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal
London). Mr H is also unhappy about what happened in 2013 when he purchased an annuity
with another provider.
Mr H is represented in bringing his complaint.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 24 February 
2022. I set out what had led to Mr Hs complaint and what Id provisionally concluded. Ive 
repeated that here.
The transfer of Mr Hs deferred benefits to a personal pension was reviewed as part of the
industrywide pension review. Royal London wrote to Mr H on 10 May 2001 with the outcome
and offering £4,384.24 to purchase extra units in the Managed Pension Fund. Mr H signed
the acceptance form on 8 July 2001. Amongst other things, it said that Mr H had accepted
the offer in full and final settlement of any and all claims against Royal London in relation to
the matter.
Ive seen that in 2013 Royal London provided information to Mr H about his options for the
policies he held (two of which related to the transfer  the original plan and the further plan
set up when the redress payment was made). Mr H was then 64 years old. I understand he
bought an annuity with another provider with the combined value of his Royal London
policies after taking tax free cash.
In December 2019 Mr H, via his representative, complained to Royal London. He made two
complaints. The first was about the transfer in 1993 and the second about the annuity
purchase in 2013.
Royal Londons final response dated 13 January 2020 dealt with the transfer. It said it had
been reviewed as part of the pension review and redress offered and accepted by Mr H in
full and final settlement. It also said that it was too late for Mr H to complain about it.
Royal London sent its final response about the annuity purchase on 5 February 2020. It said
it hadnt given Mr H any advice. it pointed to its letters setting out Mr Hs options, including
purchasing an annuity with another provider using the open market option, setting up a
retirement income product that kept his money invested or taking his pension fund as a
partly taxable lump sum. The letters said that Royal London couldnt give financial advice
and recommended that Mr H speak to a financial adviser.
The complaints were referred to us. One of our investigators considered them but he didnt
uphold them.
About the annuity purchase he said Royal London hadnt given any advice and had
explained to Mr H what his options were and that he may want to seek financial advice. And
signposted him to websites with details of local financial advisers.
In relation to the advice to transfer, the investigator referred to the pension review and the
redress which Mr H had accepted. The investigator said the pension review was designed to
be a one off way of establishing any potential loss and paying appropriate compensation.
The review only had to be done once, using assumptions set by the regulator at the time.
Royal London didnt have to revisit the transfer again. Although new guidance had been
published by the regulator in October 2017, it only applied where a review hadnt been done
before. It was unfortunate the assumptions set out by the regulator and used by Royal
London when they reviewed the transfer may not have turned out to be enough to make up
Mr Hs full loss. But there was no requirement for Royal London to revisit the original review
and recalculate their offer.
Mr Hs representative didnt accept the investigators view. It said it had asked Royal London
for details of the redress calculation but that hadnt been supplied and so it couldnt check if
it had been carried out correctly.
The investigator obtained from Royal London the calculations undertaken in connection with
the pension review which he shared with Mr Hs representative. The investigator thought the
information used was correct. Fund management charges had been included as part of the
calculation which had been carried out in line with the regulators requirements at the time.
He didnt think Royal London should be asked to revisit the calculation.
Mr Hs representative disagreed, saying the redress paid to Mr H was on the basis that it
would put right the loss. As a layperson he had no reason to doubt that. The DISP (Dispute
Resolution) Rules in force since 2015 dont allow this service to dismiss a complaint without
looking into its merits simply because it was dealt with under a consumer redress scheme.
The FG 17/9 Guidance says that it should be used to determine appropriate redress where a
firm didnt review the relevant pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory
standard or requirements applicable for the review of the transfer at the time.
The representative said that, in Mr Hs case, the review hadnt been done in accordance with
the regulatory standards or requirements at the time. First, there was no evidence that
enquiries had been made to see if Mr H couldve been reinstated in the occupational pension
scheme (OPS). A letter from the OPS to United Friendly dated 15 February 2000 supplying
information requested by United Friendly didnt mention reinstatement. Secondly, Royal
London hadnt used the correct cost assumptions for the personal pension, invested in the
Pension Managed UK Fund. An annual management charge (AMC) of just 0.25% had been
used, which wasnt plausible.
We asked Royal London about what Mr Hs representative had said. Royal London thought
we shouldnt be dealing with the complaint as it had been made too late. An offer to augment
Mr Hs personal pension was made and accepted in full and final settlement over twenty
years ago. Royal London maintained that the review had been completed as per the
regulatory guidance. And the possibility of reinstatement had been considered. The review
file made clear reference to that (see pages 71 and 81) but it was noted that the OPS didnt
accept reinstatement. There was no reason why that wouldnt be correct. Royal London did
reinstate customers wherever that was possible.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But first, as Royal London doesnt accept that Mr Hs complaint has been made in time, Ive
considered whether the complaint is time barred.
Were governed by the DISP rules set out in the regulators Handbook. DISP 2.8.2R says (as
far as is relevant here) that the ombudsman cannot consider a complaint thats referred to us
more than six years after the event complained of or, if later, more than three years from the
date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware)
that he had cause for complaint.
Mr H complained, in 2019, about advice given in 1993. Thats clearly more than six years
later. So his complaint will only have been in time if it was made within three years of when
Mr H became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) he had cause for
complaint.
I dont think Mr H became aware that he might have cause for complaint until his
representative looked into what had happened and told Mr H that he might want to complain.
On the basis that, although mis selling had been identified in 2001 and redress paid with the
intention to put him back in the same position hed have been in if he hadnt transferred his
deferred benefits,  what the personal pension had provided wasnt enough to match the
benefits Mr H had given up by transferring.
But although that might have been when Mr H actually became aware, I also need to
consider when he ought reasonably to have become aware. I think Mr H wouldve been
given a deferred benefit statement when he left his former employer and ceased to be an
active member of the OPS. Arguably he might have been in a position, over the years, to
compare what hed have got from the OPS with what the personal pension (augmented by
the redress paid under the pension review) might provide. But it can be difficult to make that
sort of comparison.
The deferred benefit statement may not have been easy for Mr H to understand. It might not
have been clear that the benefits would be revalued during deferment and what the pension
when Mr H reached retirement age was likely to be. Or any explanation about that might
have been complicated. The information about the personal pension (the annual statements
that Mr H wouldve received) may not have allowed an easy comparison with the OPS
deferred pension. Any fund value is unlikely to be particularly informative although
projections or illustrations of the income that the personal pension might provide at
retirement may be helpful. But sometimes the figures wont be easily or directly comparable
 for example if adjustments for future inflation are made.
I dont ignore that Mr H purchased an annuity in 2013. So arguably hed then have known
what the personal pension had provided and so couldve compared that with what hed have
got from the OPS. But Mr H also took tax free cash. And I think he combined the value of
other policies. There are also likely to be differences in the format of the annuity and the
OPS benefits which again might make a comparison difficult.
As things stand, I havent seen anything which persuades me that Mr H ought reasonably to
have become aware he had cause for complaint more than three years before he
complained. If Royal London doesnt agree and can point me to what it relies on then Id be
prepared to reconsider. But for the time being Im not going to say the complaint is time
barred.
So Ive gone on to consider the merits. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding
the complaint.
First, it seems that Royal London didnt give any advice to Mr H in connection with thepurchase of his annuity in 2013. And Royal London made it clear to Mr H that it wasnt in a
position to give him advice. So I dont think there can be any complaint that Royal London
gave unsuitable advice.
Royal London did have an obligation to provide information to Mr H about his options for the
fund(s) hed built up. Over the years what information had to be provided and when has
changed. But by 2013 the information had to include the open market option (the ability to
shop around for an annuity) and information about impaired life/enhanced annuities
including certain lifestyle choices and the sort of medical conditions that were likely to qualify
for an enhancement. Mr Hs representative hasnt said that the details Royal London
provided were in any way deficient.
Turning now to the complaint about the transfer, it is the case, as Mr Hs representative has
said, that the DISP rules changed for complaints referred to us on or after 9 July 2015 as this
complaint was.
DISP 3.3.4R (5) says the ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial
Ombudsman Service before 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the respondent has
reviewed the subject matter of the complaint in accordance with the regulatory standards for
the review of such transactions prevailing at the time of the review or any formal regulatory
requirement, standard or guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority or other
regulator in respect of that type of complaint. DISP 3.3.4AR, which applies to complaints
referred to us on or after 9 July 2015, doesnt include the same ground for dismissal.
But we havent dismissed the complaint without considering its merits. Weve looked into the
complaint but we havent upheld it.
Mr Hs representative has referred to the regulatory and legal position at the time and why a
transfer shouldnt have been recommended.
But I dont need to consider the merits  that is the suitability or otherwise of the advice to
transfer: Royal London, in effect, has conceded, when it undertook its review, that the advice
to transfer may not have been suitable. And Royal London then went on to undertake a
redress calculation which confirmed Mr H had suffered a loss and redress was offered and
paid. Against that background, the complaint is less about the suitability or otherwise of the
advice and more about the review in 2001 and the adequacy of the compensation paid.
As the investigator explained, the pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise. It
was implemented to rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers, as far as possible,
back in the position theyd have been, if they hadnt had poor advice. The methodology for
putting things right was set by the then regulator. Several assumptions, based on what the
regulator thought was fair at the time, were used in the redress calculations  including the
expected future growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at
retirement.
But, unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. Investment conditions have been far less favourable than anticipated. This,
combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided by the personal
pension. It was thought the lump sum compensation paid following the review plus the
existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the OPS at retirement date. But
this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
But that in itself wont be a reason redo the review and recalculate compensation. The
pension review was aimed at drawing a line under the matter with no need to revisit the
advice again. A business could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt beliable for future compensation; and consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for
complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement
already. It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period
would be excluded from the updated guidance. But, after the consultation period, FG17/9
said some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
Mr Hs representative has argued that the review in 2001 wasnt done correctly. And so the
redress should be recalculated using the new FG/17 guidance.
First I accept that reinstatement wouldve been the preferred way of redressing Mr H. But I
dont agree theres no evidence to show that it was considered. Royal London says it did,
where possible, reinstate. And the review documentation refers to reinstatement although it
says the OPS doesnt accept reinstatement. Further, the letter to Mr H dated 10 May 2001
(the review outcome) from Royal London said the OPS trustees had been asked whether it
would be possible for Mr H to be reinstated at Royal Londons expense but the trustees had
declined. So the contemporaneous evidence records that the possibility of reinstatement
was raised but the OPS wasnt prepared to reinstate Mr H.
On the second point, about the annual management charge used in the calculations, my
understanding is that the guidance said that future expenses of the personal pension should
be the normal basis of charges applying to that contract at the date of review. And that, for
the purposes of the loss assessment exercise, it wasnt permissible to reduce a possible loss
by assuming a reduction in the future expenses to be charged under the personal pension.
Coincidentally, Mr H has another complaint about advice given in 1993 to set up a personal
pension. All of his contributions to that plan were invested in the Pension UK Managed Fund.
Ive seen the policy terms and conditions which show that (although there were other
charges) the annual management charge for that fund was 0.25%. That would appear to
confirm that the actuaries who carried out the loss assessment under the pension review
used the correct AMC.
The pension review was a one-off exercise and in 2000 Mr H agreed a final settlement in
respect of the transfer advice he received. I dont think, although Mr H signed the
acceptance form in full and final settlement, that of itself means that I cant look at it at all. I
note that Royal London itself said, in its letter dated 26 July 2001 confirming that it had
increased (augmented) Mr Hs personal pension, that Mr Hs legal rights remain unaffected
by these actions and that Royal London would be happy to give further consideration to his
case if Mr H requested.
But its only in limited circumstances that Id look beyond that settlement agreement.
Although that would include where the calculation may have been done incorrectly, I dont
think that was the case here. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Royal London reviewed
the transfer and calculated its compensation offer in line with the regulators guidance. I dont
think there are any grounds for me to say that Royal London should recalculate the offer.
Mr Hs representative didnt offer any further comments in response to my provisional 
decision. And Royal London didnt have anything to add either. 
        What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further arguments, evidence, information or comments, my views 
remain as set out in my provisional decision. Ive set out above in full what I said in that 
provisional decision and it forms part of this decision. 
For the reasons Ive explained previously Im unable to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman