DRN-3092835
The complaint
Mr L says that TSB Bank plc (TSB) closed his Cash account without notice and it wasnt 
entitled to.
What happened
Mr L had a Cash account with TSB, which he opened in August 2020. He made some claims 
for disputed transactions on his account.
In December 2020 TSB closed Mr Ls account without notice. It said it had agreed with Mr L 
that it wouldnt open any more accounts for him. It also said it was a condition of Mr Ls 
account that he didnt have any other open current accounts. But he did have other 
accounts. So it said it was reasonable for it to close Mr Ls account without notice.
Mr L said this was unfair and caused him inconvenience. Hed like TSB to compensate him.
An investigator looked at Mr Ls complaint. She said TSB should have given Mr L notice it 
was going to close his account. She asked TSB to pay Mr L £50.
TSB didnt agree with the investigator, so Mr Ls complaint was passed to an Ombudsman.
The Ombudsman issued her provisional decision on 7 October 2021. This is what she said 
(in summary.)
She disagreed with the outcome reached by the investigator and went on to explain why.
She said, in her opinion both parties had played a part in what had gone wrong. 
She explained Mr L said that he was inconvenienced by having his account closed suddenly. 
He also said that because of a prior agreement with TSB, he didnt expect his account
application to be approved so was pleasantly surprised when it was. She said it wasnt in 
dispute that Mr L was aware that he should not apply for another bank account with TSB.
She explained that on TSBs online application process, it said:
This account is only suitable if youre not eligible for any of our other current accounts and
do not have another UK bank account
She said Mr L did have other current accounts at the time so he wasnt eligible for the Cash 
Account.
She said that TSBs terms and conditions stated that:
We can end this agreement and close your account straight away if:
youve used or tried to use your Cash account for something illegal
you gave us incorrect information when you applied for your Cash account and if
wed known the correct information we wouldnt have allowed you to open the
account
youve abused or harassed our staff to the extent that we believe your conduct could
be a criminal offence.
She said that as Mr L wasnt eligible for the account in the first place, it was fair for TSB to 
have closed it once it became aware. TSB also made other arguments, which the 
Ombudsman considered but didnt feel needed to be set out in her provisional decision.
The Ombudsman didnt think that TSB were blameless. She said it took four months to 
realise that Mr L wasnt eligible for the account. And though it had made an agreement with
Mr L not to give him another bank account in the future, it hadnt put steps in place to
stop this from happening.
Taking everything into account, the Ombudsman couldnt see that any material distress or
inconvenience had been caused to Mr L by having this account closed abruptly. For this
reason, she didnt plan to make an award of compensation. She said she was sorry if this 
disappointed Mr L but hoped he understood why she reached this conclusion.
The Ombudsman asked both parties to reply to her provisional decision with anything they 
wanted to add.
Mr L replied to say, in summary, that TSB should have given him notice, and hed like a final 
decision.
TSB replied to say it had nothing to add.
The Ombudsman who issued the provisional decision has now left the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So Mr Ls complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome that the previous Ombudsman reached in her 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons. In summary, these are:
Mr L was aware he shouldnt apply for another bank account with TSB before he opened 
the account.
Mr L wasnt eligible for the account as he had current accounts open elsewhere.
TSBs terms and conditions say it can close an account straight away if a customer gives 
it incorrect information. So it wasnt unfair for TSB to close Mr Ls account straight away 
when it became aware that he had other current accounts.
Although TSB could have realised sooner that Mr L wasnt eligible for the account, I dont 
agree that any material distress or inconvenience was caused to Mr L by having his 
account closed without notice. So TSB dont need to pay him compensation.
Ive not seen anything from either side after the provisional decision which would lead me to 
come to a different decision.Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont agree TSBs actions have caused him any material 
distress or inconvenience. So it doesnt need to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman