DRN-3363954
The complaint
Mr A complains First Complete Ltd, trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network, mis-sold him a 
mortgage protection policy in 2019. Mr A also complains that a PRIMIS appointed 
representative charged him £499 to arrange his mortgage and he feels this should be 
returned as the mortgage term wasnt what hed applied for.
What happened
Mr A made an offer to purchase a house and met with an appointed representative of 
PRIMIS to discuss arranging a mortgage. The appointed representative recommended a 
mortgage term of 17 years as this coincided with Mr As state pension age. And a mortgage 
protection policy for the full amount and term of the mortgage. After the mortgage application 
was submitted, the lender said it would only approve the mortgage over a longer term as it 
had concerns over affordability. The lender offered the same fixed-rate and increased the 
term to 24 years, and it started late March 2019 as did the mortgage protection policy.
Mr A complained to PRIMIS in June 2021 that hed been told to take out the mortgage 
protection policy to obtain the mortgage. He told PRIMIS he had no need for the policy and 
wanted his premiums returned. Mr A also requested a return of the £499 fee he had paid the 
appointed representative for arranging the mortgage.
PRIMIS provided a final response to Mr A. They didnt uphold the complaints because they 
said Mr A had agreed there was a need for the mortgage protection policy. And, the 
mortgage theyd arranged did complete, albeit over a longer term that Mr A had applied for.
Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things for him. The Investigator thought PRIMIS had arranged the 
mortgage for Mr A, and that as this had completed the £499 fee was payable. In respect of 
the mortgage protection policy, the Investigator wasnt convinced he needed or wanted the 
life insurance policy and because of this thought it was mis-sold.
Neither Mr A nor PRIMIS accepted what the Investigator thought. Mr A thought the 
Investigator hadnt considered a goodwill payment in addition to the return of premiums on 
the policy. PRIMIS thought the Investigator hadnt taken into account what had been 
recorded in the demands and needs statement theyd sent to Mr A, nor what had been 
recorded in the fact-find about his need for life cover. PRIMIS provided copies of the various 
illustrations the appointed representative had provided to Mr A at the time and asked the 
Investigator to reconsider.
As the Investigator had left the Financial Ombudsman Service, the complaint file was passed 
to another Investigator to review. The second Investigator reviewed the file and the 
illustrations and thought PRIMIS hadnt done anything significantly wrong. They thought Mr 
A had more likely than not told the appointed representative he wanted his mortgage to be 
paid off if he died so that his parents wouldnt have to be concerned with paying off the 
mortgage. The Investigator also felt it likely there had been a discussion about other 
protection that Mr A said he didnt have a need for as the illustrations PRIMIS provided 
suggested supported a discussion about the need for mortgage protection policy more than 
likely took place.
Mr A didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint. The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A has strong views about the £499 fee hes paid to the appointed 
representative and that he was told he had to take out the mortgage protection policy to 
obtain the mortgage. He believes the appointed representative sold the policy for his own 
benefit. However, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaints. I will now explain why.
Mortgage fee
Although Mr A feels the appointed representative didnt arrange the mortgage hed applied 
for, I dont consider this is the case. I agree the initial application was for a 17-year 
mortgage, at a rate fixed for 7 years, but the lender was concerned about the affordability of 
the mortgage and told the appointed representative it would only lend over 24 years. Mr A 
says he feels the the offer over 17 years didnt really exist, but Ive seen the appointed 
representative emailed him on 26 February 2019 explaining why the mortgage term had 
changed, and also enclosed a copy of the new terms. So, it seems more likely than not Mr A 
was aware of the reasons for the new offer and accepted it.
It's for the lender to decide the terms on which it offers a mortgage. And, in this case, it 
seems PRIMIS kept Mr A informed and he was prepared to accept the offer. Therefore, Im 
satisfied PRIMIS did arrange the mortgage and were entitled to any fee agreed.
Mortgage protection policy
Ive considered Mr As assertion that he was told he had to take out the mortgage protection 
policy if he wanted a mortgage with the lender recommended. PRIMIS have told me the 
appointed representative didnt say this to Mr A. Ive two very different version of events of 
what happened, but as I wasnt at the meetings between Mr A and the PRIMIS appointed 
representative, Ive looked at the documents from and Ive made my decision based on what 
I think is more likely to have happened.
PRIMIS provided a copy of a fact-find that says the appointed representative met with Mr A 
on 13 February 2019. It records personal details for Mr A, which included he had no 
dependents. It also recorded Mr A had an existing life policy, but that the level of cover 
wasnt in line with the proposed new mortgage. The fact-find also recorded Mr A had no 
dependents but that he thought it important his mortgage was cleared if he died so he left no 
debt for his parents to worry about. 
This adds some weight to what PRIMIS said happened, but it isnt enough on its own to 
persuade me Mr A accepted he had a need for the policy. However, Ive also seen that on 
18 February 2019, a demands and needs letter was sent to Mr A at the address he had 
provided. This summarised what had been agreed with the appointed representative at the 
fact-find meeting. It said, Although you are single with no dependents you stated it was 
important to you to leave a debt free estate for your family (parents). Your parents are old 
and you would not want to leave them with this burden. As the policy will be in sole names I 
have recommended placing the plan in trust. I have provided you with a trust document. Ive not seen that Mr A questioned this at the time, so I consider its more likely than not this is 
what he had agreed.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer from the lender that states there was no 
requirement for Mr A to take any mortgage protection policy to obtain the mortgage. Mr A will 
have received a significant amount of documentation around the time he took out his 
mortgage, but Ive not seen anything in the documentation supporting he was told he had to 
take out a new mortgage protection policy to secure his mortgage. So, in this case I think its 
more likely the appointed representative agreed the need for the life cover with him. And, 
although this isnt common practice, it would have ensured a significant part of Mr As debt 
would be repaid if he died, which is something he more than likely wanted to happen. I think 
the fact that the appointed representative suggested the policy be written under trust gives 
additional weight to the view that Mr A likely wanted his parents to benefit from the policy as 
a trust would enable them, or their representatives, to quickly and efficiently clear any 
mortgage debt to help with winding up the estate.
There is another aspect that I must consider  was the mortgage protection policy suitable 
for Mr A in the circumstances? Ive given this a lot of thought as the policy didnt match the 
mortgage terms after the offer was amended. However, Ive seen the appointed 
representative recognised this and in my opinion its more likely than not Mr A wanted to 
continue payments on his mortgage for 17 years and adjust the payments accordingly. The 
appointed representative emailed Mr A on 26 February 2019 and said, I have not amended 
your protection plan to reflect your new mortgage term as you have stated quite clearly that 
you plan on paying the mortgage off in 17 years so will run your mortgage as if it is setup in 
this way. I consider it reasonable for me to conclude this was Mr As intention to run the 
mortgage for 17 years as Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr A told the appointed 
representative this wasnt the case. In my view, if Mr A did this, the policy would reasonably 
have provided a suitable level of cover for the term, although it was cancelled in 2021.
For the reasons Ive provided above, Ive decided the mortgage protection policy was 
suitable and it wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold the complaints Mr A made against First Complete Ltd, trading as 
PRIMIS Mortgage Network.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman