DRN-3229076
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have 
unfairly declined their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Please note for ease Ill refer to Mrs H throughout this decision as she has been the primary 
complainant. 
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mrs H says due to an injury, she was using a bath stool in her bath to have sit-down 
showers. The stool broke whilst she was sitting on it and caused her to fall. She says the 
stool caused a chip in the bath and water was escaping. 
Mrs H had a couple of plumbers attend to see if the chip in the bath could be repaired. One 
agreed to try and do a repair but said it might not be successful. When the repair failed, Mrs 
H went ahead with the claim through her insurer  Lloyds.
Mrs H says she felt Lloyds were too preoccupied with the separate escape of water issue 
resulting in damage to the floor. And it overlooked the main point of her claim, which was for 
the bath to be replaced. 
Lloyds has declined the escape of water claim and says its due to wear and tear. It says it 
also considered the damage to the bath under the accidental damage part of the policy. But 
believes the damage isnt consistent with a one-off incident, and the damage has been 
caused by wear and tear  using the stool over a period of time causing pressure points on 
the bath. 
Our investigator hasnt upheld the complaint. He felt that it was fair based on the evidence 
provided for Lloyds to decline both claims for the escape of water and accidental damage. 
Mrs H requested that the case be looked at again by an ombudsman.
I can see Mrs H was hoping to provide a further report from her plumber  this hasnt been 
forthcoming, so Im therefore making this final decision on the evidence available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the policy cover. I can see it includes cover for accidental damage claims 
and escape of water claims up to the value of £75,000 with relevant excesses applying to 
each section. But it excludes any claims relating to damage caused by wear and tear. 
I think it is worth mentioning here that its the responsibility of the policyholder to evidence 
that an insurable loss has occurred when making a claim to their insurer. I understand Mrs H 
initially contacted her insurer to put it on notice of a possible claim on the advice of her 
plumber who tried to repair the chip in the bath. As he told her it is quite common for this 
type of repair to fail. 
Escape of water claim  damage to floor
Lloyds appointed a contractor to attend the property to assess and survey the claim. The 
report says there is no insured cause and says the damage is caused by a natural 
breakdown of materials. It goes onto say There is a lot of moisture between the chipboard 
and vinyl, with extensive mold growth. It is unknown where the escape of water is from but 
there is no moisture around the bath trap or the chip. There is staining underneath the bath. 
The damage to the floor is outside of the location of the bath. The WC is leaning, likely due 
to the condition of the sub-floor which is clearly soft underfoot due to an ongoing issue.
Mrs H has said there was no sign of damage until the bath chipped and released the water 
onto the floor. And it was only after the incident that the floor started to bubble and feel soft 
underfoot. Mrs H also said her plumber told her its likely dry mould was always there 
underneath the flooring but got worse and became visible when the floor was saturated from 
the chip. 
I understand that this was what Mrs H was told, and whilst this may be possible, Ive not 
seen evidence to support what the plumber has told her. So, Im more persuaded from the 
report and pictures that Ive been supplied with by the specialist, Lloyds contracted.
Im satisfied the damage to the floor isnt consistent with a one-off event of water leaking 
from the chip in the bath and it was fair for Lloyds to decline the flooring under the policy 
exclusion for wear and tear.
Accidental damage  damage to bath
Mrs H has said that she felt Lloyds focused its attention more on the escape of water rather 
than the damage to the bath. And from what Ive seen I would agree. The report completed 
by the contractor certainly focuses its attention more on the flooring than the bath. I can see 
our investigator has already raised this issue with Lloyds and it has accepted it couldve 
done better and has taken the feedback onboard. But it says this hasnt made a difference to 
the overall outcome of the claims and ultimately it is for the consumer to evidence that an 
insurable loss has occurred. 
Mrs H has said the chip in the bath happened when the stool broke whilst she was 
showering in the bath. When this was put to Lloyds contractor, he said I cannot confirm 
what caused the damage to the bath, it is highly unlikely the plastic stool caused damage to 
the bath. The bath is cast iron, the enamel has been chipped exposing the core.
Mrs H clarified that the bath was actually made of steel not cast iron but when this was put to 
Lloyds, it still said regardless of it being cast iron or steel it couldnt see that a plastic stool 
wouldve caused this type of damage to either of those materials in a one-off event on a bath 
that is made of a heavier grade. 
I understand the bath has since been replaced so it cant be further inspected. Ive therefore 
relied on what Mrs H has told us and the report and comments from Lloyds contractor. I 
understand Mrs H was hoping that the plumber that did the repair would also be able to send 
a report on his findings as he too saw the bath first-hand. But as mentioned above this hasnt 
been forthcoming. So, on balance I think its unlikely that the damage to the bath was caused in a one-off event by the stool breaking given the comments from the engineer that 
saw the damage to the bath first-hand. However, If Mrs H can obtain a further report from 
one or both plumbers that inspected her bath, shell need to forward it to Lloyds, and Id 
expect it to reconsider its position accordingly.  
Im therefore not instructing Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman