DRN-2174944
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down their business interruption insurance claim, after they were forced to close due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Ms S, director of F, has complained on Fs behalf. She has been helped in bringing this 
complaint to us by a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Ms S. 
What happened
F holds a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. Ms S claimed on Fs policy after 
they were required to close due to the Government Act in response to Covid-19. 
Allianz said that, under the Notifiable Disease section in Fs policy, F would only be covered 
if there was an identifiable outbreak of Covid-19 at their premises. Allianz said the policy 
wouldnt provide cover for Fs business interruption if it was due to the national coronavirus 
crisis, rather than an outbreak at the premises. As Ms S hadnt identified a case at Fs 
premises, Allianz turned down Fs claim. 
 
As Ms S was unhappy with Allianzs response, she brought Fs complaint to our service. She 
explained the impact that lockdown was having on F and felt Allianz should pay their claim, 
because theyd had no option other than to close. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Allianz had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the 
premises. And Ms S had confirmed the closure was due to the Government Act rather than 
because of a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Ms S didnt think it was fair for the policy to only provide cover if there was an occurrence of 
Covid-19 at Fs premises. She said theyd suffered months of loss and had been forced to 
shut by the Government. She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
After asking for an ombudsmans decision Ms S said F had later made a new claim, due to 
someone at the premises having Covid-19. She said Allianz had also turned down that 
claim. Ms S also said that when renewing her policy, the wording had been changed, 
indicating that there must have been something wrong with the wording of the policy in place 
at the time of Fs first claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact lockdown had on F. But for the same reasons the 
investigator set out, I wont be upholding Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Fs claim. 
There is an extension to the policy with the heading premises closure or restrictions, which 
covers: 
a    closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval of the                                     
Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable Human 
Disease occurring at the Premises
b    injury or illness sustained by any person caused by or traceable to foreign or injurious 
matter in food or drink sold from the Premises by the Insured
c    vermin and pests at the Premises
d   closure of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority consequent 
upon defects in the drains and other sanitation at the Premises
e    murder or suicide occurring at the Premises
Im going to focus on a as the others clearly arent relevant to Fs claim. 
Notifiable Human Disease is defined as: 
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a    food or drink poisoning
b    any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them
Covid-19 is a Notifiable Disease, as defined by the policy, but I dont think this extension 
covers Fs claim. I say that because the policy requires the interruption or interference to Fs 
business to have been because there was a case of the notifiable disease occurring at the 
premises. Ms S has confirmed that she closed the premises as a result of the Government-
imposed lockdown, rather than because there was a case of Covid-19 at Fs premises. 
I understand F has since made another claim, due to there being an occurrence of Covid-19 
at the premises. However, as thats a separate claim Im not going to consider that within this 
decision. 
Ms S has provided a copy of Fs new policy to show that the definition of Notifiable Human 
Disease has now changed, to specifically exclude any coronavirus disease. However, I dont 
think this makes a difference to Fs claim, as Im satisfied that it wasnt covered under the 
wording in the policy in place at the time of the claim. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms S. But having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Allianz to pay the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman