DRN-3766019
The complaint
Mr B complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd (BHI) unfairly
cancelled his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to BHI, I refer to the above-named company and I include the intermediary and
others insofar as I hold BHI responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr B had a hatchback car with a 08 registration. He took out insurance for that car for the
year from mid-October 2021. The policy was branded with the name of an insurance
intermediary. The certificate of insurance was signed by the intermediary for and on behalf of
BHI, which was the underwriter of the policy.
From early April 2022, BHI or the intermediary cancelled the policy.
Mr B complained to the intermediary that it had cancelled the policy incorrectly. By a final
response dated 13 April 2022, the intermediary upheld his complaint and apologised for its
error. It said it would waive its new business fee of £15.00 and the cancellation fee of
£60.00.
Unhappy with that, Mr B brought his complaint to us a few days later.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator treated the complaint as a complaint against BHI. He recommended that the
complaint should be upheld. He thought that, by incorrectly cancelling the policy, BHI caused
Mr B some worry and inconvenience. He recommended that BHI should:
1. mark their records to show that Mr B - not BHI - cancelled the policy;
2. issue Mr B with a letter to confirm BHI cancelled the policy in error;
3. pay Mr B £50.00 compensation for the anxiety and inconvenience caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to BHI on 28 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
Mr B mustve been taken aback at the notice of cancellation. And he either had
to engage in the webchat or get someone to do it on his behalf. 
He couldve done more to prevent the cancellation. But he mustve had to make other 
arrangements in relation to the hatchback.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from BHI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B accepted the provisional decision.
BHI had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The intermediary has sent us some policy terms that name an insurer other than BHI. But
from the certificate of insurance, I find that BHI was the insurer responsible for providing
cover. So I consider that BHI was responsible for cancelling the policy. And the intermediary
was acting on behalf of BHI.
From what the intermediary has shown us, Mr B sent an email asking for a quote for
changing his car from the hatchback to a cabriolet with a 13 registration. BHI told him he
could only get this information online.
The intermediary later said that it misunderstood that Mr B hadnt still got the hatchback. On
25 March 2022, it sent (by email and with a notification by SMS) a 7-day notice of
cancellation. The notice invited Mr B to get in contact.
On the same day, Mr B (or someone on his behalf) initiated an online chat with the
intermediary. That chat included Mr B (or someone on his behalf) first saying that he was the
policyholders son, then saying he would get his dad. Mr B (or someone on his behalf) then
said that he was the policyholder but gave a first name that wasnt the policyholders first
name. So BHI ended the chat on the basis that Mr B needed to start another chat.
In the usual course of events, if Mr B was anxious about the cancellation, he wouldve
started another chat. But he didnt make any further contact. So BHI cancelled the policy
with effect from 1 April 2022.
I dont think theres any dispute that the intermediary cancelled the policy in error and
unfairly. And I hold BHI responsible for that cancellation.
But Mr B had been aware of the 7-day notice and he couldve done more to get in touch and
prevent the cancellation. Mr B mustve known that the cancellation would take effect on 1
April 2022.
Mr B hasnt shown us evidence that he got a new policy for the hatchback from 1 April 2022
or at all.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Bs statement that the intermediary at first charged a
cancellation fee of £60.00 and chased him for payment of the balance it said was due. But
by 13 April 2022, the intermediary had credited its new business fee of £15.00 (which
wouldnt usually be refundable) and cancelled the £60.00 fee. So it refunded Mr B about
£15.00.
Mr B hasnt complained to the intermediary or to us about what he has paid in the end. Theintermediary has told us that Mr B only paid a pro-rata amount for his time on cover.
Mr B has said that he part- exchanged the hatchback for the cabriolet. But he has shown us
evidence that he took out a new policy for the cabriolet from 25 April 2022 - nearly three
weeks after the cancellation of the policy for the hatchback.
Ive thought about what is fair and reasonable to try to put right the unfairness of the
cancellation.
Im satisfied that the intermediary responded to the complaint on behalf of BHI. The
intermediary has told us that the only record of the cancellation is on its internal records and
not on any other database. And its final response (which Mr B can show to current or future
insurers) acknowledged that the cancellation was an error for which it apologised.
So  unlike the investigator  I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct BHI to change its 
records or to write any further letter.
Mr B hasnt given enough details of the impact of the error on him including distress and
anxiety.
Nevertheless, he mustve been taken aback at the notice of cancellation. And he either had
to engage in the webchat or get someone to do it on his behalf. He couldve done more to
prevent the cancellation. But he mustve had to make other arrangements in relation to the
hatchback. 
Putting things right
So I conclude that £100.00 would be fair and reasonable compensation for the
distress and inconvenience BHI caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to pay Mr B £100.00 for distress and
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman