DRN-3748053
The complaint
Mr W says Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) failed in its due diligence and customer service 
obligations during the inward cash transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
He says the transfer had to be reversed after several months in the process, for a reason 
that could have been addressed at the outset (or much earlier) had SWL not failed in its 
obligations and had it not ignored his repeated requests for contact to discuss the transfer.
What happened
The transfer had to be reversed because it featured a crystalised SIPP, which SWL could 
not receive. Mr W says he understands this reason and he accepts that in the online transfer 
application that he submitted he stated the SIPP was uncrystallised. 
However, his key arguments are that this could have been identified and addressed if SWL 
discussed the transfer with him at the outset as he repeatedly asked for. In addition, or in the 
alternative, he says, as a minimum, the status of the SIPP (in terms of crystallisation) should 
have been checked and verified by SWL earlier in the transfer process as part of its due 
diligence. In this regard, he refers to evidence of queries SWL put to the transferor firm 
about the nature of the SIPP, which omitted an enquiry into its crystallisation status. He says 
this shows an error (by omission) of the due diligence conducted by SWL. 
Mr W seeks compensation for the consequences he faced in the matter, including his SIPP 
having to remain in cash and inactive during the many months consumed in the overall 
process. A summary of the chronology of main events is as follows:
In January 2021 Mr W wrote to SWL setting out his plan to transfer the SIPP and 
asking for contact to discuss it further. SWL responded in the same month and 
directed him to use its online pension transfer service. He replied to say he was 
transferring a SIPP, not a pension, so he considered the online pension transfer 
service inappropriate and asked again for contact to discuss the matter. He says 
SWL insisted he had to use the online service, so he proceeded to do so.
In April 2021 SWL contacted Mr W to check on whether (or not) the transfer was to 
be in specie. He replied to confirm it was a cash only transfer. He says no other 
enquiry was put to him and he received no further contact until 19 May 2021 when 
SWL gave him email notice that the discharge forms (partly completed by SWL) that 
he needed to complete and forward to the transferor firm had been posted to him. He 
received the forms, completed them and forwarded them to the transferor firm on 1 
June 2021. He has asked us to note that SWLs covering letter for the forms, which 
was forwarded to the transferor firm, notified the firm that it should not proceed with 
the transfer (and should contact SWL instead) if any of the following applied  the 
transfer was from a defined benefits (final salary) scheme; there were entitlements to 
guaranteed annuity rates, guaranteed minimum pension or section 9(2B) rights; the 
policy was currently receiving employer contributions; the monies to be transferred 
resulted from a pension sharing order. He says these are the enquiries from which 
due diligence verification of the SIPPs crystallisation status was omitted.
 In July 2021 the inward transfer was completed. However, it then had to be reversed 
because the SIPPs crystallised status was identified. Mr W spoke to SWL on 2 
August 2021 and this was explained to him. He also complains about SWL, at this 
point, rejecting his repeated requests to retain the transfer and to have it sit in a 
retirement account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and noted that SWL agrees it ought to 
have been in contact with Mr W at the time of reversing the transfer, but was not. She found 
that this amounted to a service failure on its part and agreed with the £250 it had offered him 
in apology and compensation for that. However, she concluded that the rest of his complaint 
should not be upheld. She mainly said:
Mr W had misunderstood the nature of SWLs execution only transfer service. The 
service did not include advice and was limited to SWL executing the transfer as 
instructed by him. As such, it would not have discussed the transfer with him at the 
outset as he wanted.
He refers to the online transfer service being inappropriate because he was 
transferring a SIPP not a pension. However, a SIPP is a pension product, so it could 
be transferred using the service.
Mr W incorrectly stated, in the online transfer application, that the SIPP had not been 
crystallised. SWL was not responsible for that incorrect information and it would have 
based its transfer work on the assumption that he had given correct information. This 
explains why it did not verify what Mr W had stated.
SWL could not have just kept the transferred money under an alternative 
arrangement  as Mr W sought at the point of reverse  because it was bound by 
regulatory requirements to treat it for the specific purpose of a pension transfer. 
Mr W disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He commented 
on the investigators view. In the main and in addition to his core arguments (which he 
retained), he said the investigator did not address SWLs failure to notify him that the SIPP 
money had been returned to the transferor firm (in April 2022), and that failure should be 
given its due weight; this meant the money (around £100,000) was held with SWL for eight 
months (between July 2021 and April 2022) losing interest and pension benefits and this 
shows how inadequate the £250 offer is; SWL had no costs to meet in the reverse transfer 
because the transferor firm agreed to waive its administration fee for that; he would never 
have initiated the transfer if he knew it could not succeed, and early contact from SWL would 
have clarified that; and the same argument applies to the answer he gave to the question 
about crystallisation, it was posed as a pension transfer question but he was transferring a 
SIPP, so contact and guidance from SWL would have aided clarification in this respect too. 
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr W strongly disputes the investigators view that he misunderstood the 
nature of SWLs service. He asserts that the level of contact and engagement from SWL he 
expected was the minimum he was entitled to (especially given the transfer value). However, 
despite his submissions, I have reached the same view. His expectation simply did not match the execution only transfer service that SWL provided and that expectation went 
beyond mere contact. As evidenced by what he has described, he essentially sought 
advice, or something akin to advice, and the provision of advice was not within the transfer 
service.
Pension switches and transfers are commonly professionally advised, so providers like SWL 
sometimes expect individuals instructing such transfers to do so upon advice. I do not say or 
suggest that Mr W was obliged to take advice for the transfer. He had full discretion in that 
respect and he appears to have chosen to instruct the transfer without advice. It was a 
choice that he alone was/is responsible for. SWL has explained that for non-advised transfer 
applications the online service he was referred to was the correct venue, and I have not 
seen evidence to the contrary.
Mr Ws choice and instruction suggests he considered that he knew what he was doing. If he 
did not and/or if he needed the sort of guidance from SWL that he has referred to  that is, 
as he has stated, guidance on  any limitations, potential issues and best approach etc., 
guidance on using the service for a SIPP where he was concerned his SIPP was not a 
pension, and guidance on answering the question about crystallisation  then it would 
appear that he needed advice. These areas of guidance arguably amount to what would 
usually be areas of advice.
The point is that Mr W wanted contact from SWL in which it addressed and advised on 
issues like and including those above. That was not the service SWL provided, but he 
misunderstood otherwise and, like the investigator, I consider this to be a root cause in his 
complaint. SWL was not responsible for his misunderstanding. The nature of its execution 
only online transfer service was reasonably clear and not misleading. Furthermore, it might 
reasonably be said that the inference Mr W should have drawn from its reluctance to engage 
with him was that it was not prepared to advise in the process and that he should seek such 
advice elsewhere.
For the above reasons, I do not find that SWL committed a wrongdoing in not engaging with 
Mr W at the outset and through the initial transfer process. 
I also do not find it responsible for the transfers eventual failure, and the need to reverse it. 
The SIPP was crystallised. Mr W said, in the transfer application, that it was not. The transfer 
failed and had to be reversed because of this misinformation, and because SWL could not 
receive a transferred crystallised SIPP. I repeat, the transfer service happened on an 
execution only basis, so SWL was not responsible to advise on completion of the 
application. As the investigator said, it was also reasonable for it to assume that information 
in the application was correct. 
I understand Mr Ws argument about the due diligence checks SWL made in its covering 
letter notice to the transferor firm. However, on balance, it appears that the areas covered in 
the notice were part of its standard final verifications and I am not persuaded that omission 
of a question about crystallisation was meaningful. I agree with Mr W to the extent that such 
a question could have been asked, but not to the extent that there was a due diligence 
failure because it was not asked. There was no such failure for that reason. That enquiry had 
previously been put to him at the application stage, he answered it and it was reasonable for 
SWL to rely upon his answer.
The need to reverse the transfer was clearly contrary to Mr Ws transfer pursuit, so SWL 
ought to have known this would have been a problem for him and it ought to have supported 
him with the level of customer service he was entitled to. I am also persuaded by his 
reference to being a pre-existing SWL client, in a separate aspect. I can understand how the 
level of customer service he expected could have been encouraged by that. Engagement with him at the time did not require advice, it simply meant keeping him informed on what 
was going on in the reverse transfer process and continuing to do so up to, and including, 
the point the reverse was completed. 
SWL accepts that, up to September 2021 when Mr W complained, it did not do this. I am 
persuaded by its argument that the alternative he sought at the time, to avoid the reverse 
transfer, was not viable because the transfer had been defined as a SIPP transfer, the SIPP 
could not be transferred in the crystallised state that it was, so it had to be reversed and if 
transfer into an SWL drawdown product was sought instead that had to be properly pursued 
afresh. As the investigator said, regulatory pension related requirements had to be complied 
with, so Mr Ws SIPP cash could not simply be allocated anywhere and/or in any way. SWL 
also accepts that it could have clarified all this to him sooner and better at the time.
SWL has apologised for the specific service shortcomings that it accepts and its letter of 14 
October 2021 to Mr W says it offered him a compensation payment of £250 into his back 
account and agreement to cover the reverse transfer fees it anticipated he would incur from 
the transferor firm. Mr W has confirmed to us that he negotiated the latter with the transferor 
firm and no such fees have been applied. As such, it is a cost that never materialised. SWLs 
intention was to cover that cost for him, so the need to do so is now redundant. That leaves 
the £250 offered directly to him. With regards to the service failure, from the point of the 
reverse transfer, that I have addressed above, I consider it to be fair compensation for the 
trouble and inconvenience caused to Mr W. That trouble and inconvenience essentially 
lasted up to October 2021 when SWL recognised and addressed its mistakes and around 
three months after the initial transfer was received (in July). £250 is a reasonable award in 
these circumstances and I do not uphold Mr Ws pursuit for more.
The reverse transfer appears to have been delayed, but I do not have enough evidence to 
conclude that SWL caused that. It has referred to issues with the transferor firm and issues 
in the reverse transfer process, which caused delays. I note Mr Ws point about not being 
told about completion of this process in April 2022, but I consider that the £250 offer is 
enough to cover that too, especially as the position to update him at the time could arguably 
be said to have been shared by both firms. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I conclude that Mr W has already been offered fair 
compensation for the customer service element of his case, I do not uphold his claim for 
more or his complaint about alleged failed due diligence.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman