DRN-2586477
The complaint
Mr G complains about information reported to credit reference agencies by Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Birmingham Midshires in respect of his mortgage account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Another 
reason for not detailing the background to this complaint is because the circumstances 
around it are fairly unusual and there would be a risk that Mr G could be identified from it.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G has strong feelings as to what should fairly happen. However, having 
carefully considered this complaint I have reached the same view as our investigator, for the 
following reasons. 
Despite Mr Gs belief, theres nothing in the court order that says he cant make payments to 
the mortgage. All the court order does is give the third party the power to manage Mr Gs 
assets to realise the money Mr G had been ordered to pay. It says Mr G shouldnt obstruct 
that third party. But making a monthly mortgage payment could in no way be construed as 
being obstructive. 
If Mr G feels he was misled, either by the third party or by the court, in that regard then that 
is a matter hed need to refer to the court. I can only decide this case based on the evidence 
I have before me, and that is there is nothing in the court order that says Mr G isnt allowed 
to make his mortgage payments. For that reason, Mr Gs argument that the court order 
supersedes the mortgage contract is moot.
Under the mortgage contract Mr G was required to make his contractual monthly mortgage 
payments. Each month Birmingham Midshires would report to the credit reference agencies 
whether or not his account was in arrears.
Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires took the appropriate steps it needed to take to make 
Mr G aware of the repayment status of the mortgage. Birmingham Midshires is required to 
report the accurate position of accounts to the credit reference agencies. Mr Gs mortgage 
was in arrears  so the reporting is accurate and factual; it cant include context. Mr G was 
still liable to Birmingham Midshires for the mortgage payments, and as they werent made 
each month then Birmingham Midshires was right to report that factual information to the 
credit reference agencies.
If Mr G would like his credit file to reflect the circumstances behind the repayment history on 
the mortgage account, he could consider adding a notice of correction to his file - which 
lenders then can take into consideration in relation to any credit applications in the future. 
But as Mr G remained liable to Birmingham Midshires for the mortgage, I cant fairly require 
it to report the matter differently.
I can see Mr G feels very strongly about this, and thats not surprising. But Im afraid I have 
to tell Mr G that Birmingham Midshires did nothing wrong in reporting the arrears on his 
mortgage to the credit reference agencies. For the reasons given, although I understand 
Mr Gs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.  
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman