DRN-3281003
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around December 2016, Mr D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr D decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed in January 2017.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim on Mr Ds behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would generate free electricity.
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and energy savings would provide enough income to cover the 
finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt issue a substantive final response but explained to us that it didnt agree 
the system had been misrepresented to Mr D or that there were any other reasons for the 
claim to be upheld. However, Shawbrook has said that it is willing to pay Mr D £200 in 
recognition of its delays in responding to the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The CMC disagreed that Mr D read or understood the quotation.
The quote projected the system would generate a positive return from year seven 
and become self-funding between years 13 and 14 of the loan agreement. As such, 
had Mr D read the document, he would have been entitled to assume that the system 
would be self-funding within the term of the loan as promised by the sales agent. 
Given the very small amount by which Mr D would be out of pocket in the first six 
years, he may have been willing to proceed on this basis on the understanding they 
would soon be making enough to cover their outlay. However, the promised income 
and savings havent materialized and as such P clearly put forward untrue 
statements which may have contributed to Mr D agreeing to purchase the system.
Mr D relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative, that the 
system would be self-funding through the income received through the FIT and the 
savings achieved on their electricity costs as a result of installing solar panels. 
Mr D placed little reliance on the quotation because the salesman was so convincing 
with the way he verbally explained the financial benefits of the system. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Getting Started. Ive considered 
these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ds recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr D agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I 
have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr D agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr D could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £200.53.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr D could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £356.69 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr D the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £860.34. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £98.61 (slightly more than shown on the actual loan 
agreement, which was £97.90). For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts 
the illustrative monthly loan repayment of £98.61, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr D that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 14 the overall benefits that 
Mr D could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement, which was £17,722.00. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr D that the system would pay for itself by the 
end of year 14, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,054 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ds FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,431 kWh. This is more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P usually used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data for the ten years prior to the year of 
sale to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly 
increases between 2017 and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P 
at the point of sale and I think this explains why Mr D hasnt been receiving the financial 
returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have 
been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy 
generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were generally based on the information 
available from the ONS covering ten years prior to the year of sale. And based on this, I 
dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the 
potential financial income Mr D couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I 
can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, 
Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the 
time Mr D entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman