DRN-4035855
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations and/or breach of 
contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer 
misleading Mr G into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr G, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance.
Ikano didnt agree for the following reasons: 
Ikano says although they dont have all the sales documents related to this 
consumer, they have seen a number of cases from this supplier and it usually made 
the costs and benefits clear.
Mr G was aware that his annual benefits would be less than £500 when he signed up 
to the agreement and given that this is significantly less than the annual costs under 
the loan, it would have been clear to him that the system wouldnt be self-funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr G says he was assured verbally by the supplier that the benefits received from the 
system would cover the cost of the loan  and he bought the system on that basis. Mr Gs 
testimony has been clear and consistent. Mr G did sign several documents during the sale, 
but he says he was simply told to sign, and he did so without paying too much attention to 
what he was signing  as he was given all the information necessary verbally during the 
sales meeting. 
Ikano says Mr G was given an estimated returns document which set out that his maximum 
year one benefit was £481.66. He subsequently signed several documents (including the 
solar panel contract, the credit agreement and a validation sheet) setting out the costs 
associated with the loan. This shows the total amount payable was £9,685.02, the cash price 
was £5,995, the monthly payment was £80.72, and his loan term was 120 months (i.e. 10 
years) with a deferral period of six months. 
Ikano says its clear that in order to repay a 10-year loan for £5,995, a consumer would need 
at least £599.50 to meet the annual repayment sunder the loan, and this is without 
considering interest and charges. To repay £9,685.02 over 10 years, hed need considerably 
more than that. So Ikano feels it would have been clear to him that the system wouldnt be 
self-funding at the time of sale. 
Ikano also points out that it has seen a number of cases related to this supplier and it usually 
made the costs and benefits clear. 
While Ive thought carefully about Ikanos concerns, for the reasons set out by our 
investigator, Im not satisfied the costs and benefits were made clear enough for Mr G to 
understand the system wouldnt be self-funding.
The estimated returns document was signed by Mr G on 9 July 2017. Nothing in this 
document suggests he was given any information in relation to the costs at this time. So, he 
couldnt have known at this time that the system wouldnt be self-funding.
Mr G did sign a validation sheet, a solar panel contract and the credit agreement on the 23rd 
and 24th July 2017. But this is during a site visit several weeks after the initial meeting. I dont 
think its reasonable to expect a consumer to remember the facts and figures he may have 
been given several weeks earlier. Mr G says that he didnt have the estimated returns 
document to hand when he was given the information about the costs associated with the 
loan but was again verbally assured that the system would produce sufficient benefits to 
cover the costs. 
I think given Mr Gs lack of experience in solar panels and energy generation figures, its not 
reasonable to expect him to carry out an in-depth review of multiple documents given to him 
over several meetings to decipher that what the supplier was telling him wasnt true. 
I think its fair for Mr G to rely on the sales representative to take him through this information 
and he was entitled to rely on what he was being told. Mr Gs testimony has been clear and 
consistent, so in my view, its reliable evidence of what he was likely told during the sale. And 
he says he was assured the solar panels would be self-funding.
So, like our investigator, Im satisfied the evidence supports the conclusion that a 
misrepresentation took place and Mr G was not given clear enough information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr G fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Gs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr G from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. In the event the calculation shows that Mr G is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr G by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Gs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr G in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr G have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pay/s a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr G accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr G has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr G has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr G paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr G paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr G first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman