DRN-3597190
The complaint
Mrs D is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC say Phoenix 
Life Limited (PL) provided Mrs D with unsuitable advice.
What happened
In 1991, Mrs D agreed to invest monthly into a 15-year WealthMaster Savings Plan following 
advice she took from PL. 
In 2004, PL reviewed the advice given and whilst they generally deemed the plan to be a 
suitable investment, they felt a shorter term of ten years, wouldve been more suitable for 
Mrs D taking into consideration her circumstances at the time.
To put things right, PL paid Mrs D the maturity value of the plan as of 17 March 2001, its ten-
year anniversary, plus refunded any premiums shed paid into the plan after that. PL also 
paid interest on the redress paid to Mrs D.
In 2021, the CMC complained to PL saying Mrs D wasnt interested in life cover yet had 
been sold a plan that included it, and that no alternatives were discussed at the time of the 
sale.
The CMC also said due to the ineligibility of the paperwork its difficult to justify the sale of a 
unit linked plan to Mrs D who had very limited financial experience, and that the plan sold 
didnt match her attitude to risk.
PL referred to their review of Mrs Ds policy in 2004 and said no further review would be 
conducted. Unhappy with PLs response, the CMC referred Mrs Ds complaint to The 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and said whilst the original savings plan was 
likely mis-sold, the action taken by PL in 2004 put things right and the compensation paid 
fairly compensated Mrs D for the original advise.
During his investigation, PL confirmed to our Investigator they would be happy to refund the 
total cost of the life cover element of Mrs Ds plan for the 10 years it was in place, £27.40, 
plus interest. Because the CMC said Mrs D hadnt wanted life cover, our Investigator said PL 
should refund this.
The CMC disagreed with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im upholding this complaint for the reasons Ill explain below, I 
understand it isnt the outcome Mrs D.
When providing advice, a business must look at the consumers personal and financial 
circumstances and provide appropriate recommendations based on this information.
In the specific circumstances of this case, due to the time passed, the documentation from 
the time of the advice is largely ineligible. Taking into consideration that the plan was taken 
out in 1991, and that its been some 18 years since the plan closed and the 10-year maturity 
value was paid, its understandable why this may be the case.
Because of this, Ive had to look at what information is available to me and take a balanced 
approached as to what I think is most likely to have happened at the time.
Whilst largely ineligible, it is clear in the Personal Financial Analysis document from 1991 
that Mrs Ds objective was to save for her then new-born son. A WealthMaster Savings Plan 
set up for a 15-year term was recommended.
I dont have a record of Mrs Ds attitude to risk at the time but considering her recorded 
objective and the relatively modest monthly investment committed to, I dont consider the 
savings plan recommended to have been unsuitable for her needs.
PL, when reviewing the policy in 2004, acknowledged a plan set up over a shorter term may 
have been more appropriate.
I can understand why they may have concluded this. Its not disputed Mrs D wanted to save 
for her son but committing to invest for a longer period of time, comes with its own risks.
By calculating the maturity value in 2004 as if the plan had matured three years earlier, it put 
Mrs D in a better position financially than shed have been in had the plan run for its original 
full term. So, by recognising a short term may have been more suited and then paying Mrs D 
the higher maturity value, I think PL have acted fairly and reasonably by taking the action 
they have.
The CMC also say Mrs D wasnt interested in life cover at the time. PL have agreed to 
refund her the full cost of life cover over the revised 10-year term of the plan and pay interest 
up to the date of settlement. 
I consider this resolution to resolve the complaint point concerning life cover so Im not going 
to comment on this further.
To summarise, Im satisfied PL did complete a fact find to look at Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time, and taking into consideration the evidence available to me in this case, Im satisfied 
the saving plan recommended, term aside, was suitable and could meet her requirements. 
PL acknowledged a shorter term may have been better suited. And theyve paid the maturity 
value Mrs D wouldve received had a 10-year plan have been recommended instead.
PL have offered to refund the life cover element of the plan plus interest. Im satisfied that by 
doing this, combined with the action taken in 2004, PL have provided a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint and I dont think they need to do any more.
Putting things right
To resolve Mrs Ds complaint PL should refund her the cost of the life cover taken from each 
premium over the ten-year period of the investment. To this amount they should add 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
If PL considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mrs D, they should tell her how much theyve taken off. They should also 
give Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Phoenix Life Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above  in line with their offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman