DRN-1937324
The complaint
Mr E complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on his 
employers private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E is a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy.
On 13 November 2019, Mr E called BUPA because hed been suffering neck and shoulder 
pain. He spoke with one of BUPAs triage clinicians, who gave Mr E a diagnosis of a strained 
muscle and recommended physiotherapy treatment to deal with the issue.
Later that day, Mr E flew to a European country for a business meeting. As his pain had 
worsened and he was experiencing additional symptoms, Mr E visited a clinic in the airport, 
which recommended that he should see a neurologist. A couple of days later, whilst he was 
still abroad, Mr E saw a neurologist, who suggested that he should undergo an MRI scan. Mr 
E underwent an MRI on 16 November 2019 and was diagnosed with a prolapsed disc.
Mr E got in touch with BUPA to complain that his condition had been misdiagnosed as a 
muscle strain. BUPA subsequently authorised the costs of Mr E visiting one of its approved 
neurologists upon his return to the UK; minor diagnostic tests, including an MRI and 
physiotherapy. Mr E returned to the UK and saw BUPAs neurologist on 20 November 2019. 
He began to have physiotherapy on 23 November 2019 and subsequently had a facet joint 
injection on 29 November 2019. As he felt BUPA had misdiagnosed his condition and that 
the physiotherapy itd recommended wouldve worsened his condition, he made a claim for 
the medical costs hed incurred abroad  the clinic and neurologist visits and the cost of the 
MRI.
BUPA turned down the claim. It said that Mr Es worsening symptoms hadnt been caused 
by the triage clinicians recommendations, as he hadnt undergone any physiotherapy at the 
point he flew to Europe. It also said that the neurologist Mr E had seen on 20 November 
2019 had recommended physiotherapy as part of Mr Es treatment. So it considered the 
original triage recommendation had been correct. And it added that the policy doesnt cover 
treatment a policyholder receives outside of the UK.
Mr E was unhappy with BUPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mr Es complaint should be partly upheld. He felt the policy 
clearly set out that BUPA would only cover costs which it had authorised and needed to take 
place in an authorised facility. He also felt the policy made it clear that MRI scans would only 
be covered if they took place in an authorised facility. And that there was no cover for 
treatment outside of the UK. So he accepted that strictly, there wasnt any cover for the 
medical expenses Mr E had incurred abroad. 
He acknowledged that the triage clinician had given Mr E the wrong diagnosis, but he didnt 
think BUPA had done anything wrong, because the consultation had taken place over the 
phone and the clinician had relied on the reported symptoms. He considered it likely that if 
Mr E had attended physiotherapy, the therapist wouldve ultimately reached a prolapsed disc 
diagnosis. He also accepted that Mr E had travelled abroad despite being in some pain. And 
he thought that if Mr E had called BUPA when he arrived abroad after his pain had 
worsened, it wouldve likely advised him to wait until he returned home to visit an approved 
facility. So he didnt think BUPA needed to cover Mr Es clinic or neurologist visits abroad.
However, the investigator thought that Mr E would always have needed an MRI to diagnose 
his prolapsed disc before BUPAs approved neurologist could recommend and commence 
treatment. He also noted that BUPA had authorised the costs of diagnostic tests (including 
an MRI) when it authorised Mr Es neurology consultation. If Mr E hadnt had an MRI abroad, 
the investigator thought hed have needed one in the UK, which BUPA wouldve been liable 
to pay for. So he thought a fair outcome for this complaint would be for BUPA to pay Mr E 
the amount it wouldve cost it for him to have an MRI scan at one of its approved facilities in 
the UK, together with interest.
Mr E accepted the investigators recommendations, although he added that hed travelled 
before having physiotherapy because the earliest appointment hed been able to get was for 
four days after his call with the triage clinician.
BUPA disagreed with the investigator. It maintained that the advice given by its triage 
clinician was appropriate for Mr Es symptoms. It said that a scan couldve been arranged at 
the initial assessment if the therapist suspected another condition or Mr E hadnt responded 
to treatment. It didnt think there was any evidence that Mr E had needed an MRI at this 
point. And it said there was no evidence that Mr E had started the physiotherapy before he 
flew abroad, which meant there was nothing to suggest that the clinicians recommendation 
had worsened his symptoms. It added that Mr E had had physiotherapy following his 
treatment by its approved neurologist, which showed its initial recommendation had been 
correct. BUPA also said there was no evidence that Mr E had experienced a prolapsed disc 
before his symptoms worsened or before he travelled  so it didnt think there was evidence 
to suggest its initial diagnosis was wrong. And finally, it felt that Mr E had always planned to 
travel and understood the risks of doing so whilst having an acute condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think BUPA has treated Mr E fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Es policy; the available evidence and the circumstances of his claim to decide 
whether BUPA handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Es contract with BUPA. 
The contract says that BUPA will cover eligible treatment performed by recognised 
practitioners in a recognised facility. It also says that policyholders need to get BUPAs pre-
authorisation before receiving or arranging any treatment. Importantly, the policy says:
Failure to obtain pre-authorisation from us means that you will be responsible for paying for 
all such treatment if we would not have pre-authorised that treatment.Ive also noted that Mr Es group policy doesnt include cover for any medical costs which 
are incurred abroad.
Theres no dispute that Mr E didnt get BUPAs authorisation to visit medical practitioners or 
undergo treatment abroad. And he simply isnt covered for costs which arent incurred in the 
UK. The investigator felt that if Mr E had called BUPA when he arrived abroad and his pain 
and symptoms had worsened; its likely that it would have authorised him to seek treatment 
or an MRI upon his return to the UK. And he accepted that Mr E had already known he was 
in pain when he travelled as planned. So the investigator didnt think it was fair to tell BUPA 
to cover the costs of the clinic or neurologist visits Mr E had abroad. Mr E has accepted the 
investigators findings on these points and so I dont think I need to explore them in detail. 
For completeness though, I think that it wouldve been reasonable for Mr E to call BUPA 
when he arrived abroad and before he sought further treatment. So for the same reasons as 
the investigator, I also think its fair for BUPA to turn down Mr E claim for the costs of the 
airport clinic and European neurologist visits.
Id also add that I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the triage clinicians 
recommendations were unsuitable or that they worsened Mr Es condition. It seems to me 
that the clinician relied on the information Mr E gave over the phone and they werent able to 
undertake a detailed examination of Mr Es shoulders or neck. Mr E has also told us that he 
wasnt able to get a physiotherapists appointment before he left the UK, so theres no 
suggestion that he received treatment which exacerbated his condition. 
However, like the investigator, I also think the fair outcome in this case is for BUPA to pay Mr 
E what it wouldve cost it if hed undergone an MRI at one of its approved facilities. I accept 
that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, treatment which takes place abroad isnt 
covered. But I can depart from a strict application of the policy terms if I consider they 
produce an unfair result.
In this case, Ive listened to the call between Mr E and BUPA on 19 November 2019, when it 
authorised the cost of him visiting its approved neurologist upon his return to the UK. The 
call handler specifically mentioned that minor diagnostic costs  including an MRI  had also 
been authorised. Regardless of whether Mr E had waited to undergo physiotherapy as first 
planned and had then been referred for further investigation; or whether Mr E had 
undergone the authorised MRI with BUPAs neurologist, it seems to me that he would 
always have needed to have an MRI to diagnose his prolapsed disc. Indeed, in its response 
to our investigator, BUPA said that if Mr E had called it rather than visit the airport clinic, it 
wouldve arranged his appointment with the neurologist, who wouldve arranged an MRI to 
diagnose the prolapsed disc.  
BUPA has confirmed that Mr E didnt have another MRI at its cost when he saw its 
neurologist on 20 November 2019  so it seems the neurologist relied on the MRI hed had 
abroad. BUPA seems to accept that Mr E wouldve always required an MRI to diagnose his 
prolapsed disc. So it wouldve been liable for the cost to it of this procedure at one of its 
facilities. And if hed called up for pre-authorisation before being seen abroad, BUPA agrees 
that an MRI wouldve been arranged. In my view then, by paying for the MRI, Mr E has met 
BUPAs policy liability and paid a cost which it went on to authorise, at least in part. So I 
dont think Mr E has undergone a procedure here which BUPA wouldnt have agreed to 
cover. This means I think it would be fair in the circumstances of this case for BUPA to pay 
Mr E what it wouldve cost it if hed undergone an MRI in its approved facility, together with 
interest.
I appreciate BUPA feels theres no evidence that Mr E had a prolapsed disc when he first 
called on 13 November 2019. Given that his symptoms worsened later the same day, it 
seems more likely than not that the initial symptoms were due to a prolapsed disc. In any event though, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. I say that 
because BUPA agreed to cover the cost of Mr E visiting a neurologist in the UK; his facet 
joint injection and the subsequent physiotherapy he underwent. So regardless of when Mr 
Es disc slipped; its clear BUPA considered this condition to be covered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Mr E the cost to it of an MRI scan at the approved 
facility it wouldve used if the scan had been carried out in the UK. It must also add interest 
to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman