DRN-3966750
The complaint
Miss A complains that due to an error on Nationwide Building Societys (Nationwide) behalf 
payments were allowed from her account resulting in her account becoming overdrawn. 
What happened
Miss A held a bank account with Nationwide. On 19 April 2022 due to an error with 
Nationwides systems the balance on its accounts failed to update in real time and payments 
werent shown as pending.
For Miss As account this resulted in her account going into unauthorised overdraft by 
around £593.
Miss A complained to Nationwide about this. Nationwide agreed it was its error that led to 
Miss As account becoming overdrawn. It refunded Miss A £500 of the overdrawn amount 
and compensated her £50 for the inconvenience caused.
Miss A was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. Miss A wants 
Nationwide to refund the whole overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns and didnt think it was fair to blame 
Nationwide solely for allowing the account to go into unarranged overdraft when Miss A was 
aware of the status of her account and did nothing to address the situation and try and 
reduce the overdrawn amount. They thought that the compensation Nationwide had paid 
Miss A was fair and reasonable and didnt think it should do anything more. 
Miss A disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss A has experienced and see if Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss A back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Nationwide has already agreed that due to an error in its systems Miss As account balance 
failed to update resulting in her account becoming overdrawn by around £593. To address 
this Nationwide refunded £500 of the overdrawn amount and compensated Miss A £50 for 
the inconvenience which I think fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not going 
to ask Nationwide to do anything more.
I accept that Miss As account may well have become overdrawn because of its system 
errors. But ultimately Miss A made those transactions. Im sure Miss A understands having a 
bank account comes with responsibilities such as understanding the status of the account 
and making sure the account holds enough money to service the payments Miss As wishes 
to make. 
In the days leading up to this Miss As statements show that multiple transactions were 
declined due to low funds and that the amount of incoming credits to Miss As account were 
being transferred out to another account or withdrawn. I also understand that despite the 
system error Miss A was still able to and did see what her balance was. I think that this 
shows Miss A was aware of how much money she had available to her and that she 
wouldve understood she didnt have enough to service the payments going out or due to go 
out. Yet she still proceeded to make transactions. So on this basis I dont think it would be 
fair to penalise Nationwide because for a short period transactions were allowed out when 
Miss A had insufficient funds.
In any case, things dont always go smoothly and not every mistake warrants compensation. 
And in this case I havent seen anything to show me Miss A has suffered a financial loss 
solely from Nationwides mistake. Indeed, in this case Miss A has benefitted from 
Nationwides mistake as she was able to make and benefit from transactions up to £500  
money which she didnt have. And on this basis I think what Nationwide has already done to 
put things right for Miss A is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask Nationwide to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Nationwide Building Society has already done for 
Miss A is a fair way to settle her complaint and Im not going to ask it do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman