DRN-3028290
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC kept sending her emails that statements
were available for her to view years after Tesco had sold her account to a third party.
What happened
Mrs A had a credit card with Tesco. She suffered financial difficulty which led to the account
being closed in 2014. In 2015 the account was sold to a third party and Mrs A says she paid
off the debt in 2018 but she kept getting a monthly email to say her account statements were
available to view online.
Mrs A complained to Tesco. Tesco upheld her complaint, apologised and sent a cheque for
£50 for the inconvenience Mrs A had as a result of the emails they sent. Mrs A found the £50
compensation insulting so she brought her complaint to our service. Mrs A said these emails
caused her a great deal of anxiety, stress and stirred up horrible emotions. She said she
tried to contact Tesco on several occasions by phone to ask them to stop sending the
emails, but she could not get through to a call handler due to the time on hold.
Our investigator upheld Mrs As complaint. He said that nobody from Tesco discussed this
issue with Mrs A before they awarded the £50 compensation. Our investigator said that as
Mrs A had told him the distress she has suffered during lockdown and seeing these emails
then Tesco should pay Mrs A an extra £100 compensation.
Tesco did not accept the view of the investigator. They said that Mrs As complaint simply
said: I keep receiving emails from you saying my statements are available online when I
have contacted you saying this account was closed sometime ago and I no longer have log
in details. Tesco said it wasnt their procedure to ring a customer about their complaint, so if
Mrs A had further details to give them about her complaint she shouldve done so on the
telephone number or email address they gave her directly to the customer relations team.
Tesco also said that they acted promptly to resolve the issue once it had been brought to
their attention.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered, listened to and read
everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal
body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Both parties agree that Tesco made an administrative error when Mrs As debt was sold to a
third party. This occurred when her online account was still flagged as active. As a result of
this Mrs A received an automated email from Tesco every month for a number of years. So
what I would expect Tesco to do here is to acknowledge their error when they were made
aware of it, apologise to Mrs A for this and recognise the likely impact this would have on
Mrs A.
When considering this complaint, Ive thought about what Tesco have done, when they were
made aware of their error and whether they have followed their own procedures. Tesco were
made aware of the error in a complaint made by Mrs A on 30 January 2021. Tesco said they
contacted the relevant department and stopped the emails on 1 February 2021. And they
emailed their final response letter to Mrs A on 2 February 2021. So I am satisfied that Tesco
acted on the information very quickly when Mrs A complained about the issue.
I know that Mrs A feels strongly that somebody from Tesco should have contacted her to
discuss her complaint. Then she would have been able to explain to Tesco the impact that
the emails have had on her. But Tesco have said it is not their procedure to contact every
customer by phone who raises a complaint with them. It may help if I explain to Mrs A that
its not the role of our service to tell a business how to run their services. But I do need to
ensure that they have followed their procedures and have treated Mrs A fair and reasonably
whilst doing this.
Im satisfied that Tesco has treated Mrs A fairly here. I say this as they rectified the issue
quickly after receiving her complaint. They apologised and acknowledged their error. And
they realised that by sending emails to Mrs A on a monthly basis then this would have an
impact on her. They sent Mrs A a cheque for £50 due to the inconvenience this would have
on her.
I know Mrs A feels strongly that the £50 cheque is insulting to her. But I need to consider
what effect receiving the emails alone had on her. Im persuaded that the emails she
received would have inconvenienced her. The loan had been sold to a third party in 2015 so
she would have been receiving these emails for over five years.
But Im not persuaded that its fair for Tesco to pay Mrs A £100 extra compensation for
distress here. I know that Mrs A feels that Tescos error had a big impact on her. I dont think
theres any disputing that Tesco shouldnt have continued to send her emails, but in the
circumstances, I think that what Tesco has done is fair to put things right. I realise that Mrs A
may feel like the compensation amount is too low here  but given that things were put right
within two days of her raising the complaint with Tesco, I think its a fair amount to
compensate her for the inconvenience she had to go through to complain to Tesco.
So Im persuaded the £50 cheque Tesco sent to Mrs A was fair based on the reasons Ive
already given. As the payment was made by cheque it would only be valid for six months. If
this has not been deposited yet then the cheque will be expiring soon. So I do think its fair
for Tesco to replace the cheque for £50 if it hasnt been deposited by Mrs A. But I dont
intend to ask them to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Tesco accepted my provisional decision. Mrs A did not respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decisionI do not uphold the complaint. But as the cheque which Tesco Personal Finance PLC sent 
Mrs A would have expired, they should replace the cheque they sent Mrs A with a new 
cheque for £50 if this has not been deposited by Mrs A already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman