DRN-3175878
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the way in which Santander UK PLC handled his Data Subject
Access Request (DSAR).
 
What happened
In an email to Santander dated 1 November 2019, Mr G made a DSAR requesting
Santander provide him with certain information which it holds relating to him (Mr Gs
DSAR).
Santander replied on 4 November 2019, explaining it was unable to action Mr Gs DSAR on
the strength of an email alone. It said Mr G would either need to write a letter to Santander
requesting the information or call them. Mr G was provided with contact details.
Alternatively, he was told that he could complete and send a scanned copy of Santanders
prescribed DSAR form.
Mr G didnt think that was fair. He emailed Santander saying hed been in contact with the
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) whod confirmed that a DSAR made by email was
enough to enable Santander to action his request. Email correspondence followed between
Mr G and Santander about this but ultimately, Santander confirmed that without Mr G doing
something more to verify his identify, it wouldnt be providing him with the information hed
requested.
Santander said in its final response letter to Mr G dated March 2020 that when a customer
makes a DSAR via email it needs to complete a further level of security by speaking with
them. It also said it had provided Mr G with alternative ways to write to make his DSAR.
Santander acknowledged that it couldve explained this more clearly to Mr G at the outset.
Unhappy, Mr G brought his complaint to our Service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He said Santander shouldve dealt with Mr Gs
DSAR sooner as it had enough information to verify his identity and to ascertain that the
request had come from him. He asked Santander to action the request as soon as possible
and to pay Mr G £100 in compensation.
Santander didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to consider everything
afresh and decide. 
I issued my provisional decision at the end of October 2021 explaining why I was also 
intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint and proposing to direct Santander to deal with Mr Gs 
DSAR - and to pay him compensation in the sum of £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
An extract appears below:
Santander has a policy whereby if a written communication setting out a DSAR doesnt
contain a wet signature then staff arent able to process it. Thats because, Santander says,
its unable to cross-reference the signature it has on its records for customers.
In such circumstances, its policy is to write to the person making a DSAR informing them
that it requires a handwritten signature.
Santander has told our Service that given the volume and nature of personal data that can
be disclosed by Santander as part of a DSAR, and the consequences that it could have for
an individual if the data was to fall into the wrong hands, it considers a DSAR to be a high-
risk transaction. As such, additional identification and verification checks are required to be
completed before a DSAR can be actioned. And its rules regarding the appropriate level of
identification for DSARs are in line with other high-risk transactions.
Santander also says:
- its policy regarding identification and verification has been put in place to ensure 
that its customers are protected and to ensure it meets its obligations as a data 
controller;
- the intention isnt to frustrate or prevent an individual from exercising their legal right 
to obtain a copy of the personal data that is held about them.
I, of course, understand all the points Santander makes in this respect. And I appreciate why
Santander needs to ensure that Mr Gs DSAR had been made by him  rather than
someone masquerading as Mr G.
However, Ive considered whether Santanders decision to apply a strict interpretation of its
policy when handling Mr Gs DSAR was fair and reasonable in this particular case. And,
currently, I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
The ICO provides information on its website for data controllers. It says:
How do we recognise a subject access request (SAR)?
An individual can make a SAR verbally or in writing, including on social media. A
request is valid if it is clear that the individual is asking for their own personal data.
An individual does not need to use a specific form of words, refer to legislation or
direct the request to a specific contact.
And:
Can we ask for ID?
You can ask for enough information to judge whether the requester (or the person
the request is made on behalf of) is the person that the data is about. The key point
is that you must be reasonable and proportionate about what you ask for. You should
not request more information if the requesters identity is obvious to you. This is
particularly the case when you have an ongoing relationship with the individual.
Mr G was well known to Santander. And I think it shouldve been reasonably obvious to
Santander it was Mr G making the request here.
Mr G was a customer at the time of making the DSAR - and Santander had been liaising
with Mr G about his saving accounts via email - for a significant period. Hed also raised
previous concerns about Santander to our Service.Further, in June 2019, Mr G had provided Santander with scanned copies of six pieces of
information confirming his identity and address in the form of utility bills bearing his address
and had returned to Santander documents relating to himself. Those documents were
provided to Santander via the same email address setting out Mr Gs DSAR around five
months later.
Santander rightly says that the identification documents provided by Mr G in June 2019
related to a separate matter, namely a change of address. It says the reason Santander
needs to take a customer through a particular security process when it receives a DSAR is
so that it can be satisfied that this specific request at this specific time has been made by the
customer. So, for Santander, its not possible to rely on the fact that identification documents
have previously been provided by the customer in relation to a different matter.
However, Santander had been engaging in email correspondence with Mr G in the months
leading up to the Mr Gs DSAR about other (but related issues). And indeed, Mr Gs DSAR
was made in response to a final response letter dated 25 September 2019 relating to
longstanding issues hed been raising.
Mr G also used adjusted font when making his DSAR, which is consistent with the way in
which Mr G corresponded with Santander in email communications. Mr Gs DSAR was part
of a longer email chain that had been ongoing for some time.
Importantly here, Mr G had also asked for the information hed requested to be sent to him
by post to his home address (which matched the one Santander had on file and recently
checked ID in order to update). Santander had previously used this address to send a final
response letter to Mr G dated 25 September 2019 (the final response letter). Its also the
same address to which Santander sent the final response letter dated March 2020 when
responding to the complaint which is the subject of this decision.
The subject of Mr Gs DSAR didnt specifically relate to any personal financial information so,
in that respect, I dont think the information posed any more risk than information set out in
the final response letter. Mr G wanted to see all internal communications between staff
members regarding a matter that Mr G had already raised concerns about, and Santander
had addressed in the final response letter.
When provisionally deciding this complaint, Ive considered that Mr G did complain to the
ICO about Santander not actioning Mr Gs DSAR and the ICO concluded in June 2020 that
there was no further action to take. This is, of course, a relevant consideration. But the ICOs
conclusions were based on the information it had seen at the time. And from what Ive seen,
the ICO didnt have access to all the information our Service has received from both parties.
For example, it doesnt seem to have been made aware that Santander and Mr G had been
in regular contact with each other by email and the DSAR was made in direct response to an
existing issue Mr G had with Santander. Also, although the ICO had been made aware that
Mr Gs request had been made by email, it doesnt look like the ICO was aware that Mr G
had requested the information be sent to his home address. I think those are important and
relevant considerations when thinking about whether Santander were being reasonable and
proportionate here in asking Mr G to do more to verify himself.
Overall, Im currently persuaded that Mr G has been put to the unnecessary trouble of
having to correspond with Santander about this matter on several occasions from November
2019  which ultimately led to him complaining to our Service. I can also see from the nature
of his communications that Mr G has become increasingly frustrated by Santanders failure
to progress the DSAR and provide him with the information requested. And I can understand
why.Response to my provisional decision
Santander responded reiterating points it had already raised  and Id already taken into 
account when issuing my provisional decision  including that its additional security 
measures are in place to safeguard its customers and Santander. It also said the ICO had 
not raised any concerns regarding these processes, to date.
However, it said in the circumstances of this particular complaint, it agreed to send Mr G 
the specific complaint information requested in Mr Gs DSAR. But Santander has stressed 
that this shouldnt, in any way, set a precedent for how it manages these types of requests 
going forward.
Santander also agreed to pay Mr G £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, as I 
provisionally directed.  
Mr G said he agreed with many of my provisional findings. However, he did feel that the 
compensation amount should be higher, and he explained why.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any new arguments or presented any new evidence theres no 
reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision about whether Santander dealt with Mr Gs DSAR fairly and reasonably. For 
reasons out in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that it didnt.
I have carefully considered the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr G as a result 
of Santander not acting fairly and reasonably in this particular case. And that includes the 
points hes raised in response to my provisional decision. However, I remain satisfied that 
£100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
So, for the reasons already set out in my provisional decision  an extract of which appears 
above - I uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
Putting things right
Within 28 days of from the date on which our Service notifies it that Mr G has accepted my 
final decision, I direct Santander to:
provide Mr G the information he requested by way of DSAR; and
pay Mr G £100 compensation for distress and convenience.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I direct Santander UK PLC to put things right by doing what Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman