DRN-2198182
The complaint
Mr D complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) told him he would need to 
pay £20 for his laptop to be returned to him, and that the laptop was disposed of.
What happened
Mr D had gadget insurance with D&G, which provided cover for nine different laptops. On 21 
February 2019, he reported a problem with a laptop and was referred by D&G to one of its 
repair agents. 
The laptop was collected on 24 February 2019 (along with another laptop), but on receipt, 
the repair agent noted it wasnt covered under the policy. The laptop was sent back to Mr D 
on 4 March 2019, but when he refused to accept the delivery, it was returned to the repair 
agent. 
Mr D contacted D&G on 23 March 2019 to tell it his laptop had been lost and that, having 
sent two laptops to the repair agent, only one had been returned. He was told the laptop was 
with the repair agent and hed have to contact them to arrange the delivery, but, as it wasnt 
covered under the policy, hed have to pay the £20 delivery fee. Mr D disagreed the laptop 
wasnt covered and, as he refused to pay the delivery fee, the laptop remained with the 
repair agent.
He complained to D&G in November 2019, saying he was unhappy hed have to pay £20 to 
get his laptop back. D&G initially said the repair agent was unable to find a record of the 
laptop and closed the complaint. But after receiving further information from the repair agent, 
it explained the agent had kept the laptop for over six months, but due to a shortage in 
space, the laptop had been destroyed.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He told us his laptop had been 
disposed of because hed refused to pay the delivery charge. But our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. He noted there was no cover in place for the laptop, so he 
thought D&G had acted fairly when it refused to repair it. And he felt it was reasonable for 
D&G to have asked Mr D to pay for the re-delivery. 
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so its been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D thought he had cover in place for the laptop, but D&G has produced a list of devices 
that were covered under the policy and Im satisfied there was no cover under the policy for 
that particular laptop. Consequently, Im satisfied D&Gs refusal to repair it was reasonable. 
The repair agent has confirmed Mr D had refused the delivery after being told the repair 
wasnt covered, and he was told hed need to arrange a re-delivery. Ive considered whether 
its possible the delivery was attempted at the wrong address but as theres evidence the 
lack of cover was discussed with the courier, Ive ruled that out as a possibility. 
Mr D refused the delivery because he didnt accept the laptop wasnt covered, but he should 
have contacted D&G to discuss the issue and I think it was unreasonable for him to have 
simply refused the delivery.
D&G has said it wouldnt have expected the repair agent to incur any extra costs as a result 
of Mr D having refused the delivery and they were within their rights to ask him to cover the 
cost of returning the laptop back to him again. I agree with this and think the requirement on 
Mr D to pay for the cost of the re-delivery was fair.
The repair agent has said it held the laptop for six months before the laptop was disposed of. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr D was warned the laptop would be disposed of if he 
failed to arrange the re-delivery. But I think it was unreasonable for Mr D to have expected 
the repair agent to hold on to it indefinitely in circumstances where D&G had said it wasnt 
covered under the policy and where he was told on two occasions that he would need to 
arrange and pay for the re-delivery himself.
I note that when Mr D called D&G at the end of April, he was told there was no record of a 
claim relating to the laptop and that neither of its repair agents had a live claim for the laptop. 
This was obviously an error on D&Gs part, but one thats reasonably explained by the fact it 
had in its possession an item for which there was no cover. While the information it gave to 
Mr D was inaccurate, Im satisfied Mr D would have known there had been an error and I 
think its unreasonable that he failed to contact it again until November 2019.
Overall, I understand Mr D is frustrated about the loss of his laptop, but this was because he 
didnt arrange and pay for his laptop to be returned to him in a timely manner and in 
accordance with what he was advised to do by D&G. So, I dont think D&G needs to do 
anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman