DRN-2335715
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) gave him unsuitable advice when he invested 
in a bond. He feels that the advice was not appropriate for future tax planning and may 
cause his family a future tax liability.
What happened
Mr P met with a financial advisor at Lloyds in July 2010 to discus his financial circumstances 
and to get advice on investing a lump sum. Following the meeting, the advisor completed a 
Financial Planning Report which was sent to Mr P in September 2010. The report 
summarised the details of the conversation and included information on Mr Ps personal and 
financial circumstances and his investment objectives. The report recommended that Mr P 
invest in a bond and gave reasons for the recommendation.  Mr P went ahead with the 
recommendation and invested £530,000 in an investment bond.
Mr P received information via another financial advisor that the bond which he invested in 
2010 was likely to cause future tax liabilities in the event of his death and that it should have 
been set up differently to have two lives assured on the investment bond. Mr P complained 
to Lloyds that this should have been explained to him at the time of the initial meeting.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ps complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. 
They said that during the initial meeting with the advisor the subject of future tax planning 
was discussed but Mr P had clear ideas on what he wanted and did not wish to discuss 
future inheritance tax planning. Lloyds said that they believed that the advice provided to Mr 
P was suitable and they did not uphold his complaint.
Mr P asked the service to review his complaint and one of our investigators looked at his 
complaint. The investigator held the view that the advice was suitable and agreed with 
Lloyds and did not uphold the complaint. Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P has 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I agree with the view of the investigator and wont be 
upholding the complaint. 
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial objectives.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
I can see that Lloyds had a meeting in 2010 to discuss Mr Ps personal circumstances and 
investment objectives and a Financial Planning Report was produced which summarised this 
conversation. Lloyds gave advice based on Mr Ps answers and the information that he 
provided at the meeting. I dont think that Lloyds made any assumptions based on potential 
future events but gave advice solely on the information that they had at the time.
Mr P says that following a meeting with another financial advisor, he has been made aware 
that the initial set up of his investment bond may cause future tax implications on his 
beneficiaries. Mr P has said that if he had known this at the time then he would have asked 
for other lives to be assured on the policy to mitigate any future tax implications.
I have read the Financial Planning Report and the meeting notes that were produced 
following the fact find meeting with Mr P. As I was not present at the meeting, I cant say for 
certain that it includes everything that was discussed at the meeting.  It does include 
everything that I would expect to see covered in a fact find meeting and I found them to be 
comprehensive. The following points are noted from the documents:
Fact Find
Protecting your liabilities and/or family in the event of death. You did not require advice in 
this area because you have no financial dependents nor liabilities 
Inheritance tax planning. You did not require advice in this area because this is an area that 
you are not concerned with.
During our recent discussion, it was identified that you are looking for advice in relation to 
your investment planning needs to reduce any immediate income tax liability.
Meeting notes 
Although Mr P has a partner he does not wish to include her in any of the conversations we 
have
He is not concerned by any IHT liability for his family and does not wish to discuss 
They share a common property and is aware that we cannot fully explore the benefits of tax 
planning as he does not wish to include her in these discussions although we are advised 
that there is contingent in his will.
From my review of the two documents and the information noted above, I think that the issue 
of future inheritance tax planning was discussed but Mr P did not wish to go into further 
detail. Mr P would have had his own reasons for this, but Lloyds could only offer advice on 
what information was disclosed to them. They could not look ahead to what future lifestyle 
changes Mr P may have had.
From the documents available to me for review, I think that Mr Ps aim was to reduce any 
immediate income tax liability and the investment bond that Lloyds recommended took this 
into account.
In his submission to the service, Mr P has said that Lloyds did not advise him that there was 
an option to have two lives assured and that the inclusion then of another life on the policy 
would neither have excessively constrained his own use of funds or affected his freedom to 
dispose of his assets. Although I sympathise with Mr P on this point, he did not wish to 
discuss some aspects of his personal circumstances and Lloyds made it clear that they could not advise him on future tax liabilities as a result. I cant hold Lloyds responsible for 
future tax arrangements as Mr P said he did not wish to discuss.
Mr P has said that Lloyds should have arranged the policy in such a way that, whatever his 
plans for bequests might eventually be, there would on his death be maximum flexibility in 
dealing with the bond, commensurate with maintaining his freedom to use the funds. As I 
have already said, Lloyds provided the recommendation based on the information that was 
disclosed to them and I think that it is unreasonable to think that they could have provided 
recommendations based whatever Mr Ps future circumstances would be.
There is one area where Lloyds have recorded inherence tax planning:
In addition, you wished that any new arrangement be beneficial for future inheritance tax 
planning should you decide, i.e. the ability to assign the assets or to place into a suitable 
trust if you felt that you no longer had the need for the assets.
I have read this statement and take it to read that should Mr Ps personal circumstances 
change in the future, then the investment bond should have some flexibility to move the 
assets into another name. I have not seen any evidence that this is not the case. 
Based on the information that I have seen and the documentation available to me, I am not 
persuaded that the advice was unsuitable. I dont think that Lloyds have done anything 
wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman