DRN-2944800
The complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him two whole of life cover 
plans in 1995 and 2002.
What happened
After receiving marketing material from Aviva, Mr E purchased a senior 50+ plan in 1995. He 
later purchased subsequent guaranteed over 50 plan in 2002. Both policies provided a basic 
sum assured on death, but the over 50+ plan also provided an opportunity for Mr E to 
participate in any future profits of Aviva. The policies were provided by a company that has 
since been acquired by Aviva and they have taken on responsibility for these policies. I will 
therefore refer to the provider of the polices as Aviva.
Mr E, represented by his son, complained to Aviva in 2021 that hed paid more in premiums 
than the basic death sum assured within the polices, and that it was unfair Aviva hadnt told 
him of this.
Aviva responded to Mr E in May 2021 and explained they hadnt advised Mr E about the 
suitability of the policies. Aviva said they provided him with sufficient information in the 
marketing material, key features, and illustration for him to make an informed decision to 
purchase the policies. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr E wasnt happy with the final response from Aviva and his representative brought the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on his behalf. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and thought that Aviva hadnt done anything significantly wrong. Mr E 
didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. It 
has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr E will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided Aviva didnt do anything significantly wrong. I will now explain why.
Aviva marketed both policies through a direct offer to Mr E. Aviva are responsible for 
ensuring the key information about the policies are made clear and are not misleading. Aviva 
arent responsible for assessing the suitability of these policies in Mr Es circumstances. So, 
my final decision will focus on whether or not Aviva provided enough information for Mr E to 
make an informed decision about whether these policies were suitable for him.
Ive looked at the two policies Mr E purchased. There are some fundamental differences 
between them, and I think it would be useful to deal with each policy separately.
The senior 50+ plan
Mr E signed the application form for this policy in 1995. The application referred him to the 
key features document and an example illustration that Aviva had enclosed. These 
documents told Mr E the policy had a with-profits element and explained how the policy 
worked. The illustration told Mr E the policy was designed to provide a lump sum if he died, 
and that if it was cancelled (or surrendered) he may get back less than he paid in. The 
illustration gave examples of what the surrender value may be worth in the early years and 
later years of the policy. It also explained these werent guaranteed. In the case of this 
policy, if Mr E passed, any death benefit would be paid, and any bonuses payable would be 
added to this amount. The example illustration explained the monthly premium would 
increase each year until year 11 of the policy, and that after this they would remain level for 
the rest of Mr Es life.
Im satisfied Aviva made it clear to Mr E there was a basic death sum assured and that the 
policy would be participating in the profits of Aviva. I consider the documents werent 
misleading or unclear. The illustration made it clear bonuses would be added to the sum 
assured of £10,465. And, when the policy was encashed, Mr E had a basic sum assured and 
bonuses that exceeded the amount hed paid into the policy.
Aviva have told us that they sent an annual bonus statement each year to Mr E. Although 
they were only able to provide a copy of a 2019 bonus statement, I consider its likely they 
did send them because theyve provided full details of the bonuses paid throughout the 
policy. Regardless of whether Mr E received these statements, I consider Aviva provided 
sufficient information for Mr E him to decide if the policy was suitable for him and to be 
aware he may not get back what he paid in if he passed or surrendered it.
The guaranteed over 50 plan
Mr E applied for this policy in 2002. The policy was a direct offer and Aviva didnt provide 
advice on its suitability. 
Over 50s policies like this one are a specific type of non-reviewable (where the premium 
cannot change) whole of life policy, usually marketed for funeral costs where the insuring 
business doesnt require proof of health  and therefore it cannot know from the outset 
anything about a policyholders life expectancy.
General sums assured are offered based on three variables, age, gender, and the premium 
selected. Its for that reason the key features set out that a person can pay more into the 
policy than the guaranteed death benefit if he or she pays premiums for a longer term  in 
Mr Es case this is what happened.
The key features document Aviva sent to Mr E explain the aims and the risks of the policy. 
Mr E was buying the policy without advice, so I would expect the aims and risks to be 
prominent in this document. The aim of the policy was to provide a fixed death benefit for a 
fixed premium. Although there was a possibility of a cash-in value later in the policy, it seems 
more likely Mr E purchased this policy for protection rather than savings. One of the risks 
included said, If you live long enough the total premiums paid will eventually be greater than 
the amount payable on death. In my opinion the aims and the risks were prominent in the 
key features and they werent misleading.
Mr Es representative is unhappy Aviva didnt tell Mr E when the amount hed paid into
the policy exceeded the death benefit. I appreciate the point made here, but Mr E had life
cover guaranteed for the whole of his life, which is what he applied for. If Mr E had passed
in the early years Aviva would likely have paid out more than hed paid in, after an initial 
qualifying period. In this case, there was a cash-in value and it was explained prominently
in the key features Aviva sent to Mr E. It was for Mr E to review the information about the
policy to decide if he wanted to go ahead with it or not. While Aviva could have toldMr E when the amount hed paid in exceeded the death benefit, Ive seen nothing in the
documents they were obliged to do this, or that they committed to it at the start of the policy.
Mr Es representative asked why there was a difference in the cash-in value for a policy
Mr E took and one that his wife took at the same time with Aviva. This may be something
the representative wishes to take up with Aviva, as its not part of the complaint Ive
considered. However, if it helps provide some clarity, I can see the premiums are different,
and age and gender considerations are also taken into account when life cover is being paid
for. These factors are likely to be a reason for any difference in actual cash-in values.
The representative says Aviva failed in their duty of care to Mr E. The Financial
Ombudsman Services work often involves assessing complaints against the standards at
the time of the event complained about. My final decision involved an assessment of what I
believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es individual case, considering
what happened against the law, rules, codes, and good practice that applied at the time. Im
satisfied Aviva didnt act unreasonably or unfairly in this case.
My final decision
Ive decided that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
operating Mr Es policies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman