DRN-3233836
The complaint
Mr S complains Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited have caused him non-financial 
loss through the administration of two loans he guarantees for a third party.  
What happened
Mr S acts as a guarantor for two loans which were provided by Future Finance to a third 
party. Mr S says Future Finance has made numerous errors in the administration of these 
loans; which have resulted in him suffering distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator issued an assessment on Mr Ss complaint which set out the main timeline 
of events and concluded that Future Finance should make a total payment of £750. This 
payment was to take into account the money Future Finance had already paid Mr S; plus, 
further compensation to recognise the errors that had been made. Our investigator also 
recommended a default be removed; that arrears be re-mortised back into the loan at the 
end of the agreement (which had been previously agreed between both parties). 
Mr S disagreed the total amount awarded was fair. He also argues Future Finance have not 
paid all of the previously agreed offers of compensation. Future Finance agreed to pay the 
total amount recommended by our investigator. It disputes the amount of money it needs to 
pay Mr S in order to meet the total agreed limit. Mr S says Future Finance had only paid a 
total of £400 to date; whereas Future Finance says this figure is £475.
Mr S wants an increase in compensation and for the capital balance for the third partys loan 
to be written off. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments raised by Mr S; but Im satisfied the 
recommended total award of £750 in this instance is fair.  
When considering the overall timeline and the issues involved, Im satisfied a significant 
award is warranted. Ive used the guidelines set out on our website to help inform this 
decision. Looking at this; Im satisfied the total award of £750 falls within that category and 
as such is fair in this instance.
In coming to this conclusion Ive relied on these key events:
Mr S first complained in October 2019. At this point Future Finance had made an 
error in failing to set up a direct debit order for Mr S to cover the third parties loan 
payments and thereby preventing a default being registered. However; Future 
Finance failed to follow its own actions which resulted in Mr S having a default 
registered against him. Future Finance offered £250 compensation at this point, and 
to resolve issues with the arrears that had accrued, and the removal of the default;
Mr S had to contact Future Finance again in December 2019. Future Finance 
admitted it had failed again to carry out the actions it said it would in relation to the 
arrears. Future Finance refunded a payment of £75 to Mr S plus an additional £10 to 
recognise the errors;
Future Finance again failed to set up a direct debit correctly; causing them to contact 
Mr S on numerous occasions, leading to further complications with Mr Ss credit file. 
Future Finance and Mr S agreed a payment of £75 as a gesture of goodwill at this 
point. Mr S says this payment has not been received to date. Future Finance dispute 
this;
In September 2021 the default which had previously been removed reappeared on 
Mr Ss credit file. Future Finance said this was because of a technical error on its 
system. Future Finance offered £150 as recognition of this error.
When considering these key events, Im persuaded Future Finance has made repeated 
errors which have caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr S. It has also 
caused a number of these issues unprompted and not followed its own instructions when 
agreeing resolutions with Mr S. This has compounded the impact of the upset caused to    
Mr S. So with that in mind Im satisfied a significant award is warranted; and the £750 
recommended reflects this.
There is a dispute over whether Future Finance has paid £400 or £475 to date in 
compensation. Future Finance has asked Mr S to provide evidence of his bank statements 
so it can calculate the correct amount of redress it is due to pay. Mr S has not provided 
these statements to Future Finance; but maintains the amount was not received by him. Mr 
S says he is unable to get these statements.
Having reviewed the information to date there is conflicting information. Future Finance has 
provided evidence which demonstrates the amount was sent to Mr S, so I think it is more 
likely than not this money was sent. However, if Mr S is able to demonstrate to Future 
Finance this amount was not received, then he should do so. If he is able to demonstrate the 
amount of £75 was not received then Future Finance should pay this additional amount (as it 
has agreed to do so). 
Finally, Mr S wants the remaining capital balance for the third party written off. Whilst I can 
understand his point of view, this is not an award I can make in relation to this complaint. 
This is because the loan capital went to the third party; and any issues in relation to that 
would need to be referred to us directly by the third party. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited to:
Pay Mr S a total of £750 in compensation. This amount is a minimum of £275, but if 
Mr S can demonstrate not all payments for compensation have been received then 
the amount should increase to £350 to reflect that;
Remove the default on Mr Ss credit file as had been previously agreed;
Complete the re-arrangement of the arrears as had previously been agreed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman