DRN-3295595
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around July 2017, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a five-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr S but said it would pay Mr S £200 in recognition of the delay in its 
response to the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr S denies ever having seen the quote. The evidence you have provided to support 
your decision does not appear to be the full quotation and rather pages which would 
form part of the quotation, of which Mr S does not hold copies of the same. 
Mr S was repeatedly told by the sales agent that the panels would pay for 
themselves of which he understood this to mean that the energy generated from the 
solar panels would produce sufficient income to cover the monthly loan repayments, 
and for the avoidance of doubt, that the system would be self-funding.
Noting the figures provided in both the documentation provided by you and the 
adjudicators decision, it appears that the system would not become self-funding until 
between years 13 and 14, which is way beyond the period of Mr Ss 5-year loan 
agreement. This clearly does not reflect the information provided to Mr S during the 
sales meeting. 
Had Mr S been made aware that it would take this length of time to reap any benefit 
from the system, he would not have agreed to the purchase, especially considering 
the length of the loan agreement opted for. 
Although some figures were referred to at the meeting, these were contained on the 
sales agents tablet and were not explained to Mr S properly, other than that he 
would make money from the system and it would be self-funding. The sales agent 
was pushy in his approach and keen to secure the sale, therefore Mr S relied on 
these verbal statements and agreed to proceed with the purchase on this basis.
Mr S recalls signing some paperwork, but he has told us that he believes this was 
hand-signed.
On the basis he does not recall seeing the quotation and the fact that this is 
electronically signed, we cannot be confident that the signature on the pages 
provided by you is that of Mr S.
Mr S further denies receiving a copy of the quotation following the meeting. He has 
checked his emails and has found nothing further from Project Solar. Had he have 
been shown the quotation or made aware of its contents he would not have 
proceeded with the purchase given that the figures do not confirm the system to be 
self-funding.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Getting Started Ive considered 
these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made by P.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Ss recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Mr S agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I 
have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr S agreed to enter into the contract. My 
understanding is that the quote wouldve been signed electronically (using a touchscreen) 
and that seems to be what happened here. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments
Mr S have alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr S has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £152.22.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £269.93 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mr S the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £557.15. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 60 monthly payments of £184.70. For each year of the five-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £184.70, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way 
of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr S that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr S could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 14, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,311 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,655 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P generally used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data over the previous ten years to 
calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases 
between 2017 and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point 
of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P wouldve been based on the information 
available from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S couldve expected 
to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been 
as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman