DRN-3781712
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded interest-only mortgage Miss K holds with Bank of 
Scotland plc (BOS). Shes unhappy that BOS:
refused her a new interest rate until she had cleared arrears on the mortgage, and then 
only provided a two-year deal;
lent her more money in 2017 that she couldnt afford to repay; and
refused to change the mortgage to capital repayment.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss K and BOS Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our investigator thought BOS had 
dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss K being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
As a starting point, no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider context 
and individual circumstances in all cases. Most lenders, when asked to provide a new rate to 
a borrower with an arrears history, require the borrower to try and address the arrears before 
theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession and then sold. Or, 
the borrower might decide the mortgage is unaffordable and that they need to sell the 
property, either to downsize or to go to living with family or friends, or into rented 
accommodation. If a sale happened for either of those reasons, then the ERC clause would 
be activated resulting in an extra amount being added to the closing balance on sale. 
So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting on asking the borrower(s) to try and 
repay (or at least reduce) the arrears first. They generally take a similar view with regard to 
capitalising arrears. Thats because capitalisation means paying the arrears off over the 
remaining life of the mortgage, which requires the monthly payment to go up permanently, 
separate from any other variable factor. 
The key thing any lender is looking for when assessing whether to make one or more of the 
above changes to a mortgage, is stability. When borrowers have been in financial trouble, 
the lenders will typically only agree a change if its satisfied the instability that caused the 
arrears in the first place has now passed, and the proposed change is about recovering from 
a financial shock that has now passed, even though its effects have not. 
Thats what happened here, and whilst I appreciate Miss K had to make some adjustments 
elsewhere in order to clear the arrears, thats not unreasonable. Aside from the mortgage 
having a higher priority than any other debts (as her home was at risk if she didnt deal with 
the arrears) Miss K had a further incentive to address the arrears in that doing so enabled 
BOS to offer her the new fixed rate that she wanted.
As for the new deal that BOS provided, Im satisfied it was suitable for her circumstances as 
they stood at the relevant time. Miss K has argued that she should have been offered a 
five-year deal, but in the Reasons for our Recommendation document BOS issued on 
21January 2022, it recorded her as saying she wanted her payments not to change for a 
minimum of two year, and for no longer than three years. Insofar as the available rates were 
fixed for either two or five years, BOS recommendation was fair.
The additional lending in 2017 wasnt a new lending decision; rather it was a release of a 
retention that had been kept back from the amount Miss K had asked to borrow in 2007. If 
Miss K felt she wouldnt be able to afford the higher monthly payment that would follow as a 
result of the retention release, she had the option to tell BOS she didnt want it. 
I fully understand why a lender might be hesitant (indeed reluctant) to agree to switch a 
mortgage from interest-only to capital repayment when the borrower is simultaneously 
complaining that the mortgage is already unaffordable due to the retention release. In that 
context, I share our investigators view that Miss K is arguing two contrary positions. Ive 
noted what she has said about her difficulties being periodic rather than long-term, but shes 
also told us she only managed to clear her arrears by borrowing from family and leaving 
other debts unpaid. Ultimately, its BOS judgement to make and Ive no grounds to interfere 
with that.
Miss K has said that part of the complaint about how the mortgage was sold in the first place 
is that the term was too short, and if BOS were to extend the term, a repayment mortgage 
would then be affordable. The current term is what Miss K asked for in 2007 (and whether 
that was suitable for her at the time is a matter for the separate complaint against the broker 
firm that sold the mortgage) and the basis on which BOS was expecting to be repaid when it 
agreed to lend her the money.
Its not immediately evident whether Miss K has asked for a term extension; its not 
mentioned in BOS final response or the afore-mentioned Reasons for our Recommendation 
letter. If its something Miss K has thought of as a new argument since the complaint came 
to us, then she would first need to ask BOS formally for a term extension  as a means of 
rendering a switch to capital repayment affordable  and make a fresh complaint if that were 
then rejected. If she did that, then to be clear, nothing I say here obliges BOS to agree to a future request 
for a change, and nothing of that nature should be inferred. Any future request for a term 
extension and/or a switch to capital repayment would still be subject to BOS assessment of 
its long-term viability at the relevant time.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman