DRN-3833895
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) trading as ALPHERA Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O, but I dont think BMWFS need to take any further action. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here was about 
six years old and had already completed about 60,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear and not to be in pristine condition.
Mr O had been in possession of the car for a little over six months when he says the engine 
management light came on. A subsequent inspection by Mazda identified a number of 
issues. Given the time that had passed since he took receipt of the car, and the fact he had 
driven almost 6,000 miles in it by the time it failed, I think the onus was on Mr O to 
demonstrate the faults the car was suffering from were present, or developing, from the start 
(the point at which BMWFS were responsible for the cars quality).
I dont think Mr O has been able to do that because:
The Mazda report doesnt comment on when the faults were likely to have 
developed.
The independent inspector who is an expert on these matters doesnt think its likely 
the faults were present when the car was supplied to Mr O. 
An MOT was completed when the car was supplied to Mr O. Had there been 
evidence of the problems subsequently identified in the Mazda report I think its likely 
they would have been referred to, as the Mazda report suggests they make the car 
unroadworthy.
Mr O has queried the independence of the engineer commissioned by BMWFS. Im 
persuaded of the engineers independence because he is a representative of a company 
frequently used by other finance providers to produce independent reports, and because 
hes provided a statement that explains he understands his duty is to the court. I think that 
suggests hes aware of the need to provide an independent view.
I note that the independent engineer made no reference to the turbo boost problem identified 
in the Mazda report. I can understand that it wouldnt have been possible to consider that 
issue as the car couldnt be started; there was no oil in it. I think its likely such an issue 
would have been identified in the MOT and, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think Mr O 
has provided sufficient evidence to suggest that fault was present or developing at the point 
of supply. I dont think its unreasonable to suggest he would have been unlikely to be able to 
drive 6,000 miles in the car if it was.
I note that since Mr O referred his complaint to this service he has questioned whether the 
car has been misrepresented to him. He says it was advertised as having a full service 
history, but hes not been provided with that. I cant see that Mr O has ever asked the 
business to consider that issue so, in the circumstances, I think BMWFS need to be given a 
chance to do that first. But if Mr O is unhappy with BMWFSs response to that complaint or 
doesnt hear from BMWFS within eight weeks of his complaint to them, he can make a 
separate complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service should he choose to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman