DRN-3119420
The complaint
Mr S complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) for delays to repairs to 
his central heating system. He feels that he was discriminated against and abused during 
engineer visits. 
What happened
Mr S held cover with British Gas which insured his central heating system against 
breakdown. He has been a customer of British Gas for many years. 
Mr S has health conditions which make him vulnerable to being without hot water and/or 
heating. British Gas was aware of this.
In December 2020 his cover renewed. In the renewal letter British Gas set out a parts 
availability warning for Mr Ss boiler. It explained that the boiler manufacturer stopped 
making some parts for Mr Ss boiler a while ago and, whilst the main parts may be available, 
some other parts were becoming difficult to source. 
In June 2021, Mr Ss boiler suffered a breakdown. 
Engineers from British Gas attended Mr Ss home on multiple occasions over the following 
two weeks. During these visits, the engineers repeated to Mr S that the boiler ought to be 
replaced due to its age and the difficulties that Mr S would face in getting parts.
They noted that the fan was not working, but initially thought that this was due to broken 
capacitors. 
They order replacements and returned to fit these.
It then emerged that the fan itself was the issue. British Gas advised Mr S to obtain the 
replacement part and agreed to fit the part and reimburse him for it. 
The fan and other parts were replaced, and the boiler began working again on 30 June 
2021.
During that visit, Mr S told the engineer about a leak elsewhere in his system and was 
advised to book an appointment relating to that. 
Mr S contacted British Gas later that day and booked an appointment for the following day. 
He was informed that British Gas had decided to cancel his cover and would cancel his 
appointment. 
Mr S complained. He said that engineers had been abusive to him in his home and that he 
had CCTV footage of them being so. He said that he had feared for his safety, and that he 
felt that he was racially discriminated against. 
Mr S then contacted us. 
British Gas has responded to Mr Ss complaint denying that it its engineers abused or 
racially discriminated against Mr S. British Gas acknowledged it ought not to cancel Mr Ss 
cover without due warning and has agreed to continue covering Mr Ss boiler unless Mr S 
breaks the terms of cover.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaints and did not uphold them. He set out that he 
had not seen evidence of wrongdoing, delays, or abuse in the actions of British Gas. He 
noted that Mr S had previously said that he had CCTV footage of abuse and explained that 
he would review his opinion if this was provided.
Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed my colleagues view letter in which he set out the points raised by Mr S and 
his response to these. I agree with all that he has said. 
I have reviewed the schedule of appointments and the timeline provided by Mr S and I 
cannot see evidence of delays from British Gas in respect of attending Mr S, or in obtaining 
the parts that were needed. 
Mr S has complained that the engineers who attended advised him that he ought to replace 
his boiler as it was old, and parts were becoming increasingly difficult to obtain. I accept that 
they likely did so, and that this is consistent with the renewal information which advised Mr S 
that parts for his model of boiler were no longer being made. I think that was borne out by 
the fact that a replacement part obtained was likely reconditioned, and I think that this was 
likely good advice as delays obtaining parts could be detrimental to Mr S if the boiler were to 
next breakdown in cold weather.  
Mr S has said he felt abused and threatened by engineers who attended his home. British 
Gas has strongly denied that any aggressive or unprofessional behaviour took place from its 
engineers. No evidence or detail of the abuse which Mr S alleges has been provided, and he 
has not provided the CCTV he said he had. Without this evidence I am unable to form a 
reliable view on what was said and how the parties behaved, and so I am unable to uphold 
this complaint. 
Overall, I agree with the assessment of my colleague and have not seen evidence of 
wrongdoing by British Gas. I agree that British Gas ought not to withdraw cover without 
following its proper process but agree that British Gas agreeing to continue cover addresses 
this point. 
Consequently, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr S, I do not uphold Mr 
Ss complaint and do not ask British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not ask British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman