DRN-2242183
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Oakam Ltd (trading as Oakam) gave him an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
Mr S took one instalment loan for £300 from Oakam in August 2018. The first fortnightly 
instalment was for £71.45, followed by 12 fortnightly instalments of £43.85.
The most recent correspondence from Oakam showed no payments were made towards the 
loan balance. As a result, the loan was assigned to a third party collection company. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think Oakam was wrong to 
lend to Mr S based on the information it gathered about Mr Ss financial circumstances at the 
time.
It appears that Oakam agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed and provided 
the following complaint points;
Mr S was approved the loan while having open pay day loans in arrears and a few 
accounts in default.
He had two loan companies already uphold a different complaint and one partially 
uphold, both of which were taken out a couple of months before the Oakam loan.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was provided. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Based on what Ive seen I dont think 
Oakam were wrong to approve Mr Ss loan. Id like to explain why.
When Mr S applied for his loan, Oakam asked Mr S about his monthly income (declared as 
£1,400) and it completed a credit check with a Credit Reference Agency.
Oakam has provided this service with the result of its credit checks. It seems it was aware of 
some adverse information showing on Mr Ss credit file. The results of the credit check show 
Mr S had seven active accounts with balances totalling £1,939. 
But Ive also thought about the fact that the default (which was recorded in January 2018) 
balance was £40 and had been recorded seven months before the loan was approved. So, 
in my view, I dont think this information wouldve been enough, on its own for Oakam to 
have either declined the application or have prompted it to have carried out further, more in-
depth, checks.
The credit check results also show Mr S had at times a number of accounts which were in 
arrears. But it seems these accounts had been settled, with the most recent one being 
settled in June 2018. So Oakam knew of two accounts being settled in the two months prior 
to this loan application, but these werent open at the time of the loan. 
The results also showed that Mr S had taken out another loan in April 2017 and had being 
having problems repaying this loan. I know, from the check that this loan hadnt been repaid 
by the time Oakam carried out its credit search.  But given when the loan was taken out, 
although in arrears, it was unlikely Oakam wouldve thought the repayment for this loan 
wouldve been made during the term of the loan that it provided. 
And given the two loans that Mr S had settled in the months before the loan being approved 
overall, why the credit checks do show adverse credit file information, I think it was just 
about reasonable for Oakam to have provided the loan to Mr S  based on what it found out.  
I acknowledge that Mr S feels he had a number of payday loans in arrears at the time of his 
loan application, and that Oakam shouldnt have lent to him for this reason. Mr S has 
provided a copy of his credit file. 
But ultimately, Oakam completed a credit check and was presented with information 
showing only one short-term loan was open at the time which was in arrears. And given this 
was the first loan, and there wasnt anything that Oakam was provided to make it think the 
credit check results werent accurate. So, I dont think its unreasonable that it relied on what 
it was told. I know that Mr S has had some of his other complaints upheld by other short-term lenders. 
But, Ive considered this complaint on the individual circumstances and what Oakam was 
aware of at the time.  
This was Mr S first and only loan with Oakam, so the lender had no lending history to go by. 
And based on the information the lender gathered about Mr Ss circumstances, I think it was 
just about reasonable for Oakam to have lent without the need for it to go as far as verifying 
the information Mr S told it by obtaining his bank statements or other documentation. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable that Oakam made the decision to lend.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I want to assure him 
that Ive considered the comments he has made. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman