DRN-2412464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them fee-paying 
Gold Service and Premier packaged bank accounts.  
What happened
Following our involvement, Lloyds agreed to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about the 
Gold Service account, but did not uphold the complaint about the Premier account. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she explained that Lloyds had upheld 
the Gold Service account, so didnt address the merits of the complaint about that sale. But 
she did address the sale of the Premier account and didnt think it had been mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs K agreed with the adjudicators findings about the Premier account, but disputed 
the redress that Lloyds offered to put matters right in relation to the Gold Service account. 
So the matter has been referred for an ombudsmans decision.
As Mr and Mrs K have confirmed that they accepted the adjudicators findings concerning the 
sale of the Premier account i.e. that it was not mis-sold, this decision will only address 
whether Lloydss offer to put matters right about the Gold Service account is fair and 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website. And Ive used 
this to help me decide this case. 
Having carefully considered everything that both Mr and Mrs K and Lloyds have provided, I 
think the settlement offer that Lloyds set out in its letter dated 15 May 2020 is fair and 
reasonable. I will explain why.
Account fees refunded back to April 1995
One reason why Mr and Mrs K disputed the settlement offer, was they didnt think the offer 
included a refund going back to April 1995. I understand that they thought it only dated back 
to 2001. 
Looking at how the account fees were added up, I can see that the refund calculations were 
based on Mr and Mrs K having the Gold Service account since April 1995. This seems 
reasonable given that Mr and Mrs K were able to provide evidence that they held a Gold 
Service account from this point in time. Now that the redress calculations have been shared 
with Mr and Mrs K, I hope they have been reassured that the account fee refund has been 
correctly calculated.
Compound or simple interest?
Another reason why Mr and Mrs K objected to the settlement offer was because theyd been 
told by the complaint handler at Lloyds that they would receive compensatory interest on a 
compound basis. Weve checked with Lloyds and it has confirmed that the complaint handler 
did say this. But Lloyds explained that it was said in error and that he shouldve said 8% 
simple, less basic rate tax. Looking at Lloydss settlement offer, I can see that the interest 
was calculated on a simple basis.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that the interest has not been calculated on a 
compound basis  after all this wouldve increased the settlement amount by a significant 
amount. And this was how the offer was originally explained to them. However, as Mr and 
Mrs K now dispute the amount offered, I have to decide whether what Lloyds has already 
offered to settle this matter is fair and reasonable, or whether it should do anything else to 
put matters right.  
As our adjudicator has explained to Mr and Mrs K, our service generally thinks its 
reasonable that compensatory interest (i.e. interest awarded where a consumer has not had 
the benefit of certain sums of money), should be on a simple, not compound basis. And 
should be at a rate of 8% per year, less basic rate tax. I can see our adjudicator shared a 
link to our website with Mr and Mrs K that explains this.
Looking at Lloydss settlement offer of 15 May 2020, I can see that Lloyds calculated its offer 
in line with how we would usually expect it to do so i.e. 8% simple interest, less deductible 
tax. I appreciate Lloyds did initially give Mr and Mrs K wrong information about this, but it has 
since clarified this issue. And, Mr and Mrs K have given me no reason why, in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, I should depart from our general approach of awarding 
simple, rather than compound, interest. 
As such I think the compensatory interest award included in Lloydss settlement offer (which 
I understand has already been paid to Mr and Mrs K), is fair and reasonable. Therefore I 
wont be asking Lloyds to pay any further compensatory interest to Mr and Mrs K. As a 
reminder, if Mr and Mrs K are still not be happy with this, they are free to not accept my 
decision and pursue the matter outside of our service, should they wish to do so.
Overdraft fees and returned item fees between April 1995 and September 2001
Mr and Mrs K have also asked why no overdraft fees or returned item fees were included in 
the redress between April 1995 and September 2001. 
As explained by the adjudicator, this was for the simple reason that Lloyds has no record of 
the transactions that took place on the account prior to September 2001. So it is unable to 
determine if Mr and Mrs K did incur any overdraft charges and returned item fees - as a 
direct result of the monthly account fee being charged to the account - in this time. 
However, I would also point out that, although some charges mightve been charged in this 
period, that wouldve been refunded had there been evidence of them, its also the case that 
any savings Mr and Mrs K received in this period as a result of having the Gold Service 
account, have not been deducted from the redress either. 
Looking at Lloydss offer, its clear that the savings Mr and Mrs K received since 2001 (as a 
result of having the Gold Service account) far outweighed the overdraft charges and 
returned item fees that were directly incurred due to the account fee in the same period. So 
again, based on what I have seen, I think Lloydss settlement offer is not unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
Returned item fees since September 2001Mr and Mrs K have asked why returned item fees incurred since September 2001 have not 
been included in the redress. 
Firstly, I would point out that our service would only deem returned item fees that were 
incurred solely as a direct result of the account fee debiting the account to be refunded back 
to consumers. Secondly, looking at Lloyds settlement offer, the returned item fees in 
Lloydss redress calculations that Mr and Mrs K have referred to were included in its 
settlement offer.
In this case I can see Lloyds calculated that Mr and Mrs K had incurred £220 of returned 
item fees (as a direct result of the account fee debiting the account) between September 
2001 and April 2012. These fees were included in Lloydss settlement offer, they were 
described as Other charges you incurred as a result of holding your PBA (e.g. overdraft 
fees). 
The total figure for this part of the redress was £244.82, because it also included a £15 
overdraft charge (incurred between January and February 2011) and £9.82 of overdraft 
interest, that again would not have been incurred had the monthly account fee not debited 
the account.
So, based on everything I have seen, I think that Lloyds settlement offer, which I will set out 
below, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Refund Gold Service account fees from April 1995 to April 2012 - £1887.88
Other charges incurred because of the account fee from September 2001 to April 
2012 - £244.82
Compensatory interest (8% simple per year, less tax) calculated from April 1995 to 
date of settlement - £2,102.52 (after tax deduction of £525.64)
Less benefits received as a result of having Gold Service account from September 
2001 to April 2012 - £670.95
Total amount due: £3,564.27
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Lloyds is required to do anything more, 
than what it had already offered to do as outlined above, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman