DRN-3468484
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) voided their
home insurance policy and refused to pay the claim they made.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 April 2022 detailing my intention to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, I said:
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs C told LV about cracking and damage to their property.
LV registered the claim. It asked that Mr and Mrs C send it evidence of the damage including
photographs and the pre purchase survey.
LV voided the policy because it said Mr and Mrs C hadnt disclosed the propertys history of
subsidence either when they took out the policy in 2018 or at subsequent renewals. It asked
Mr and Mrs C to send in any further information they wanted LV to consider within seven
days.
Mr and Mrs C was unable to respond in time by post. So, they sent the information by e-mail
and made telephone calls to LV.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with LVs actions to void the policy and complained. They felt
aggrieved by statements that they had lied when they took out the policy. That they were told
by LV the voided policy didnt need to be declared to insurers was incorrect. As a result of
the voided policy they are unable to obtain insurance at affordable prices and they are
concerned how the voided policy will affect future insurance needs.
Mr and Mrs C said LVs communication was poor. Mr and Mrs C asked for information LV
had relied on to determine the property had suffered from historical subsidence and LV
responded quoting from the pre purchase survey. They also mentioned that they didnt have
the opportunity to speak to the same LV contact.
LV reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs complaint but its decision to void the policy remained
unchanged. It offered £75 compensation to recognise the service issues Mr and Mrs C
experienced.
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to our service, and our investigator didnt uphold the
complaint.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
They said, amongst other things, that LV didnt disclose what information its decision to void
the policy was based on and the difficulty they experienced with LVs systems and
contacting it. Mr and Mrs C provided a survey report from August 2021 where the structural
engineer advises there is no subsidence at the property. They also provided comments from
the original surveyor who also said the property wasnt suffering from subsidence.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy avoidance and cancellation
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time. The relevant law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act
2012 (CIDRA). Under this legislation a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation.
In determining whether Mr and Mrs C took reasonable care the relevant law says that should
be determined in the light of all the circumstances. And it provides examples of things that
may need to be taken into account; how clear and how specific the insurers questions were,
in connection with the inception or renewal of an insurance contract, how clearly the insurer
communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the possible consequences
of failing to do so).
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as 
a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt
made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV said Mr and Mrs C made a misrepresentation when they said their property didnt have
signs of subsidence. LV consider this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation which
meant it has avoided the policy, declined to deal with the claim and returned all the
premiums Mr and Mrs C paid for the polices since theyve been with LV.
LV thinks Mr and Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when they took out the policy online. I understand Mr C disagrees he took the policy out
online and says he discussed it on the phone with LV. However, Ive seen LVs system notes
that shows the policy was taken out online. While I take on board Mr Cs comments and
recollection, Ive considered that memories can fade over time. Based on the available
evidence, it seems more likely, on balance, that the system notes are correct, and the policy
was taken out online.
The question asked at inception was Has the house ever had or ever shown any signs of
subsidence, landslip or heave? to which Mr and Mrs C replied No.
LV said in each renewal Mr and Mrs C were asked to check if the information was correct
including the following assumption the property Has not suffered from or shown signs of
subsidence, landslip or heave.
LV said that Mr and Mrs C answered this question No when the policy was taken out and
they didnt report any issues on each renewal. Mr and Mrs C do not dispute the question wasasked but said that they dont believe LV asked the question in the correct way.
LV based its opinion that the answer given by Mr and Mrs C was incorrect on the contents of
the pre purchase report. The paragraph in the report LV has relied on is under 5.21
Structural Movement it says:
Evidence of old structural movement was noted in the form of cracking and distortion to
some of the external walls to the original building. Im unable to confirm that further
significant movement will not occur. Further movement would seem unlikely but from a
single but from a single inspection this cannot be positively established and further specialist
may be prudent.
The structural movement, however, appears old and my inspection revealed no evidence of
any instability to cracked or distorted construction. As previously recommended, old cracks
should be filled or repaired using traditional methods where deemed necessary to prevent
further deterioration and prevent water ingress which can cause damp related defects to
adjacent construction.
Cracks and distortion to flint walls may have been caused by natural settlement, possibly
exacerbated by poor workmanship. Further movement may require re-stitching with
salvaged or replacement flint and such work should be undertaken by an experienced and
highly skilled craftsman. It may, however, be possible to strengthen the walls without too
much disturbance to masonry by using stainless steel rods/wires within and through the flint.
Such work should be specified by a structural engineer or other suitably qualified
professional preferably specialising in the field of repair of historic buildings.
In view of the evidence of old building movement, it is strongly recommended you have a
precautionary CCTV drainage survey undertaken, prior to purchase, to confirm condition and
need for repair, as leaking drains can affect foundation stability and cause serious structural
damage to construction. The property is believed to be built on chalk sub-soil and you should
also be aware of my comments made regarding the risk of subsidence in Section 3.02 the
site and surrounding area.
Some insurers, however, may not provide full cover for the property because of the old
movement and you should make further enquiries about this prior to purchase. This may
also deter some prospective purchasers and could affect future saleability.
Ive also considered that LV has shown us that when Mr and Mrs C completed the
information online that there was available a further information button next to the question
which said
Subsidence is the sinking of the ground your home stands on. Subsidence damage can
appear as cracks around windows and doors. Landslip is the movement of ground down a
slope. Heave is the rising of the ground your home stands on. It can happen when trees are
removed. You must answer yes to this question even if signs of subsidence, landslip or
heave appear historic or non progressive.
However, I note it hasnt shown that this was read by Mr and Mrs C and even if they did read
it when looking at CIDRA, I need to consider what Mr and Mrs C reasonably knew about the
damage at the time of taking out the policy. I agree with Mr and Mrs C that the report doesnt
explicitly mention the word subsidence, and although cracking, distortions, and movement
can be common signs of subsidence not all cracking and distortion and movement means
there is subsidence. I think its fair that Mr and Mrs C who arent experts in subsidence and
its signs, to rely on the report written by an expert. And as they didnt link any of the cracking
and distortion to subsidence, it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs C not to either.LV has also said given the report also said, "Some insurers, however, may not provide full
cover for the property because of the old movement and you should make further enquiries
about this prior to purchase." LV thinks its reasonable that Mr and Mrs C should have made
it aware. And had they done so it wouldn't have insured them. Ive considered this but the
question asked was about previous subsidence but not old movement in general. So only if
the report had noted previous subsidence would Mr and Mrs C have been required to
mention it in order to comply with CIDRA.
In addition, Mr and Mrs C have provided LV with comments from the original surveyor that
supports that his report makes no reference to subsidence or progressive movement. LV
have had an opportunity to review this alongside a report Mr and Mrs C had commissioned
in August 2021. And it has said it has not changed its decision. Im not placing weight on the
latter report as this was obtained after the time of the qualifying misrepresentation and was
written by someone who hadnt seen the building at the time the policy was taken out, so its
less persuasive then the report which was. But I think the comments from the original
surveyor validate that the property hadnt shown previous signs of subsidence. So, I dont
think LVs decision to treat the misrepresentation as a qualifying one is fair and reasonable,
and in line with CIDRA.
I therefore intend to instruct LV to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim and remove
any voidance markers on internal or external databases.
Customer Service
Mr and Mrs C have described the repeated difficulty they had with raising their objections to
LVs decision to cancel the policy within the seven days it provided. This includes receiving
the letter of intention to cancel policy late and only by post, difficulties with using LVs
systems, its staffs knowledge and understanding of the cancellation given the time
sensitivity of the 7-day process, lack of responses and information, poor communication and
lack of clarity.
I appreciate LV couldve sent the cancellation by email, but I cant say it was wrong or made
an error by sending it by letter only. I also note that the letter doesnt say it must be
responded to in writing and provides a telephone number to contact LV. And from what Ive
seen this is what Mr and Mrs C did, so Im satisfied that this didnt prevent them from making
contact within the seven days and I can see, their objections to the cancellation are recorded
on LVs system.
I agree with Mr and Mrs C that LV could have been clearer in the information as to why the
policy was cancelled, and what evidence they were relying on sooner. I can see this was
resolved in the email LV sent Mr and Mrs C on 7 July 2021 when it clarified the information it
relied on. But I think LV could have done this sooner either as part of the first cancellation
notice on 22 June 2021 or it could have contacted Mr and Mrs C by email sooner than it did.
With regards to Mr and Mrs Cs comments about LV advising them that they didnt need to
declare the cancelled policy to future insurers. Ive not seen any evidence to support this, I
can see there was a conversation about this on 6 July 2021. LV said if Mr and Mrs C were
asked whether the policy was cancelled due to fraud then they can say no. So, it doesnt
look like LV told Mr and Mrs C that they didnt need to declare the cancellation at all, just that
they could say the policy wasnt cancelled due to fraud if they were asked, which is correct.
So, Im satisfied LV didnt make an error.
However, LV also could have been clearer in their communication with Mr and Mrs C about
its complaint process.Having considered the errors LV have made and the distress and upset this caused Mr and
Mrs C, Im satisfied the £75 LV has offered is appropriate to recognise the impact of its poor
customer service on Mr and Mrs C. So, I wont be asking LV to pay more compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold this complaint and instruct LV to reinstate the
policy and reconsider the claim. Remove any voidance markers on internal or external
databases. If it hasnt already pay Mr and Mrs C £75.00 compensation.
Responses to Provisional Decision
LV didnt agree to my provisional decision. In summary it has said:
Common language was used in both Mr and Mrs Cs pre house purchase survey 
(issued prior to policy purchase) and LVs additional information available to Mr and 
Mrs C at time of purchasing the policy. The pre purchase survey referred to cracking 
evidencing old structural movement. At the time Mr and Mrs C purchased the policy, 
LVs additional information mentioned subsidence can appear as cracks around 
windows and doors.
The pre purchase survey mentioned Evidence of old structural movement was noted 
in the form of cracking and distortion to some of the external walls to the original 
building. It refers that I mentioned the question asked when purchasing the policy 
was about previous subsidence rather than old movement in general. LV said its 
additional information referred to movement as sinking in the statement Subsidence 
is the sinking of the ground and that Mr and Mrs C should answer yes to this 
question even if the movement was historic.
Mr and Mrs C could have contacted LV when purchasing the policy  by using online 
chat team, call centre staff  but chose not to.
My provisional decision removed all accountability from Mr and Mrs C and put this 
back onto LV. LV said it took reasonable steps to identify and mitigate risks of non-
disclosure.
As a non-advised policy sale, there was a responsibility on Mr and Mrs C to read the 
information provided by LV at the time they purchased the policy, this includes the 
additional information made available to them.
Mr and Mrs C also responded to my provisional decision. They said in summary:
There was a delay in receiving the information requested from LV about the policy 
voidance.
They called LV soon after moving into the property (around three weeks after) to 
change the cover from buildings only to buildings and contents. This conversation 
included the structural declaration and a discussion about the double garage and 
outbuilding which they say LV didnt wish to know. 
They met and spoke to their surveyor to clarify whether the movement mentioned in 
the pre purchase survey was subsidence and was reassured that it wasnt. This was 
the same position at the time of renewal. They mentioned they needed to know about 
subsidence as their parents house had suffered with subsidence, so they were 
aware of how big an issue it can be and they wouldnt have bought their property if it 
was suffering from subsidence.Whilst the report from August 2021 wasnt available at the time of the qualifying 
statement, it does confirm no subsidence was seen to make a report on.
They are generally unaware of CIDRA but feel they complied with the onus to make 
best efforts to take reasonable care. They believe they took reasonable care to 
understand that the property purchased was sound and that they provided 
appropriate information to the insurer. 
There were multiple challenges when contacting LV by telephone and e-mail about 
policy voidance.
Using CIDRA industry interpretation, the insurance industry treats careless in the 
same manner as it appears to treat a deliberate or reckless act. This appears to be 
discrimination.
LV referred to the event as a careless mistake which can cause an issue with 
obtaining replacement insurance and is treated in the same way as fraud.
The complaint process communication was non-existent.
They can evidence LV maintain cover on properties with existing subsidence repair 
work.
They would like to know what the impact is if I direct LV to reinstate the policy and 
reconsider the claim. Can LV use alternative reasons (CIDRA or non-CIDRA) to 
avoid their presumed liability? Will they need to refund payments LV has made under 
the terms of schedule 1 para 5. Can Mr and Mrs C come back to the ombudsman for 
support in a timely manner if appropriate?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made several comments, however Ill only focus on those that I feel are 
relevant to the crux of this complaint. 
LV has particularly focused on common language and that Mr and Mrs C ought to have 
known from their pre-purchase report that the cracks identified could be signs of subsidence 
and therefore they shouldve answered yes to the question Has the house ever had or ever 
shown any signs of subsidence, landslip or heave? it says if they were in doubt they 
shouldve contacted it. 
I set out in my provisional decision that the relevant law for this situation is CIDRA. It 
requires Mr and Mrs C to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. That 
includes a duty to answer questions to the best of their knowledge, based on what they 
ought reasonably to have known at that point in time. They are not required to volunteer 
information thats not asked about or to anticipate what an insurer may wish to know  they 
must simply answer the questions put to them with reasonable care.
The pre-purchase report doesnt diagnose the problem as subsidence or mention the word 
subsidence at all and as I said in my provisional decision, cracks and distortion in a 
property does not necessarily mean theyve been caused by subsidence. Overall, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs C took reasonable care when answering the question and I remain 
satisfied its fair to instruct LV to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim. And remove 
any voidance markers on internal or external databases.
I can see Mr and Mrs Cs depth of feeling about their complaint and Ive fully considered their 
comments. I had already considered Mr and Mrs Cs points regarding the customer service element of their complaint and theyve not provided me anymore information in addition to 
what I had already considered in the provisional decision. So, these comments havent 
changed my mind and I still think its fair for LV to pay £75 compensation. 
Id like to explain that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for the 
regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed its customer in any way. Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make 
the business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to 
punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in 
the future. That is the role of the regulator.
As Ive found it was unfair for LV to void the policy  and will direct it to reinstate the policy  
I dont think it describing the way Mr and Mrs C answered the question as careless has any 
impact.
Mr and Mrs C have asked the following questions:
Can LV use alternative reasons (CIDRA or non-CIDRA) to avoid their presumed 
liability? LV are entitled to consider the relevant laws and policy terms however Id 
expect them to do that in a fair and reasonable manner.
Will they need to refund payments LV has made under the terms of schedule 1 para 
5? LV is entitled to request the refunded premiums when reinstating the policy if it 
wishes.
Can they come back to the ombudsman for support in a timely manner if 
appropriate? This is a final decision on this complaint so we cant look at the same 
issues again and we are not here to advise or assist consumers with their ongoing 
claim. However, if Mr and Mrs C find they have reason to make a further complaint 
they would in the first instance need to raise a new complaint with LV under its 
complaint process. 
Taking everything into account Im still upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Cs policy
Reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Remove any voidance markers on internal or external databases
Pay £75 compensation if it hasnt already been paid.
My final decision
For the reasons give above I uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman