DRN-3322381
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Retirement Direct Limited (RDL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, take the maximum 
available tax free cash and purchase an annuity. He says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M approached RDL around April 2010 after seeing adverts about unlocking his pension 
as he wanted to see what his options were.
Mr M outlined that he had three different pensions that he was interested in getting advice 
on. One personal pension, a section 32 buyout plan and an occupational pension, the DB 
scheme, that he had accrued working for an employer between 1999 and 2006. He gave 
RDL authorisation to gather information in relation to all of them.
RDL contacted the three pension schemes for information and looked into Mr Ms state 
pension entitlement. The section 32 plan was scheduled to provide a guaranteed minimum 
pension of over £7,000 per year at the scheduled retirement age. The provider also 
explained that the cost of securing the GMP was greater than the transfer value and so a 
transfer was not currently permitted. The personal pension was valued at just over £11,000. 
There was no guaranteed payment included within this pension. The DB scheme had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £60,841.29. It had a preserved pension amount (a 
guaranteed benefit it would provide) of £3,273.80 per year as of 2006, when Mr M left the 
scheme. This was scheduled to increase annually in line with the retail price index (capped 
at 5%) until Mr M reached age 65  so at retirement would pay more than this amount. The 
benefit amount would also continue to increase after retirement. 
Over the course of a couple of phone calls, several weeks apart, RDL also completed a fact-
find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. It noted he was 56 at 
the time. He had been unemployed for several months but had recently begun a new job. He 
had credit card debts of approximately £1,900, £1,200 of which were accrued by his 
daughter who was attending university. Mr M said his daughter was meeting the repayments 
in respect of this portion of the balance.
Mr M was legally married but had been separated for approximately 16 years. He owned a 
property with his former partner but wasnt living there and was instead living with one of his 
sons. The property he owned had a mortgage on it and Mr M was paying 50% of the monthly 
payments  roughly £200. The mortgage was due to finish before his scheduled retirement, 
at age 65. And the tentative plan was that, after his youngest son left home  which he 
thought would likely be about a year before his scheduled retirement  the property would be 
sold, and the proceeds split. Hed then use this to buy a small property of his own if 
necessary.
RDL recorded that Mr M was likely to require an income of approximately £1,300 per month 
in retirement  although noted this couldve ended up lower, if he purchased a property as 
suggested. It estimated, based on the value of his current retirement provisions, hed 
currently fall short of that amount by £120 per month. 
Mr Ms main objective was listed as releasing tax free cash (TFC) to purchase a newer car. 
This was mentioned in both of the fact-finding calls. In the latter of the two fact finding calls 
Mr M also said hed like to try, if possible, to provide some financial support to his daughter 
who was attending university. 
On 16 August 2010, RDL sent Mr M a summary of what it had analysed so far, which it said 
would be the basis of a discussion scheduled several days later. This also included a section 
called Summary  Our Advice which explained;
Our analysis suggests that at age 65 you may not achieve the level of retirement income 
you require. You should therefore be maintaining and attempting to increase your retirement 
provision in order to provide the required level of income when you retire. Alternatively you 
need to re-consider your objectives in retirement and how you would cope on a reduced 
income.

If you were to take your pension(s) early, your income will probably be considerably less that 
you could expect if you waited until your retirement date and you will have less to live on 
when you retire. You would therefore be reducing an already insufficient income in 
retirement.
This document was discussed with Mr M a few days later. RDL explained it had asked his 
DB scheme for confirmation of whether he was able to take retirement benefits early under 
that scheme, as that could be the best way to meet his objectives. But it hadnt received a 
response. So, it was agreed that itd get back in touch once that response was received.
The DB scheme then confirmed that there was not, at that time, the option of taking 
retirement benefits earlier than scheduled.
RDL then had a further conversation with Mr M in September 2010 where it says he 
indicated he was still keen to proceed with the transfer. And that another reason for 
potentially wanting to buy a newer car was that his youngest son was going to begin driving 
lessons, so hed like to have him added to the insurance to assist with this. RDL also asked 
Mr M what hed prefer to do with the residual balance after taking TFC if a transfer went 
ahead. Mr M didnt express a preference initially. RDL suggested he could take an 
immediate income and talked about roughly what the level would be depending on if Mr M 
chose an increasing or level income. Mr M indicated hed be interested in the higher income 
a fixed annuity would provide. After he said this there was no further discussion about other 
alternative options for the residual fund
Three days after this call a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report was completed. 
RDL then sent Mr M a summary of its recommendation on 16 November 2010. It 
recommended he take no action with his personal pension and section 32 plan. But it 
recommended he transfer his DB scheme benefits, take the maximum available TFC 
(£15,210) and use the remaining fund, after advice fees were paid, to purchase an annuity. 
The annuity recommended paid £2,160.12 per annum. This was a level annuity, so the 
benefits would not increase, and it included a five-year guarantee and would provide a 50% 
spouses pension. The letter explaining the recommendation said the reasons for it were that 
it allowed Mr M to take TFC and meet his objectives of raising funds to buy a newer car and assist his children  particularly his daughter. 
The transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation made.
Mr M complained in January 2021. In summary his representatives said that the advice was 
unsuitable and was not in his best interests. They said the things the TFC was used for were 
not essential and it hadnt been made clear to Mr M the value of what he was giving up or 
why RDL believed it was appropriate to do so. Mr M felt RDL shouldve strongly advised him 
to remain in his DB scheme. 
RDL didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr M had been made aware, and had clearly 
understood, that he was giving up a higher guaranteed income, the risks associated, the 
trade off of prioritising TFC and the implications, including that hed receive a lower income. 
And it felt the transfer was suitable as it had allowed Mr M to meet his objectives.
The complaint was then referred to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint and thought that it should be upheld and that RDL should pay compensation and 
£250 for the distress caused. He didnt think the advice was suitable or in Mr Ms best 
interests. He felt Mr M didnt have a need for the regular income recommended, didnt have 
a genuine need for the TFC  rather this was just something hed have liked  and had little 
capacity for loss or appetite for risk. He also commented that making Mr M aware of the risks 
involved wasnt the same as giving suitable advice.
RDL strongly disagreed with the Investigators opinion. In summary it said that Mr M had 
clearly indicated that meeting his objectives in 2010 through the release of TFC was very 
important to him and he didnt have another way to do that. It also believed hed 
demonstrated and implied a need for a stable additional income in all of his contact with 
RDL. And it remained of the view that the advice was suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He felt, after looking at 
everything again, the objectives Mr M had were not genuine needs. Indeed, he felt Mr M had 
indicated as much. So, he didnt agree that these warranted RDL advising him to transfer his 
pension. And he remained of the opinion Mr M had no need for an immediate income either.
RDL asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. As a result, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties, and in particular RDL, have provided a significant amount of information. And 
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I 
dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent this isnt meant as a discourtesy or 
because I havent thought about it. Rather it is because my decision will address what I 
consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. Mr Ms DB scheme provided a guaranteed annual pension. The preserved pension was 
£3,273.80 per year, as of the date he left the scheme in 2006. This amount was subject to 
revaluation and would increase at a rate equivalent to the retail price index (capped at 5%) 
for every year between Mr M leaving the scheme and reaching age 65. The TVAS report 
projected that this meant the income Mr M would receive if he remained in the scheme until 
age 65 was likely to be approximately £4,445 per year. This figure would also continue to be 
revalued to account for inflation after the pension benefits began being drawn. The DB 
scheme also included a spouses pension of 66.67% payable in the event Mr M pre-
deceased his wife. If Mr M had died prior to retirement itd also pay a lump sum death benefit 
of £11,159.02. And I understand that Mr M would also have had the option of releasing TFC 
from the ceding scheme at age 65 - which RDL says wouldve been a similar sum to that he 
obtained under the arrangement it recommended.
RDL recommended that Mr M use the transfer value of the DB scheme benefits, the CETV, 
to release TFC and then purchase an annuity. Mr M took £15,210 TFC. The recommended 
annuity then provided a guaranteed level income for the rest of Mr Ms life (£2,160.12 per 
annum), which didnt increase to account for inflation. The annuity included a 50% spouses 
pension. 
Essentially RDL recommended that Mr M exchange a guaranteed, escalating pension for a 
policy paying a fixed, lower, annual income for the rest of his life and providing reduced 
death benefits, in order to access TFC and a regular income immediately, rather than at his 
scheduled retirement date. Hed receive an income for approximately nine years from the 
recommended policy that he wouldnt have under his existing scheme. But when he reached 
scheme retirement age of his existing policy, the income he was receiving wouldnt change 
and he would be receiving significantly less than he wouldve by staying put. What I must 
decide is whether the advice to do this, by transferring his DB scheme pension, was suitable 
and in Mr Ms best interests.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, RDL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests
RDL recorded information about Mr Ms likely income needs in retirement. It concluded that, 
if he didnt transfer, his income would fall short of what he needed once he retired. And in the 
letter it sent him on 16 August 2010, RDL said that by transferring Mr M would be reducing 
an already insufficient retirement income and he should in fact be maintaining and looking to 
increase his retirement provisions. The transfer did mean Mr M received an income from the 
annuity straight away. So, between that date and his scheduled retirement date under the 
existing scheme, hed receive an income he wouldnt otherwise have done. But I dont think 
this justifies the impact on Mr Ms pension income from the scheme retirement date, 
particularly as he was working at the point of the advice, in receipt of an income and was 
clear he had no plans to cease working for a number of years.
The primary purpose of a pension is to provide income in retirement and meet the needs of 
the policyholder. Mr M was already not in a position where his retirement income needs were 
going to be met and this transfer made the position worse. So, for this reason alone it 
doesnt appear to have been in Mr Ms best interests to transfer.
As Ive said, the letter RDL sent in August 2010 did explain this  indicating that the transfer 
perhaps wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. But RDL failed to go as far as saying that definitively 
or provide detailed reasons why or make a recommendation for or against transferring at 
that time.  RDL has said that the figures recorded for the income Mr M would need in retirement were a 
worst case scenario and it was possible his needs wouldnt be this much. And his other 
retirement provisions, particularly his section 32 plan and state pension, went a long way to 
meeting his needs and would potentially provide all that he needed if he didnt require as 
large an income. So, in essence, he could afford to transfer as his position wasnt being 
worsened significantly. 
But while it has explained that now, neither the letter sent in August 2010 or the suitability 
report sent in November 2010 explained why RDL thought worsening Mr Ms retirement 
provisions were appropriate or in his best interests, beyond that it allowed him to access 
TFC. So, I dont think Mr M was really in a position to make an informed decision as RDL 
hadnt really provided him with advice.
This is also true in the calls that weve been provided access too. Mr M was asked on a 
number of different occasions whether the things he said hed look at using TFC for were still 
important and if he still wanted to access money from his DB scheme and go ahead with the 
transfer. But RDL didnt advise him either way or give its opinion during the call as to 
whether this was right for him  the service it was required to provide.
RDL has said that Mr M understood the risks involved and had made a decision that 
accessing funds via the pension, at the time of the advice, was more important to him than 
the longer term implications. But being told the risks is not the same as being given 
appropriate advice. RDLs role wasnt simply to facilitate something that Mr M mightve 
thought he wanted or needed. It was to carry out a robust assessment of his circumstances 
and provide, suitable financial advice, which was in his best interests. And I dont think it did 
so. I accept that it provided Mr M with a significant amount of information. But it effectively 
left him to determine what he thought was best before recommending a corresponding 
strategy.
And ultimately I dont think transferring was suitable in Mr Ms case. As Ive already 
established, he wouldve been left with reduced retirement benefits by transferring. And the 
recommended policy also had lesser death benefits. The reason that has been relied on by 
RDL for recommending the transfer is that Mr M had an immediate requirement for TFC and 
that he was willing to accept the loss of retirement benefits to achieve this. But I dont think 
Mr M had a genuine need for TFC.
When Mr M first spoke to RDL he said he didnt have a plan in mind and was just looking at 
what options were available to him. Which I think indicates clearly that he didnt have a 
predetermined course of action or set need when first contacting RDL. 
It is true that later in the same call Mr M said he was potentially interested in purchasing a 
newer car as his was getting quite old and he was concerned about potentially escalating 
repair bills. RDL recorded that this was essential. And this has formed the basis of its advice. 
But Im satisfied that while Mr M was interested in using TFC for this purpose, it wasnt 
essential that this objective be achieved. 
This objective was referred back to in all of the later calls and correspondence. But for the 
large part it was RDL that referenced and brought up this objective, asking if it was still 
something Mr M was interested in. This kept it at the forefront of Mr Ms thinking. But that 
isnt the same as him saying and constantly referencing that he needed this to be achieved. 
Indeed, during one of the discussions with RDL he said he was getting his existing car 
MOTd and that maybe he was kidding himself slightly that he needed a new car simply 
because he might be able to access TFC. I think this shows that Mr M understood that this 
objective perhaps wasnt essential. And Im satisfied it wasnt. I think it was simply a potential 
use for TFC hed thought of, if releasing TFC from his pension was in his best interests. Mr M did also mention, during the second discussion he had with RDL, he was hoping to 
provide some financial support to his daughter who was at university. But again, from what 
Ive seen Im satisfied this was simply something that Mr M wouldve liked to do if he had 
money available. It wasnt something that he needed to do. And the same applies to helping 
one of his sons with driving lessons.
So, taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr M had a genuine need to access TFC. And 
given this and the reduction in his retirement benefits that the transfer would bring about, I 
dont therefore think that transferring was in his best interests. And I think RDL shouldve 
advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
Our investigator also said they didnt think Mr M had a need for an immediate income so 
questioned the advice to take an annuity. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that 
a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I dont really need to 
consider the suitability of the recommendation about how to use the residual funds after TFC 
was taken. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against RDL's 
advice, if it had explained the transfer wasnt in his best interests. But Im not persuaded that 
Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against RDLs advice. 
The available information seems to be very clear that both parties acknowledged Mr M 
wasnt a particularly experienced investor. And while he may have had an intended use for 
TFC, as Ive said, I think he understood that this was not necessarily essential. While he was 
provided a lot of information, I dont think he was provided particularly reasoned or clear 
advice. And if hed been provided clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, rather than RDL leaving it largely to him to 
decide a course of action and then facilitating that, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that his desire for TFC was so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
In light of the above, I think RDL should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our investigator also recommended that RDL pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused. I dont 
doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern as a result of the disruption to his 
retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable 
advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for RDLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
RDL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Im satisfied Mr M wouldnt have taken benefits under the DB scheme, until the 
normal scheme retirement age. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement 
age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
RDL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Id usually recommend that this be paid into 
Mr Ms pension plan. But I understand, as Mr M has taken an annuity, that further 
contributions arent possible. So, in the circumstances, it appears appropriate that the 
payment be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date RDL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes RDL to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, RDL should pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused by the disruption to Mr Ms 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Retirement Direct 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Retirement Direct Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Retirement Direct Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Retirement Direct Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Retirement Direct 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman