DRN-3847535
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr A says he has no knowledge of any fraudulent use of his account in January 2021. And 
that he found out about the marker when he wanted to apply for a financial product. He says 
that a marker that had been added by a different business for similar reasons had been 
removed.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received a report that money paid into    
Mr As account had been obtained fraudulently and had been paid out quickly. So, it said it 
had a basis to add the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She explained that there 
was a high bar to add the marker. Shed discussed what happened with Mr A and he said he 
thought that software may have been added to his phone to allow remote access. He no 
longer had this phone and all the data had been wiped. There were several IP addresses 
associated with use of the account for locations he says that werent close to him. And he 
said hed only owned an Android device and not an iPhone device that had been linked to 
the account too. Hed not lost his Monzo card, and this remained in an envelope unused. 
Hed opened the account to transfer funds to his family and hed instead thought about 
trading in cryptocurrency which hed never done. And that because hed been on relevant 
platforms and social media his phone may have been compromised. Mr A said he had the 
app but didnt receive any notifications.
Our adjudicator said that if such a remote access had been placed on his phone hed have 
likely reported this and kept it as evidence. Hed not reported that Apple Pay had been 
activated with the card on a different device and as the card details were kept safe she 
couldnt see how these had been compromised. All devices and access to the account had 
been verified. And although Mr A said hed not had an online chat on the app with Monzo 
Bank on 27 January 2021 again that would have required identification for verification. So, 
she thought it more likely than not that he was complicit in what happened. Under the terms 
and conditions of the account Monzo Bank had grounds to close it based on what had 
happened.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that he was immensely concerned about this allegation against 
him. He denied any involvement and said he had no knowledge or participation in what 
happened. He maintained that there was clear evidence of the involvement of hackers and 
another financial business had accepted what he said and removed a marker. 
Mr A said that there were several IP addresses used not connected with his service provider. 
And that other devices had accessed the account. He again said he had never owned an 
iPhone. The name noted for transactions on the account wasnt related to him. And Apple 
Pay had been activated on someone elses iPhone. He denied having the chat with Monzo 
Bank. It had never contacted him, and he didnt think it had shown thered been deliberate 
dishonesty. Hed been discussing what he thought were plausible explanations with the 
adjudicator. He said any inconsistencies in what he said had been down to the way that 
discussion had been handled and hed not been told that this would be used as part of the 
assessment. Mr A said hed never lost his card and how it was or wasnt compromised was 
only presumption. There were numerous reported instances of hackers compromising 
mobiles generally. He stressed the impact of the marker on him and his family and that this 
was disproportionate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. Im 
only looking here at what Monzo Bank did here and not any other financial business. In any 
event I dont have further information about the other CIFAS marker being removed if Mr A 
wanted to rely on that.
Ive listened to a recording of the call he had with our adjudicator. I appreciate Mr A is 
unhappy about this, but I cant see that she otherwise then explained that the purpose of 
the call was to get information and to give Mr A an opportunity to explain and provide his 
understanding of what happened. She said she didnt want anything more at that time. And 
Ive also considered his comments following that and her view and hes had the opportunity 
to respond with any evidence or comments he wanted and had asked for extra time to do 
so before the decision came to me.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I know from what Mr A says hes seen records regarding the devices and IP addresses 
relating to access to the account. I think the following points are relevant to an assessment 
of what happened:- Monzo Bank says that the account was opened on 17 January 2021. Mr A accepts he 
opened the account with his details and his device.
- He said that he had opened it to send money to family, but this didnt work out. He said 
he was trying to get into crypto currency and to link my Monzo account to a crypto 
exchange and had been interested in whitelisting  which it seems is expressing an 
interest in purchase before a coin comes on the market. He says he was activated with 
[a named business] and a couple of others.
- Mr A received a card for the account that he kept in the envelope and never used.
- The records show that of the devices registered there was only one Android device and 
that had been involved with the account since 17 January 2021. That device is recorded 
as having access to the app during the period and including on 27 January 2021.
- Another device was recorded as being associated with the account from the date it was 
opened and a third from 19 January 2021.
- Some payments out of the account appeared to be related to cryptocurrency and 
included to [the business Mr A said he had activated].
- Mr A has no direct evidence to support his phone was taken over and on his account 
other devices were needed to be registered to carry out this fraud. He said when talking 
to our adjudicator that it was his honest belief that this had happened.
- All device use and the attempted registration for Apple Pay required verification with his 
information.
- A fraudster involved risked detection especially with a newly opened account that was 
likely to be used by the genuine accountholder. And the money that was reported as 
fraudulently obtained credited the account on 26 January 2021. Mr A says he doesnt 
recognise this or any other payments.
- Mr A says he didnt have the online chat with Monzo Bank on 27 January 2021. That 
was about why the account had been closed and asking if it could be reinstated. He 
didnt appear to pursue why the account had been closed or attempt to use it again and 
was in contact with Monzo Bank in March 2022 for a data subject access request.
- Monzo Bank thought it did as a result have some contact with Mr A when the account 
had been closed although he wasnt asked about activity on the account. Hes had the 
opportunity to provide that now. 
I think that there are two broad possibilities here. Either as Mr A says a third party was able 
to somehow access his data just it seems at the time hed decided to open a new account 
and was actively interested in cryptocurrency. And that he had no reason to use that 
account or access it until he found out about the marker. The other is that he was involved 
with what happened although this may have been through allowing someone to use his 
details and possibly relating to his interest in cryptocurrency trading. In the latter case he 
may not have known exactly what had been involved but as I set out above would still be 
responsible for what happened on the account. And thats especially as his explanation isnt 
that he had been somehow tricked into allowing what happened or providing his details. 
The fact that there were different devices and IP addresses involved isnt inconsistent with 
either explanation.
While I note what Mr A says and his testimony he doesnt have anything to support his 
phone actually being hacked even if that were technically possible. And for his security 
information and card details which he says he kept safe and didnt disclose to be 
compromised and so connected with Apple Pay. I think the close link in time to him 
genuinely opening an account and what happened on the account indicates he was most 
likely involved. And that his device was accessing the account through the period wouldnt 
seem to have been necessary for an unknown third party who had been able to 
compromise his details and register another device. Taking all that into account and the 
nature of the online chat on 27 January 2021 I can see why Monzo Bank believed that this was with the genuine Mr A. And if so would help explain why he didnt seem to want to use 
the account again after it had been closed and hadnt asked why after that.
Having balanced all the information I think its most likely that he was complicit in what 
happened, and which could have involved him allowing someone else to use the account.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Monzo Bank needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr A was involved in the use of fraudulently 
obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
In light of these findings, I think it had grounds to close the account under the terms and 
conditions. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed given what hes said about the impact of 
the marker or him. But Im afraid I dont have a basis to require Monzo Bank to do anything 
further. If Mr A doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to 
any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman