DRN-3342462
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit was irresponsible 
in lending to her.
What happened
In 2017 AvantCredit provided Mrs R with a loan of £6,600 repayable over 36 months with a 
monthly repayment of £251.15. The loan has since been repaid.
Mrs R complained that the loan was unaffordable. AvantCredit looked into her complaint. It 
said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loan was affordable. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to us. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didnt think 
AvantCredit had carried out proper checks. 
As AvantCredit didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Rs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs R would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs R wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs R undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
AvantCredit asked for information about Mrs Rs income and expenses. Mrs R said her net 
monthly income was £2,886 and her expenses came to £1,700. AvantCredit obtained a 
credit report. That revealed that Mrs R had 17 active credit accounts. She had a very high 
level of indebtedness on credit cards, of over £16,868. She also owed £15,062 on 
unsecured loans. She was paying over half her net monthly income on her credit 
commitments (excluding her mortgage). 
In my opinion the credit search ought to have raised concerns to AvantCredit. The fact that 
she was already committed to spending so much of her monthly income on credit 
repayments could have been seen as an indication that Mrs R was having problems 
managing her finances. I think overall based on what it had initially gathered, it should have 
looked to carry out a complete review of Mrs Rs finances to assure itself that she could 
repay the loan in a sustainable way, especially as the loan term was for 36 months.
Mrs R has provided us with some bank statements for the period just before taking out this 
loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that AvantCredit should necessarily 
have done. But I think looking at these might have given a good indication of Mrs Rs 
financial situation around the time she applied for this loan. 
They show that for the month of May 2017 Mrs R spent just under half her net income on 
gambling transactions. If AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks, I think it is more 
likely than not that it would have uncovered this and then not lent to Mrs R. So Im not 
persuaded that AvantCredit acted fairly in lending to Mrs R as it was likely that giving her 
more credit would simply make her situation worse.The fact that Mrs R repaid the loan doesnt mean that she was able to do so sustainably or 
that this is a reason for me not to uphold her complaint that the loan was unaffordable.
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
As I have concluded AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan, it should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mrs Rs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and require AvantCredit Limited to 
put things right for Mrs R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman