DRN-3407957
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Financial 
Services) reported missed payments on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs W had a catalogue shopping account with Argos. In August 2015 Mrs W entered a debt 
management plan with a debt charity. Her account fell into arrears in October of that year, 
because she was making less than the contractual minimum payments. But she made all of 
her payments under the plan on time, and the payments were passed on to her creditors, 
including Argos. However, between December 2018 and March 2020, her Argos account 
was recorded on her credit file as having missed payments each month. Mrs W says that 
this was inaccurate, and that her credit score had been adversely affected as a result. (She 
cleared her account balance in 2021.)
Mrs W complained to Argos, but her complaint was not upheld. Argos told her that at first it 
had reported her account to the credit reference agencies as in arrears, with payments being 
made under an arrangement. Then in November 2018 Argos had instructed a debt collection 
company to manage Mrs Ws account on Argoss behalf. From the following month, this had 
changed the way her account had been reported, from a payment arrangement to a debt 
management plan (even though she had already been on a debt management plan with the 
charity).
Mrs W then brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator thought that Argos had 
reported her account accurately. Although Mrs W had been making the full payments that 
were due under the arrangement to pay and the debt management plan, she hadnt been 
making her full contractual payments. The credit file reflected that. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint, but he recommended that Mrs W add a notice of correction to her credit file to 
explain the context to anyone who looked at it.
Mrs W didnt accept that opinion. She asked why the period from 2018 had been treated 
differently to the period before. She said that her other creditors had not reported missed 
payments. She asked why Argos had not asked the debt charity to increase her payments to 
the contractual minimum amounts. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the reason for making payments via a debt charity was because Mrs W couldnt afford 
to make the contractual minimum payments (at least at first), Argos would not have expected 
her to pay more than the debt charity had offered. I dont think it is Argoss fault that Mrs W 
did not increase her monthly payments once she could afford to. It was entitled to accept the 
amount that was offered by the debt charity, without trying to negotiate a higher amount. So 
it was not unreasonable or inaccurate for it to continue to report arrears on the account.
As Ive said above, Mrs Ws account was in arrears from 2015. So although she made all the 
payments she was supposed to make under the arrangement to pay and the debt 
management plan, she was still not making the full contractual payments she was supposed 
to be making. At first this was reported as a payment arrangement, but when a third party 
took over managing Mrs Ws account for Argos, the way the account was reported was 
changed to a debt management plan, and this showed up as missed payments (meaning 
missed contractual payments, not missed payments under the plan). (This may explain why 
Mrs Ws other creditors reported the account differently, if they didnt instruct third parties to 
manage their accounts for them.)
Mrs W has blamed Argos for not being able to get good rates when applying for credit. But 
since she owed over £20,000 to five or six creditors, and was in a debt management plan, 
I think this was always going to be the case. I dont think the precise way in which her Argos 
account was reported would have made much of a difference to that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman