DRN-2340668
The complaint
Miss B complains that National Westminster Bank plc didnt allow her to have a payment 
arrangement to clear a debt outstanding on a joint overdraft account and then entered a 
default against her with credit reference agencies.
Mr B, the joint account holder, has consented to our service investigating Miss Bs complaint.
What happened
Miss B and Mr B had a joint current account with NatWest. There was an agreed overdraft 
on the account. Miss B says she split up with the joint account holder in 2018 and didnt 
have access to the account. She approached NatWest in 2019 and asked it to remove her 
name from the account. It refused to do this because the account was overdrawn.
Miss B says she contacted NatWest in July 2019 to try to get some information about the 
state of the account. She was told the joint account holder had registered an Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). NatWest told her she would have to repay the outstanding 
debt. Miss B says she was willing to do this, but she didnt have the means to repay it all at 
once and she wanted NatWest to agree a repayment plan with her.
She says she got a letter from NatWest in October 2019 which informed her that the account 
had been passed to a debt collection agency. The letter also said she hadnt come to a 
suitable arrangement with NatWest. She says she was never given the opportunity to come 
to an arrangement with NatWest and she now finds herself in a very difficult situation. A 
default has been registered against her name and she hasnt been able to re-mortgage as a 
result. She complained to NatWest.
NatWest investigated her complaint. It said it had reviewed its records and there was no 
evidence that Miss B had tried to set up a repayment plan. It also said shed told it on 15 July 
2019 that she wouldnt be agreeing to any repayment plan. NatWest also said she was 
jointly and severally liable for the overdraft. So, when the joint account holder entered an IVA 
it was able to pursue her for repayment of the outstanding debt.
It said it had sent her letters advising her to contact it, but she hadnt done that. So, it had 
referred the debt to its debt collection agents and had entered the default with credit 
reference agencies.
NatWest acknowledged that it hadnt provided her with correct information when shed 
contacted it. But it said it had refunded interest and charges and applied a credit of £100 to 
the account. It said it had also sent her a cheque for £100 by way of compensation. It said 
she could agree a repayment plan with the debt collection agency.
Miss B wasnt satisfied with this response and so she complained to our service. Our
investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint. She said she was satisfied NatWest had sent 
Miss B letters to tell her about the outstanding debt on the account. She also said Miss B 
was aware that the account was joint and there was an agreed overdraft on it. NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong when it had pursued her for repayment and registered the 
default.
She agreed that NatWest had given Miss B incorrect information, but it had agreed to refund 
certain fees and interest and it had offered Miss B compensation. So, our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Miss B didnt agree. She said our investigator hadnt considered the emotional element of 
the complaint. And she hadnt taken into account the difficult circumstances Miss B found 
herself in as a result of NatWests actions.
Our investigator considered what Miss B said but she didnt change her view.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that I wont be considering Miss Bs complaint about 
NatWests decision not to remove her from the joint account. That matter has been 
dealt with separately.
Miss B was a party to the joint account. Ive looked at the Add a new party to an 
Account form which Miss B signed on 1 December 2016. This meant that the 
account which was formerly in the sole name of Mr B was changed into a joint 
account. At that time there was an overdraft of £1,000 on the account.
I can see on the form Miss B signed, she agreed that requests to increase the 
overdraft could be made by either her or Mr B. And if this happened there was no 
need to send any pre-contract information to the other party. She also agreed that 
statements of account didnt need to be sent to both parties to the account.
Once she became a party to the account she became jointly, as well as separately, 
responsible for repayment of the overdraft on the account. This is so even though 
she says she was separated from Mr B and didnt have access to the account for 
over a year. I think she knew this and that was why she approached NatWest and 
asked it to remove her from the account.
NatWest says it refused that request because of the outstanding overdraft on the 
account. And, because she is jointly and separately liable for the overdraft, it is the 
case that NatWest can ask her to repay the whole of the overdraft.
NatWest became aware of Mr Bs IVA in or around June 2019. So, at that stage it 
appears it decided to pursue Miss B to repay the debt. I can see that it sent her 
letters in June and July. It also sent her text messages. Those letters and text 
messages made it clear that there was an outstanding debt and she needed to 
contact NatWest to discuss repayments. Miss B did contact NatWest on 15 July.
Ive listened carefully to the telephone call of 15 July. I can see that some of the 
information she was receiving was new information. So, for example she was told 
that Mr B had registered an insolvency. He had told her he had made a debt management plan. NatWest did make it clear during the call however that Miss B 
would be held liable for the debt.
It also told her that if the debt wasnt repaid a default would be entered.
Miss B told NatWest twice during the call that she wouldnt be agreeing a repayment 
plan with it. She thought it wasnt fair that she should have to repay this debt given 
her circumstances. Im sure this was a very difficult time for Miss B. Shed been left 
with a debt and she had significant other personal and financial responsibilities to 
deal with. So, I can understand why her initial reaction was to say that she couldnt 
agree to a repayment plan.
But she wouldve had time to reflect on this after the call. And, shortly after the call 
she was sent a further letter from NatWest dated 15 July. That letter makes it clear 
that the situation was at a serious stage, but NatWest could still help. The letter sets 
out that a termination notice could be issued, and a default could be registered with 
credit reference agencies if Miss B didnt take action to agree a way forward.
The letter urged Miss B to contact NatWest where its team would talk through the 
available options.
Miss B says she wanted to agree a repayment plan. But I dont see any evidence that 
she approached NatWest in response to its letter of 15 July or that she made any 
proposals regarding a repayment plan.
So, Ive thought about whether things wouldve been different if NatWest had done 
everything it shouldve done before it decided to register the default. And, Ive noted 
that it didnt send Miss B a default notice. It also didnt send her a termination notice 
 which was what it had told her it would do.
A default notice is usually sent when it looks unlikely that a customer will be able to 
afford to pay back what is owed. In this case I can see why NatWest might have 
reached that conclusion following the telephone call on 15 July. But that doesnt 
mean it shouldnt have sent a default notice or a termination notice.
NatWest has now accepted that it didnt send a default or a termination notice before 
it registered the default with credit reference agencies.
Its not clear what action Miss B wouldve taken if the default notice and the 
termination notices had been sent. But, in her complaint she says that NatWest didnt 
give her the opportunity to come to an arrangement with it. And, although I think she 
had been given an opportunity during the call on 15 July to come to an arrangement I 
cant be certain that she wouldnt have changed her mind if shed received the default 
and termination notices. Those letters are strongly worded and explain the 
consequences of not following them clearly. So, I think its likely that Miss B would 
have acted differently if she received such clear notices of NatWests intentions and 
the consequences of not following them.
NatWest wrote to Miss B again in October 2019. It told her the case would be passed 
to debt collection agents. But by that stage the default had already been registered.
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied that if the default and termination
notices had been sent to her, Miss B wouldve had a further opportunity to consider 
the position and she may have been able to reach an acceptable arrangement with 
NatWest before the default was registered.Putting things right
NatWest has already agreed to refund certain fees and interest thatd been applied to 
the account in the period from April to August 2019. In total it refunded £488.26 on 22 
July 2019 and made a further interest adjustment of £151.88 credited on 24 
September 2019. That interest adjustment appears to include a refund of interest 
charged in July and August 2019. I can see a further interest adjustment credited to 
the account on 29 October 2019 for £75.12 but its not clear what that relates to. No 
further interest or charges have been debited to the account since.
NatWest also credited the account with £100 on 22 July 2019. And, since that date 
any repayments Miss B has made have reduced the capital sum outstanding.
NatWest also offered to pay Miss B a further £100 by way of compensation for the 
incorrect information it provided to her about how she could make repayments. She 
has declined this offer.
NatWest has now said that its willing to remove the default. It says that provided 
Miss B pays the outstanding balance in full within the time period set out on the 
default notice, it will not issue a termination notice. If Miss B doesnt pay the 
outstanding balance in full NatWest says it will issue a termination notice and will 
proceed to register a default with credit reference agencies.
Miss B has indicated to our service that if a default notice is issued now, she will 
repay the outstanding balance in full within the time period on the default notice.
Because of what Miss B has said I intend to require NatWest to remove the default 
with credit reference agencies and issue Miss B with a default notice.
If Miss B doesnt repay the outstanding balance in full within the period set out in the 
default notice, then NatWest would be entitled to proceed to issue a termination 
notice and register a fresh default with credit reference agencies. Once a default is 
registered it would remain on her credit file for six years from the date of registration.
Ive also considered whether Miss B should be further compensated because of 
whats happened. It is the case that she is jointly and separately liable for the 
outstanding debt. And, NatWest was entitled to pursue her for recovery of the whole 
balance outstanding.
As mentioned above, NatWest has refunded interest and charges applied to the 
account since April 2019. I think thats fair and reasonable. Its also credited the 
account with £100 on 22 July 2019. I can see that it offered to pay Miss B a further 
£100 by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience. That was before it 
accepted it hadnt issued the default notice.
Miss B has experienced a prolonged period of distress and inconvenience whilst this
complaint has been investigated. And I can appreciate she wouldve been worried 
about her credit rating. She says she hasnt been able to re-mortgage as a result. But 
she hasnt provided any evidence to support that. And, it is also the case that the 
joint account was out of order for some time even before the default was registered.
So, having considered everything here, my provisional view is that, in addition to the 
£100 its already offered to pay her and which she declined NatWest should pay Miss 
B an additional £150 (being £250 in total) by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. For the avoidance of doubt this is in addition 
to the £100 that has already been credited to the joint account on 22 July 2019.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold this complaint about National 
Westminster Bank plc and I would intend to require it to take the following actions:
remove the default it has registered with credit reference agencies;
issue a default notice requiring Miss B to pay the current amount outstanding 
on the account but if Miss B doesnt pay this amount in full within the 
specified period set out in the default notice then National Westminster Bank 
plc can proceed to issue a termination notice and if payment is still not made 
by the date set out on the termination notice it may proceed to register a 
default at credit reference agencies; and
pay Miss B a total of £250 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
In response to my provisional decision NatWest said it had no further comments to make.
Miss B also responded to my provisional decision. She made several points. She said:
NatWest hadnt treated her fairly when it hadnt removed her name from the joint 
account. She provided a summary of information shed previously given to our 
service about this and asked for this to be taken into account.
Shed applied for credit recently and itd been declined.
She was concerned shed have to borrow to pay off the debt. Shed hoped NatWest 
wouldve agreed to a repayment plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision the complaint Miss B raised about NatWests decision 
not to remove her name from the joint account has been dealt with separately. So, I havent 
made any findings about that. But I did read all of the information Miss B provided to our 
service before issuing my provisional decision. And, as mentioned in my provisional 
decision, I took into account the forms shed signed when she agreed to be a party to the 
joint account. As a result, she was jointly and separately liable for the overdraft on the joint 
account.
In her response to my provisional decision, Miss B told us shed applied for credit recently 
and itd been declined. She says this is because of the default thats been registered. Miss B 
provided us with further information to support what shed said. She applied for a mortgage 
in June 2020. I can see she was issued with a decision in principle by the lender at that time. 
She says her application was declined. Miss B also provided us with a copy of her credit 
report.
Ive looked at Miss Bs credit report. Information recorded with credit reference agencies can 
impact on credit scores. Different lenders approach this in different ways and its up to each 
lender to decide how to use the information thats recorded when making a credit 
assessment for lending purposes. 
Ive also noted the credit report indicates Miss B was financially associated to Mr B and to 
another party at the time when she applied for credit. Lenders can use the associates 
information to help make decision. In these circumstances, Im not persuaded Miss Bs application for credit was declined only because of the default which NatWest had 
registered. So, I dont think itd be fair or reasonable to increase the amount of compensation 
Id provisionally decided should be awarded in this case.
Ive also considered what Miss B told us about having to borrow to clear the amount 
outstanding with NatWest.
As I said in my provisional decision, NatWest spoke to Miss B on 15 July 2019. At that time 
there was a discussion about entering a repayment plan but Miss B didnt want to do that. 
Ive said NatWest shouldve sent her a default notice before registering a default. But, its 
important to point out that even if it had sent the default notice at the relevant time, that 
doesnt mean it wouldve been obliged to agree to a repayment plan. 
I can understand why Miss B doesnt want to have to borrow to clear the amount 
outstanding. But NatWest has agreed to remove the default. I think thats fair and 
reasonable. If Miss B doesnt repay the debt in full within the timescales set out in the default 
notice, NatWest says it will register a fresh default. And, as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, that default would remain on Miss Bs credit file for a further six years from the date 
it is registered. So, although Miss B has concerns about having to pay off this debt in full, 
she will need to do that if she wants to prevent a fresh default from being registered.
So, having considered everything here, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision. Miss B has provided further details about a recent 
application for credit having been declined. Shes also raised concerns about having to 
borrow to clear the outstanding debt. But, as explained above, the information shes 
provided has not changed my view about what NatWest should do to resolve this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank plc. I 
now require it to take the following actions:
remove the default it has registered about Miss Bs account with credit 
reference agencies;
issue a default notice requiring Miss B to pay the current amount outstanding 
on the account. If Miss B doesnt pay this amount in full within the specified 
period set out in the default notice National Westminster Bank plc can 
proceed to issue a termination notice and if payment is still not made by the 
date set out on the termination notice it may proceed to register a default at 
credit reference agencies; and
pay Miss B a total of £250 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman