DRN-2762540
The complaint
Miss G and Mr H complain that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (XLC) declined 
their claim against their travel insurance policy. Refence to XLC includes reference to its 
agents.  
What happened
In November 2019, Miss G and Mr H bought a travel insurance policy from XLC. The 
policy start and end dates were 5 January 2020 and 4 July 2020 respectively, which 
were the same as the intended departure and return dates of their trip to South America. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a 
pandemic. On 15 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against travel to the country Miss G and Mr H were in. 
Miss G and Mr H say that they first became aware of the need to curtail their trip on      
16 March 2020. They say that they checked XLCs website and believed that they would 
be covered for Covid-19 related claims. Miss G and Mr H booked flights departing              
21 March 2020 and arrived back in the UK on 22 March 2020, the day before the UK 
government advised all UK tourists to return home. 
On 23 March 2020, Mr H made a claim against the policy in relation to his and Miss Gs  
additional travel costs. XLC declined the claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy in 
relation to epidemics. Miss G and Mr H didnt think that was fair and pursued their 
complaint.  
Miss G and Mr H want XLC to deal with their claim or provide a pro-rata refund of their 
premium. They say that their policy excludes cover for epidemics but Covid-19 was 
declared a pandemic, which isnt excluded in the policy. Miss G and Mr H say that if 
Covid-19 had remained an epidemic, they could have continued their trip in a different 
country or region but as it was a pandemic, they couldnt do that. They say that XLCs 
website was misleading as it implied that the epidemic exclusion only applies to 
epidemics known about at the time of the policy purchase, which wasnt the case here. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She first thought that XLC hadnt 
treated Miss G and Mr H fairly in seeking to rely on the exclusion relating to epidemics.     
XLC didnt agree. It said that WHOs definition of a pandemic includes an epidemic. The 
investigator considered the matter again and didnt think that XLC had treated Miss G 
and Mr H unfairly in declining their claim. She said that a pandemic follows on from an 
epidemic, and she was satisfied that Covid-19 was an epidemic before it was a 
pandemic. So, she didnt think that XLC had acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion. 
Miss G and Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. They said that if Covid-19 had 
remained an epidemic, they wouldnt have curtailed their trip. Miss G and Mr H say that 
whilst a pandemic will have started as an epidemic, they are not the same thing and 
dont affect the ability to travel in the same way. They say that when a disease is 
classified as a pandemic, it ceases to be an epidemic. 
Miss G and Mr H asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Miss G and Mr Hs policy 
provides cover for curtailment of a trip where the FCO, WHO or a similar body issues a 
travel warning advising against all travel or all but essential travel to a region or country and 
the warning was first given after the trip was booked. Its not in dispute that an insured event 
occurred here but XLC relied on the following exclusion in declining the claim:
General Exclusions
This section explains whats not covered under any part of this policy wording in addition to 
the specific exclusions shown under each benefit section.
Whats not covered under any part of your policy
We wont cover any loss, claim or expenses that directly or indirectly relate to or arise from 
the following, unless you have contacted us and we have confirmed in writing that you will 
be covered:
[]
11. Epidemics which have been placed under the direction of public authorities.
The cancellation provisions are as follows:
Your cancellation rights/Cooling-off period
You have up to 14 days from when we issue your Certificate of Insurance and policy 
wording to cancel your policy. This is called your cooling-off period.
Cancelling within the cooling-off period:
If you choose to cancel your policy within the cooling off period, we will refund your 
premium, provided that:
a.you havent travelled under your policy; and
b.you are not making a claim; and
c.you are not exercising any other right under the policy
[]
Cancelling outside the cooling-off period:
If you choose to cancel your policy outside the cooling-off period, no refund will be provided. 
If we agree to refund your premium, we may charge an amount for the cover provided (e.g. 
a proportion of the premium for the time on risk) and an administration fee. For all other 
cancellation requests, please contact us.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?The relevant rules and industry guidance say that XLC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Miss G and Mr Hs complaint because I dont think that XLC treated them 
unfairly. Ill explain why: 
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, it must show that it 
applies in the particular circumstances that led to the claim. I think that XLC has done 
that here.  
WHOs definition of an epidemic is as follows:
The occurrence in a community or region of cases of an illness, specific           
health-related behaviour, or other health-related events clearly in excess of normal 
expectancy. The community or region and the period in which the cases occur are 
specified precisely. The number of cases indicating the presence of an epidemic 
varies according to the agent, size, and type of population exposed, previous 
experience or lack of exposure to the disease, and time and place of occurrence.
WHOs definition of a pandemic is  an epidemic occurring worldwide, or over a 
very wide area, crossing international boundaries and usually affecting a large 
number of people.
The definition of a pandemic includes an epidemic. A pandemic develops out of an 
epidemic and is an epidemic thats spread more widely. I dont think that XLC is 
treating Miss G and Mr H unfairly in concluding that Covid-19 was an epidemic, even 
after it had been declared a pandemic. Thats because a pandemic includes an 
epidemic. 
Miss G and Mr H say that they were misled by the information on XLCs website, 
which they consulted before they curtailed their trip. Ive looked at the information to 
which Miss G and Mr H refer. It said that where the purchase of the policy was before 
certain dates and the FCO, WHO or similar body advises against all or all but 
essential travel, there  may be cover for non-refundable cancellation costs. I dont 
think that was helpful for Miss G and Mr H because the exclusion in their policy 
meant that they were not covered for curtailment costs in the circumstances that 
arose. But I dont think it changes the outcome here. Thats because Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that Miss G and Mr H would have done anything differently if the 
information on the website had told them that their claim would be declined. 
Miss G and Mr H say that all XLCs policies contain the exclusion relating to 
epidemics, so the information on its website was misleading. Ive seen no evidence 
about all XLCs policies and, in any event, Im dealing with Miss G and Mr Hs 
complaint and Im considering the terms and conditions of their policy. This service 
isnt the regulator and cant direct XLC generally about the information it provides. 
 
The terms and conditions of Miss G and Mr Hs policy say that theres no refund of 
premium where the cancellation is outside the cooling-off period. Miss G and Mr H 
pursued a claim and XLC is only obliged to consider a claim where the premium has 
been paid.   Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to depart from the policy 
terms and direct XLC to provide Miss G and Mr H with a pro rata refund of premium. 
In the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it would. Thats because, 
based on what Ive seen, Miss G and Mr H first asked for a refund of premium on 19 
July 2020, after their claim had been declined and after the end date of the policy had 
passed. 
I also bear in mind that this was a six month policy, designed to cover travel within a 
certain defined geographic region. Miss G and Mr H had started to travel within that 
region and had done so for around three months. Based on what theyve told our 
service, they left the UK in January 2020 and were due to return in July 2020. They 
ended their trip in March 2020 but had the benefit of cover during that time. So, the 
insurers risk had commenced, and they had the benefit of that cover. So that further 
persuades me that a pro-rata refund is not fair and reasonable on the facts of this 
particular case. Theres no basis on which I could fairly direct XLC to depart from the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss G and Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman