DRN-2593744
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined his property owners insurance 
claim for malicious damage to his tenanted property.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr D called Aviva to say that his tenant had left the insured property before 
the end of his tenancy agreement. Mr D said he wanted to make a claim under his policy for 
loss of rent. Aviva said that it could only consider a claim under the policy for loss of rent if it 
could be shown that the property had sustained insured damage. And it said the property 
would also need to be considered uninhabitable as a result. Mr D advised Aviva that the 
property was suffering from some general wear and tear but Aviva told him this sort of 
damage wasnt covered by his policy. 
A few days later Mr D complained to Aviva. Aviva discussed the claim with him again but 
said no insured event had occurred that was covered by the policy. Mr D said his broker had 
said he did have a valid claim. Aviva explained to Mr D what an insured event was and said 
that the tenant leaving without there being any damage to the property didnt amount to one. 
Mr D said to Aviva that hed had a builder come round who had said there was about £3,000 
of damage to the property.  
Aviva agreed to appoint a loss adjuster to visit the property to assess the damage to see if it 
could be considered to be malicious damage caused by the tenant. The loss adjuster 
subsequently reported to Aviva that the damage couldnt be considered to have been 
caused maliciously. It was also noted that Mr D hadnt reported it to the police or obtained a 
crime number. The loss adjuster thought the damage was consistent with general wear and 
tear and the result of a previously (declined) claim for damage to the roof so wasnt covered 
by the policy terms. 
Aviva issued its final response to Mr Ds complaint in early December 2020. It said that itd 
fully investigated the damage reported but it wasnt consistent with a one-off malicious act. 
So, it said its decision to decline Mr Ds claim remained unchanged. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, Mr D complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint but didnt think Aviva had unfairly or unreasonably 
declined the claim. Mr D asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage sustained by a property is covered by an insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured events  fire, theft, flood, malicious damage  is covered by 
the policy. Its the policyholders responsibility in the first instance to show that the damage 
they are claiming for has been caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy. If 
they are able to do so then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can rely on one of the 
policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Unfortunately for Mr D hes been not been able to show that the damage hes claimed for 
has been caused by one of the events covered by the policy. That means that Aviva doesnt 
have to settle his claim. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr D initially tried to make a loss of rent claim because his tenant had moved 
out and handed the keys back. Mr Ds policy does indeed provide cover for loss of rent but 
only where the premises cant be lived in or if access to them is denied as a result of 
damage caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy. I can also see that Aviva 
considered Mr Ds loss of rent claim but considered the premises to be habitable and that 
access hadnt been denied as a result of damage caused by an insured event. Having 
reviewed the available evidence  in particular the case notes documenting Mr Ds phone 
calls with Aviva and the loss adjusters report and photographs  I dont think that was an 
unreasonable decision for Aviva to have reached. 
I can also see that as part of his complaint to Aviva Mr D said hed had a builder look at the 
property who had assessed that there was about £3,000 of damage done to it. Following this 
comment Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to visit the property and assess the damage. The 
only potential insured event that could have resulted in the damage reported by Mr D was 
malicious damage caused by the tenant. 
The loss adjuster reported the separate areas of damage but considered them to have been 
caused by wear and tear or as a result of a previous issue Mr D had had with the roof. 
Having reviewed the loss adjusters report and seen the photographs he took I think that was 
a reasonable conclusion for him to have reached. I can see the damage amounted to scuff 
marks on walls consistent with general traffic and the moving of furniture, with blistering of 
the walls consistent with missing lead flashing identified in a previous claim, areas of damp 
and poor-quality carpet. 
The only expert evidence about the nature of the damage at Mr Ds property is that of the 
loss adjuster. He found no evidence of malicious damage or damage caused by any of the 
other insured events listed in the policy. I dont think Aviva unreasonably relied on this 
evidence to decline Mr Ds claim. Unfortunately for him the damage he reported isnt covered 
by his policy terms. In the circumstances I dont think Aviva unfairly declined to settle Mr Ds 
claim. It follows that Im unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 
24 March 2021. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman