complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) turned down their travel 
insurance claim and voided their policy because of misrepresentation. 
background
Mr and Mrs A took out a single trip travel insurance policy in October 2018. They underwent 
a medical screening, and told ERV about a number of medical conditions. ERV accepted 
those conditions.
Whilst on holiday in November 2018, Mr A was admitted to hospital. He made a claim to 
ERV, however this was turned down as ERV thought he hadnt told it about three pre-
existing medical conditions when hed applied for the policy (respiratory infection, chronic 
airflow limitation, and an arm fracture). ERV said if it had known about those additional three 
conditions, it wouldnt have offered him cover. It therefore voided the policy from the start 
and returned the premium paid. 
Initially, our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it was 
reasonable to have expected Mr A to declare the three conditions in response to the 
questions he was asked at the time of taking out the policy. 
However, after considering new medical evidence that Mr A had provided in support of his 
case, our investigator changed his mind. He thought the only condition Mr A shouldve 
declared was his arm fracture, and ERV had confirmed if it had known about this then cover 
would have still been offered with no additional premium payable. He thought the complaint 
ought to be upheld on that basis as there was no misrepresentation.
ERV didnt agree with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As ERV voided the policy due to misrepresentation, the relevant law that applies is the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive therefore 
considered the matter in accordance with the principles set out in CIDRA.
 In order to first decide whether there was misrepresentation, I need to be satisfied that clear 
questions were asked, and that Mr and Mrs As answers were wrong. Ive therefore listened 
to the medical screening call which took place with Mrs A (with Mr As permission). 
DRN-1770015Ive set out below the relevant questions ERV asked Mrs A, and her answers. 
In the last two years have either of you been waiting for or had any consultations, 
investigations, any test results or check-ups for any medical or psychological conditions? 
Mrs A answered yes to this question, and explained her husband had been diagnosed with 
pulmonary fibrosis. 
In the last two years have either of you been prescribed, have taken or are taking at all any 
medication, including repeat prescriptions?
Mrs A answered yes to this question, and confirmed her husband had taken medication for 
his pulmonary fibrosis. 
Any conditions or symptoms which we havent yet covered on the call?
Mrs A answered no to this question.
In order to decide whether Mrs As answers to the above questions were wrong, Ive 
considered the available medical evidence. 
Mr As GP has provided some information about his past medical history. 
In August 2017, Mr A had a closed fracture dislocation of his right shoulder joint. His GP has 
confirmed he sustained the fracture after falling, and attended A&E. The GP said Mr A didnt 
recall being told he had a fracture.
Whilst Mr A was having investigations for his arm injury, a pulmonary nodule was found and 
he was thought to have pulmonary fibrosis. Throughout 2018 further investigations were 
arranged for his pulmonary fibrosis. 
Also, in March 2018, Mr A started experiencing a dry cough and shortness of breath. Initially, 
his GP thought he had a chest infection, and said Mr A was given three courses of 
antibiotics over the following few months. His GP said Mr A was certainly aware hed been 
given antibiotics but didnt recall being told it was for a chest infection.
Mr A was then admitted to hospital in September 2018 with shortness of breath  his GP 
said this was thought to be an exacerbation of his pulmonary fibrosis. He was started on 
steroids and further antibiotics. His GP says Mr A didnt realise this would be regarded as a 
chronic airflow limitation and be something separate from his pulmonary fibrosis.
The GP said Mr As pulmonary fibrosis will cause restriction, shortness of breath and cough.
Mr A has also provided a letter from Dr M, his consultant respiratory physician. Dr M said Mr 
A had been referred to him by his GP in April 2018 for a worsening persistent cough. He said 
the GP had treated Mr A with antibiotics for a possible chest infection, but hed had a poor 
response to the treatment and his symptoms hadnt improved. Dr M confirmed the symptoms 
Mr A was experiencing were due to his underlying lung disease  therefore Mr A didnt have 
a chest infection at the time. 
Dr M also commented on the airflow limitation. He said the main problem with Mr A was his 
lung capacity, as opposed to airflow limitation, and this is due to his lung disease. He said Mr 
As pulmonary function tests confirmed evidence of what is called intrapulmonary restriction, 
but didnt show any evidence of airflow limitation. Based on the medical evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr A didnt have a chest infection 
or chronic airflow limitation in 2018. Dr M saw Mr A in 2018, before the policy was taken out. 
Although he was initially thought to have a chest infection, the treatment he was given didnt 
help and Dr M has confirmed his symptoms were caused by his lung disease  his 
pulmonary fibrosis, which ERV were told about and accepted for cover. Dr M has also 
confirmed that Mr A didnt have airflow limitation. 
ERV did ask Mrs A some further questions about Mr As pulmonary fibrosis. One of those 
questions asked In the last year have you had a chest infection or an episode of 
pneumonia?  Mrs A answered no to this question. 
ERV says that by amending this answer to yes, then cover would have been declined. 
However, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think Mr A did have a chest infection, 
and so I dont think Mrs A gave the wrong answer here. 
ERV also says that Mr A should have told it that hed been admitted to hospital shortly 
before taking out the policy. However, Mrs A was only asked how many hospital admissions 
Mr A had had for his condition in the last year. She correctly answered one. If ERV had 
wanted to know more information about that admission, it could have asked about this. 
Consequently, I dont think ERV has shown that the answers given in response to the 
questions it asked about Mr As condition of pulmonary fibrosis were incorrect. 
However, I do think Mr A should have told ERV about his arm fracture. He was admitted to 
hospital for this and then had further investigations throughout 2017. Although Ive noted Mr 
A says he didnt know hed experienced a fracture, he did know that hed dislocated his 
collar bone and had had consultations and investigations for this in the two years before 
taking out the policy. Consequently, I think he and Mrs A did fail to take reasonable care 
when answering the questions in respect of this condition 
Nevertheless, ERV has confirmed that if it had been aware of Mr As arm fracture, it 
wouldve still offered Mr A cover on normal terms. That means ERV hasnt shown the 
misrepresentation was qualifying, and so under CIDRA it has no remedy available to it. 
I therefore require ERV to deal with the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to 
deal with the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions. As it has returned the 
premium to Mr and Mrs A, it can deduct this from the claim settlement. 
If ERV needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs A directly for costs they incurred, interest should be 
added to the settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date they made the 
payments to the date of settlement.
 If ERV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs A a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman