DRN-4286184
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after she made a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance policy (in relation to a personal injury claim). 
What happened
In November 2019 Ms B contacted Aviva. Shed suffered a head injury following a fall on 
tiles in her kitchen and wanted assistance to pursue a personal injury claim. Aviva referred 
the matter to panel solicitors for an assessment of whether the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success (a requirement for funding to be provided under her policy). 
In January 2020 the panel firm advised the claim didnt have good prospects of success. 
Ms B subsequently asked if a different panel firm handling a separate claim for her could 
progress the personal injury claim. Aviva contacted that firm and asked it to provide a 
prospects assessment. It chased progress on that over the following months but an 
assessment wasnt provided. 
However, in October Aviva was contacted by a different firm (not on its panel) who said 
theyd now been instructed by Ms B to progress her claim. Aviva sent terms of business to 
that firm and asked whether the claim had prospects of success. That firm said a liability 
decision was awaited from the defendant and it would provide further updates after that. It 
told Aviva in March 2021 liability had been denied and it was seeking medical evidence after 
which it would be in a position to give an opinion on prospects. 
Following contact from Ms B, Aviva asked that firm for an update in May 2022. It said they 
were no longer progressing the case; it appears thats because they were no longer satisfied 
the claim did have reasonable prospects of success. Aviva advised Ms B of the position and 
asked if she wanted to use one of its panel firms. 
After discussion Aviva referred the matter to a new panel firm in June for a further 
assessment. That also concluded the claim didnt have good prospects. Information about 
that was provided to Ms B along with details of what she needed to do if she wanted to 
challenge the assessment. Ms B sent some further evidence in September which Aviva 
asked the panel firm to review. It confirmed its assessment remained unchanged.  
Our investigator explained we couldnt consider the actions of the solicitors involved in the 
case. And the policy did require a positive opinion on prospects for funding to be provided. 
None of the opinions provided on Ms Bs claim had been positive so she thought Aviva had 
acted fairly in turning down the claim. And she didnt think there had been any delay by 
Aviva in progressing matters. 
Ms B didnt agree. She explained more about the impact of her head injury and other 
difficulties in her personal life. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
First, I was sorry to learn of the impact of her head injury on Ms B and the other very sad 
personal issues shes experienced in recent years. I dont doubt this must have been an 
extremely difficult time for her. 
Turning to the issues shes raised as part of her complaint shes provided information which 
relates to the actions of the solicitors involved with her claim. But what a solicitors firm does 
when carrying out their legal role (for example assessing whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects of success) isnt something I can consider; the Legal Ombudsman might be able 
to consider a complaint about this. 
What I can look at is how the claim itself was handled (as thats something Aviva is 
responsible for). However, while I appreciate Ms B has other claims shes seeking to 
progress Im only considering in this decision her complaint about the personal injury claim 
she made.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy. This does include personal 
injury as one of the insured events for which the policy could pay costs and expenses to 
pursue a claim for damages. 
But cover is only provided where a claim has prospects of success. The policy says Our 
lawyer will assess the evidence and if it is more likely than not that you willrecover 
damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to (e.g. being paid 
compensation or stopping a neighbour from making noise) then we will fund the case for 
you.
So after Ms B made her claim to Aviva in November 2019 I think it correctly referred the 
matter to one of its panel solicitors for an assessment of its prospects of success. The 
opinion from the panel solicitor was that it didnt have good prospects. Ive read that opinion 
which I think is properly written and reasoned and from someone qualified to provide it. I 
dont think Aviva did anything wrong in then declining to provide funding for Ms Bs claim. 
I can also see that, as Id expect, Aviva explained to Ms B what shed need to do if she 
wanted to challenge that opinion. And it sought a further prospects assessment from the 
panel firm she wanted to then progress the case. It doesnt appear that was provided but I 
dont think that was because of anything Aviva got wrong. 
Once Aviva was contacted by the firm Ms B had by then instructed it acted appropriately in 
sending terms of business to that firm and asking it to provide its own opinion on prospects. 
That firm seems to have taken time to provide further information but Aviva followed matters 
up with it (following contact from Ms B) and was told it was no longer acting for her. I think it 
was reasonable of Aviva to then offer another panel firm to carry out a prospects 
assessment. 
And I think it was reasonable of it to rely on the further assessment from that firm and 
confirm it wouldnt be providing cover for Ms Bs claim. I also think it was right Aviva referred 
the information Ms B then provided back to that firm (though it appears this was information 
that firm had already seen and taken into account when carrying out their original 
assessment). In summary I think Aviva has correctly and fairly turned down the claim Ms B made because 
at no point has there been a positive assessment of its prospects of success. And I dont 
think there has been any significant delay by Aviva in progressing matters. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman