DRN-4108987
The complaint
Mr L and Miss R complain that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to properly account for 
funds resulting in a loss which they declined to refund.
What happened
Miss R is the main complainant here, so Ill generally refer to her throughout this complaint. 
Miss R says checked her NatWest banking app and saw that several payments were due to 
leave her account. One of those was a payment for a pension which Miss R thought was 
leaving her account a little earlier than usual.
Miss R says she ensured there was enough money in the account to take care of other bills 
she knew were coming up. Later, she was surprised to see that her account was showing a 
negative balance.
Miss R believes that she lost £59.67 and NatWest are responsible for the loss. Miss R spoke 
with NatWest about the situation and experienced some difficulties in trying to clear up what 
had happened. She eventually made a complaint to NatWest about the missing funds and 
her treatment.
NatWest investigated the situation and couldnt find any errors with how Miss Rs funds had 
been accounted for, but they accepted that Miss Rs experienced poor customer service and 
a delay answering her issue. NatWest apologised and credited her account with £25.
Miss R was left unhappy with NatWests response and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was assigned to an investigator 
to look into what had happened. Evidence was supplied by both parties, including the 
account details and Miss Rs information about the movements of her funds.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator didnt think that NatWest had made any errors 
concerning the account and that Miss R hadnt lost any funds. Her complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr L and Miss R disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. Its now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R was using the banking app at the time, and I understand this to be the main source of 
information concerning the account movements. Often, banking apps show a slightly 
different set of data about some movements to that which finally appear on bank statements. 
Due mainly to the difference in how they receive information from the banking system. For 
instance, a statement wont show that a direct debit is due to go out, it will just show when 
its actually gone out. Certain payments can also appear at different times depending on 
when theyre processed by merchants or other banks.
It's understandable that Miss R would be concerned because she genuinely believed that 
shed somehow lost money that NatWest were responsible for. But, looking through the 
statements, they dont show the same picture that Miss R thought was happening at the 
time. What the statements show is that the account didnt lose any funds, just that certain 
payments were recorded at slightly different times.
From the evidence Ive seen, theres no indication that Miss R lost any funds from the 
account, so I wont be asking NatWest to refund anything.
Miss R wanted further compensation for the hassle they put her through. I understand her 
frustrations at the time taken by NatWest to deal with her issue. Its accepted that there will 
be an element of time and effort required to deal with a problem. But here, it appears to have 
taken longer than expected and NatWest accepted this, apologised and paid £25 for the 
inconvenience and additional costs incurred by Miss R. I dont think that NatWests 
resolution here was unreasonable and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman