DRN-2052451
The complaint
Mr J complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited supplied him with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr J entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. 
Under the agreement MotoNovo was to provide Mr J with a car which was five years old, 
with a recorded mileage of just under 45,500 and with a cash price of £6,700. 
Mr J says that the car broke down in February 2020 and had to be taken to a local garage, 
which said the engine had seized. He contacted MotoNovo and an inspection was arranged. 
The resulting engineers report concluded that the engine had indeed seized. The cause 
couldnt be established without dismantling the engine. The report indicated that MotoNovo 
wasnt responsible for arranging or paying for any further inspection. MotoNovo told Mr J that 
it wouldnt be upholding his complaint. 
Mr J referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. Having 
done so, he recommended that MotoNovo refund four monthly hire payments of £156.21 
each for the time Mr J had been unable to use the car, pay Mr J £1,500, the estimated cost 
of repairs, and pay him a further £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which hed been 
put. 
Mr J accepted the investigators recommendations, but MotoNovo didnt  and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
MotoNovo should have provided Mr J with a car which was of satisfactory quality. What that 
means depends on the circumstances  including in this case the cars age, mileage and 
price. I wouldnt necessarily expect the car Mr J acquired to be entirely free of faults, and 
certainly not for the full duration of the hire purchase agreement. Even at the beginning of 
that period, I might expect some items to show signs of wear and tear. 
In this case however, the engine seized completely after a few months. That was a major 
failing and one which would be expensive to repair. Even allowing for the cars age and 
mileage, I think Mr J could reasonably expect the engine still to be running after that time. 
I note that the engineers report concludes that the engine could not have been seized at the 
time of delivery. Had it been, of course, Mr J wouldnt have been able to drive the car, so 
that conclusion is of limited assistance in showing whether or not the car was of satisfactory 
quality when delivered. But satisfactory quality includes durability, and I think Mr J was 
entitled to expect the car not to suffer such a serious failure after he had had it for only a few 
months.    
Putting things right
The investigator recommended compensation based on the likely cost of replacing the 
engine  acknowledging that it wasnt possible to quantify that cost exactly and that 
dismantling the engine to establish the exact cause of the failure was unlikely to be 
economic. He also recommended the refund of four monthly payments under the hire 
purchase agreement. I appreciate that Mr J will have been without the car for longer than 
that now, but overall I think the investigators recommendation is reasonable.  
I note however that the investigator made payment of the award conditional on Mr J 
providing evidence of the engine having been replaced. I dont propose to impose any 
similar condition.   
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Js complaint, MotoNovo Finance Limited should:
refund monthly payments made from February to May 2020, backdating the refunds to 
the date of payment so that any interest on those payments is also reimbursed;
pay Mr J £1,500 as a contribution towards the cost of repairs; and 
pay Mr J £250 in recognition of the inconvenience hes suffered.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman