DRN-2561889
The complaint
Mr B complains that Experian Limited is recording someone elses information on his credit 
file. 
What happened
Mr B has told us that he first contacted Experian about adverse information recorded on his 
credit file in 2015. The debt in question was recorded with the same first name, date of birth 
and address as Mr B but held a different surname. The surname the debt is registered under 
is shorter to Mr Bs surname but similar. 
Mr B told Experian the debt isnt his and it agreed to accept a declaration from a solicitor to 
that effect and remove it from his credit file. Since that time, the debt has reappeared on Mr 
Bs credit file more than once and each time, Experian agreed to remove it. 
In 2019 Mr B found the debt (recorded by a business Ill call A) on his credit file again and 
asked Experian to remove it. Experian refused and said its records indicated the debt 
belonged to Mr B who used the shortened version of his name as an alias. Mr B complained 
but Experian wont remove the debt from his record. Experian said Mr B had previously 
created an account and provided the shortened version of his name as an alias. Mr B, in 
turn, says the debt belonged to his landlord at the time who had the same address, date of 
birth, first name and surname beginning with the same letter. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Experian had handled Mr Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr B asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the adverse information reported on Mr Bs credit file has come up several times 
and Experian was previously willing to remove it. Experian says that as its systems have 
changed over time, its found more information that links Mr B to the account in question. 
Experian also says it no longer accepts legal declarations to disassociate someone from a 
disputed debt. Mr B has told us the account with A wasnt his and that it belonged to his 
landlord, who had a very similar name along with the same date of birth and address. Mr B 
has said he doesnt use the alias Experian has highlighted. Ive looked at the information 
Experian has given us to see whether its acting reasonably by reporting the account on Mr 
Bs credit file. 
Experian says Mr B previously set up an account with an alias that matches the name the 
account with A is registered in. Mr B says thats not correct. Ive looked at the systems 
information Experian has provided and can see the account was created using a company 
email address and included the alias as Experian has claimed. The company the email 
address is from (Ill call it BP) is recorded on Companies House as having closed in 2014, 
but Mr B is listed as the company director. I note the name of the company Mr B appears to 
have been the director of matches the abbreviated version of his name that the disputed 
account with A is held in. 
Mr B told our investigator that isnt aware of a connection with BP, but the information 
recorded on Companies House matches his full name and details. Mr B has confirmed hes 
the director of another business (Ill call it BD) which is recorded with Companies House in 
exactly the same name. 
The information Ive seen strongly indicates Mr B was the director at BP and used his 
company email address to set up an account with Experian. And when that account was set 
up, details of an alias that matches the name of the disputed debt were provided. 
Ive looked at the other information we have on file and can see Mr B was on the voters roll 
at the address the disputed debt was registered at. I appreciate Mr B has said the debt 
belonged to his landlord or another third party, but the information Ive seen shows there are 
links and matching details. Based on the information available, I think Experians decision to 
link the debt to Mr B on his credit file is reasonable. 
Mr B recently told us that he believes someone may have carried out fraud against him and 
obtained his details from publicly held information. If Mr B is concerned that the account with 
A was fraudulently opened, he will need to contact the business to discuss it. 
I need to decide whether Experian has acted fairly by reporting the disputed debt and 
associated adverse information on Mr Bs credit file. Whilst I understand Mr Bs concerns, 
the evidence and information available in this case doesnt indicate Experian has made an 
error. As Ive said above, Mr B has confirmed he was resident at the address the debt was 
registered at. All the personal details (except the surname) provided by A match Mr Bs 
details. Mr B appears to have previously used a company email address to set up an 
account with Experian that included the alias the disputed debt is registered in. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent found Experian has made an error or treated him 
unfairly by reporting As debt and the associated adverse information on his credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman