DRN-3906106
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim they 
made for malicious damage under their property owners insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C own a property which is rented out. After a tenant left the property, they made 
a claim to Ageas for malicious damage by the tenant. 
Ageas said most of the items claimed for wouldnt be covered under the malicious damage 
section. It said the holes in the walls could be covered under malicious damage, but the 
repairs needed fell below the policy excess. For the remainder, it said the damage was more 
a result of lifestyle damage and wear and tear, which isnt covered, rather than damage 
caused maliciously.
Mr and Mrs C complained, they felt all of the damage should be covered by Ageas. They 
also complained about the service theyd received during the claim, particularly how long it 
took for Ageas to tell them the claim wouldnt be covered.
Unhappy with Ageass response, Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to our service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. She thought Ageas had reached a fair claim 
decision, so she didnt think it needed to do anything differently. She said that most of the 
time it took for Ageas to reach its decision was due it not receiving information it needed 
from Mr and Mrs C. So, she didnt recommend any compensation should be paid in those 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy does cover them for malicious damage caused by tenants. Ageas 
policy wording doesnt define what it means by malicious but a dictionary definition 
suggests it means intending to do harm. This means that for the damage to be malicious, 
there needs to be an intent to cause harm to Mr and Mrs C  it's more than the tenant simply 
acting without any care or with neglect.
In addition to malicious damage, Mr and Mrs C have suggested that their tenants stole some 
wardrobes. But Im not aware that theyve made a claim for these stolen items under the 
theft section of their policy, or that there has been a dispute with Ageas about this. So, Ive 
not considered these stolen wardrobes under this complaint. Instead, my decision here is 
focused only on Ageas decision not to cover the reported damage under the malicious 
damage section.
From the evidence Ive seen, there is clearly damage to Mr and Mrs Cs property, including 
but not limited to, stained carpets, paint spillages, dirt and grime in the bathroom and some 
missing doors from kitchen cupboards/units. There are also holes in various walls, either 
from impact or where fixtures or fittings have been removed, and pen scribbles on various 
walls. Ageas has said the majority of this isnt evidence of malicious damage, rather it says 
the damage is more consistent with general lifestyle damage and wear and tear. 
Based on everything Ive seen; I dont think thats an unreasonable stance for Ageas to take. 
So, Im not going to interfere with Ageas decision on Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
Mr and Mrs C have argued the damage isnt consistent with how normal people live. But that 
doesnt persuade me that the tenant most likely intended to do harm. I agree that the overall 
condition Mr and Mrs Cs property was left in was poor. But in my view, this appears more 
likely to be due to neglect and the tenants failure to take lack of proper care, as a landlord 
would reasonably expect, rather than malicious damage with an intent to cause them harm.
 
While it could be argued that the writing on walls was intentional, this seems to have been 
done by the tenants child/children. So again, I dont think this would meet the definition of 
malicious. Instead, I think its consistent with the tenants clear lack of care for the condition 
of the property  which while understandably upsetting and frustrating for Mr and Mrs C 
doesnt, in my view, amount to malicious damage.
Ageas said it would have been prepared to deal with the holes in the walls, under the 
malicious damage cover. But it says the cost of repairs is lower than the policy excess, 
based on an invoice supplied by Mr and Mrs C. I think Ageas position here is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy with the length of time it took for Ageas to reach its claim 
decision. I note this took six months. However, as our investigator highlighted, during this 
time there were significant periods where Ageas was waiting for Mr and Mrs C to provide 
information it required. So, I cant reasonably hold Ageas responsible for the full length of 
time it took to reach its decision. And as Im ultimately of the view that Ageas decision is fair 
and reasonable, I dont think it would be fair to direct it to pay any compensation to 
Mr and Mrs C in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs C complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman