DRN-3401546
The complaint
Mr O says that Nationwide Building Society has reneged on a promise made to him in 
March 2017 that, when his interest-only mortgage reached the end of its term in 2020, hed 
be able to extend the term until his 75th birthday, convert 5% of the mortgage to a capital 
repayment basis and have the remaining 95% on interest-only.
To settle the complaint, Mr O wants Nationwide abide by the agreement he believed was 
made in March 2017.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence 
between the parties, and in the investigators letter dated 4 March 2022. All parties have a 
copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr O being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
I must also explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr O would like 
answered to his satisfaction by Nationwide, its not my role to put those questions to 
Nationwide or act as a representative or go-between on this case.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, Mr O has a mortgage, originally taken out with another building society which later 
became part of Nationwide. Some of the mortgage was on a capital repayment basis (which 
has now been repaid and does not feature in this complaint) and about £169,000 is on an 
interest-only basis. The term of the mortgage expired in January 2020 and the balance 
remains outstanding.
On 2 March 2017 Nationwide wrote to Mr O to ask him about his repayment plans. Its letter 
set out various options that might be available. Following this, on 7 March 2017 Mr O spoke 
to Nationwide. There was some discussion around the option of extending the mortgage 
term to Mr Os 75th birthday and converting 5% of it to capital repayment, with the remaining 
95% on interest-only. Mr O said he was interested in this option. He wanted to keep a 
mortgage of some kind in order to mitigate potential future inheritance tax liability. 
By 2020 Nationwide no longer offered the option of converting part of the mortgage to 
repayment and leaving the rest on interest-only. Nationwide expected Mr O to repay the 
balance of the mortgage in full. The term was informally extended to December 2020 
because of the pandemic. In November 2020 Nationwide explained that, if Mr O was 
struggling, guidance from the regulator meant that Nationwide could consider extending the 
mortgage term to October 2021.
In August 2021 Mr O complained to Nationwide. His position is that during the call in 
March 2017, and taking into account what the letter dated 2 March 2017 said, Nationwide 
had made a binding offer to put in place the arrangement hed discussed when his mortgage 
term came to an end in January 2020. Nationwide disagreed and explained that during the 
call it had been explained that this was an option to be discussed at a future date, and so no 
offer had been made. 
Mr O didnt agree with this. He was also dissatisfied about the way Nationwide had dealt with 
his complaint, and also raised some further complaints about this. Mr O referred his 
complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He wasnt persuaded Nationwide had made a binding offer to 
Mr O during the call in March 2017 to convert 5% of his mortgage to capital repayment, keep 
95% on interest-only and extend the term until Mr O reached the age of 75 (which would be 
in January 2029).
Mr O disagreed with the investigators findings and made detailed points in response. In 
summary, Mr O says that there was a binding offer in place, leading him to believe that he 
would be able to extend his mortgage from January 2020 until his 75th birthday. Mr O says 
that, acting in reliance on this promise, he invested money he would otherwise have used to 
repay his mortgage. Unfortunately, those investments lost money and, although he owns a 
property abroad which is free of mortgage, he would not want to think about selling this until 
he is 75. 
Mr O says that the issue of promissory estoppel arises, because, in reliance on what 
Nationwide had promised, he acted to his detriment in investing funds elsewhere, and so 
Nationwide should not now be allowed to go back on its promise. Mr O has also made some 
detailed points about contract law.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, I will not be addressing each and every argument Mr O has put 
forward. In particular, his dissatisfaction at the way Nationwide dealt with his complaint, 
spelling mistakes and delay in sending him a call transcript during the course of investigating 
the complaint arent matters I will be commenting on. Thats because complaint-handling 
isnt a regulated activity and so doesnt fall within the scope of our rules.The crux of this complaint is that Mr O believes that, during the call in March 2017, and 
taking into account its letter dated 2 March 2017, Nationwide made a binding offer to him to 
convert 5% of his mortgage to capital repayment, keep the remainder on interest-only and 
extend the term until his 75th birthday.
Having read the letter and listened to the call, I note that this was something that might have 
been available in March 2017, but there is nothing in the call that persuades me that this 
constituted a mortgage offer by Nationwide. It was an option that Nationwide could have 
offered in 2017, but by January 2020 it was no longer an option. 
Nationwide is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and to vary those criteria from time to 
time as it sees fit. The options that were available in March 2017 were no longer available by 
the time Mr Os mortgage reached the end of its term in January 2020. Although in 2020 and 
2021 Mr O might have wanted to extend his mortgage term in line with what hed discussed 
in March 2017, Im satisfied that this wasnt something Nationwide was able to offer him.
I appreciate Mr O feels very strongly that there was a binding offer from Nationwide made in 
March 2017, and that this agreement was embodied in both its letter and during the phone 
call. However, Im not persuaded that this is the case, because only options were discussed 
in March 2017. Although Mr O believes Nationwide is now estopped from denying there was 
a contract, Im satisfied that this isnt the case. There was no clear and unambiguous 
promise made by Nationwide, in my opinion. 
But in any event, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the power to determine 
whether there was a legally-binding contract that came into effect in March 2017, or whether 
Nationwide is now estopped from denying the existence of that purported contract; only a 
court can do this. What I have to determine is what is fair and reasonable. 
Having considered everything thats happened, Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt make a 
binding offer to extend Mr Os mortgage in March 2017. Im also satisfied that Nationwides 
later correspondence asking about Mr Os repayment strategy supports this. 
The mortgage is now overdue for repayment and now I have issued my decision, Nationwide 
will be expecting Mr O to repay the outstanding mortgage balance in full. It might help Mr O 
to speak to an independent financial adviser about the best way to do this. Details of 
financial advisers can be found on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website.
In the event that Mr O and Nationwide arent able to reach agreement about repayment of 
the mortgage, as a last resort, Nationwide will be entitled to pursue recovery of the debt in 
court. In this regard, I will explain that the court has very limited powers to assist borrowers 
where the mortgage term has come to an end. Given this, I hope that Mr O is able to provide 
Nationwide with a suitable repayment strategy within the near future. 
If Nationwide has no other option but to take the matter to court, Mr O is, of course, free to 
raise with the court the issues hes raised with us about his belief that a binding contract was 
made in March 2017. Having read the points Mr O has made about contract law and 
promissory estoppel as he considers they apply to this matter, I would suggest Mr O might 
want to take advice from a qualified solicitor before raising any of these arguments in court.
My final decision
I know Mr O will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman