DRN-3302086
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Premier Added Value Account (PAVA) in July 2011 
by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). He also complains that he was not given adequate redress for 
the mis-sale of his Select Added Value Account (SAVA) which Lloyds upheld.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before opening the PAVA Mr M had held a free account with Lloyds, and free accounts were 
widely advertised and available. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr M knew he had a 
choice whether to take out the PAVA, and he chose to do so.
Lloyds agrees that it recommended the PAVA to Mr M, so it was required to ensure it was 
suitable for him and that he had enough information to make an informed decision.
Lloyds has provided two records of its discussion with Mr M about the PAVA, which indicate 
that he was interested in all the key benefits as he had a car, a mobile phone and a home, 
and he was interested in travelling. The records indicate he was particularly interested in the 
home cover and this was only available with the PAVA, and not available with the Gold 
account he already had.
So, I think its more likely than not that the PAVA was suitable for Mr M. As there was clearly 
a discussion about the benefits, I think Lloyds also provided enough information about the 
PAVA to him, and I cant see anything about the PAVA that he wasnt told that might have 
put him off.
So, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when it sold the PAVA to Mr M.
Ive also considered Mr Ms complaint that the redress he was given for his SAVA was not 
enough.
Neither party knows when the SAVA was sold. The SAVA was not available before January 
1997. And Lloyds only has records going back to September 2001. As a result, Lloyds has 
taken the start date of the SAVA as the midpoint between these two dates to calculate the 
redress it is giving. In the absence of any other information I think this is a fair and 
reasonable thing to do. So, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint on this point either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman