DRN-4191318
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Company Limited (Lloyds) 
handled a claim under her home insurance policy following a leak at her property.
 
Lloyds use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Lloyds 
includes these agents.
What happened
The details of what happened in this case are well known to Mrs S and Lloyds (and set out in 
our investigators view of the complaint). So, I wont repeat here the full detail of what 
happened and the sequence of events, just a summary.
In May 2022 there was a leak in the kitchen of Mrs Ss property, causing damage to the 
flooring in the kitchen and other areas. Mrs S contacted Lloyds to tell them about the 
damage and lodge a claim. Lloyds told Mrs S to arrange for a plumber to fix the leak and 
provided photographs of the damage and affected areas (which she did). Lloyds appointed a 
personal claims consultant (PCC) to visit the property and inspect the damage. 
The PCC visited in June 2022, following which Lloyds asked Mrs S to obtain estimates for 
the cost of replacing the damaged flooring. Mrs S had difficulty obtaining quotes, so it was 
agreed (August 2022) that Lloyds would appoint a contractor (B) to scope the work needed 
to repair the damage. B visited the property the following month, after which the scope of 
work was authorised (three weeks later). There was some delay while Lloyds secured 
resource to arrange a start date for the work and B requesting floor drying (not included in 
the initial scope of work). 
A separate contractor (P) was appointed to carry out the drying work, visiting the property in 
November 2022 to take initial readings. However, the presence of asbestos in the property 
meant further work and drying needing to be completed before any reinstatement of the 
flooring could start. P visited the property again in January 2023 to reassess the floor. 
In February 2023, Mrs S raised concerns (with B) about the cost of flooring and other issues. 
Unhappy at several aspects of the work (and the time taken to assess the claim and 
reinstate the flooring) Mrs S complained to Lloyds. Mrs S also said an elderly relative at the 
property had suffered personal injury during the reinstatement work.
In their final response they upheld the complaint, apologising for not providing better service 
to Mrs S. They accepted there had been multiple delays, including it should have established 
at the start that drying would be needed and it should have started before looking to 
reinstate the property. There were delays in arranging visits to the property and elements of 
the work needed were omitted from the scope of works. Lloyds also accepted there was a 
lack of communication and miscommunication between the contractors, and that Mrs S had 
to chase them for updates on progress.
To put things right, Lloyds awarded £1,125 in compensation for not providing a better 
service. They also offered to clean carpets at the property (when reinstatement work was 
complete) affected by dust. And to replace the flooring theyd originally offered with flooring 
of a higher cost (equivalent to that damaged). They also offered to review flooring in the 
hallway, which Mrs S said was damaged when reinstatement work was being carried out. 
On the personal injury issue, Lloyds said they thought the flooring (when stripped out) had 
been made safe. But if Mrs S believed it hadnt and the contractors (B and P) had been 
negligent (causing the injury) she should contact Lloyds legal department and provide 
written allegations of negligence. 
 
Mrs S then complained to this service. She said the issues hadnt been fully resolved, 11 
months after the leak. The flooring wasnt replaced for months after the incident (and only 
took two days). Some work still hadnt been completed, with some jobs (such as painting) 
only half finished. While Lloyds had increased its offer of compensation (from £600 to 
£1,125) she didnt think this was sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she (and her family) had suffered (as shed also had to pay the policy excess of £500). 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Lloyds didnt need to take any 
action. She thought there were delays during the claim process, due to both Mrs S and 
Lloyds. The nature of the damage was likely to lead to some delays, given the number of 
parties involved. And issues due to the presence of asbestos and drying of the property 
would have caused disturbance. She concluded there was substantial distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs Ss daily life over many months. Taking this into account, the 
investigator thought Lloyds offer of compensation, an apology and agreeing to replace the 
flooring with Mrs Ss choice (and clean the carpets affected by dust) was fair. On the injury to 
Mrs Ss elderly relative, that was something Mrs S would need to pursue through a personal 
injury claim against Lloyds (and contact their legal department).
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She didnt think the investigator had taken all the details of what had 
happened into account. She also provided photographs and a video of the conditions at her 
property, lasting over a year. She also referred to the injury to her elderly relative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say Ive considered very carefully what Mrs S has told us about whats 
happened and the impact its had on her and her family. And looking at the photographs and 
video shes provided shows something of the situation at her property during the 
reinstatement work. A leak causing the damage it did to her property, together with the 
consequent disruption (including that from the reinstatement work) will always have a 
significant impact. Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as is my role, whether Lloyds have 
acted fairly towards Mrs S.
Its accepted that there were significant shortcomings in the way the claim was handled, 
including the reinstatement work needed to make good the damage. Lloyds final response 
acknowledges the shortcomings on its part (and those of its contractors) so I wont repeat 
them here. At the same time, some of the delays werent attributable to Lloyds or their 
contractors, such as the difficulty Mrs S had in obtaining quotes for the reinstatement work  
meaning the work then had to be carried out by contractors appointed by Lloyds. And having 
to deal with the presence of asbestos will have brought its own challenges, given the health 
and safety considerations that asbestos rightly creates. The main issue in Mrs Ss complaint is the level of compensation that would be fair and 
reasonable, given the shortcomings in the handling of the claim and the reinstatement work. 
Ill come onto that issue, but Ill first deal with the other aspects of the complaint.
First, theres the issue Mrs S raised about the personal injury to an elderly relative living at 
the property. She says this was due to negligence from the contractors (B and P) during the 
reinstatement work. Lloyds say (as do the contractors) that the floor was made safe following 
the stripping out of the property. But in their final response, they say if Mrs S believes there 
is a potential personal injury claim, she should raise it (in writing) with their legal department. 
I think this is reasonable, so it can be fully and properly considered (including Lloyds 
response). By its nature, it isnt something for this service to determine or upon which I can 
reach conclusions or issue a decision. So, Ive not considered this aspect any further.
Other issues include the cost of the replacement flooring within the reinstatement work. 
From the evidence available, it seems this was originally included in the scope of works at a 
cost of £15 per sq metre (which is the standard cost Lloyds would use for flooring of the type 
at Mrs Ss property). However, the flooring at the property was of a different quality, being of 
higher cost. That being the case, Lloyds offer to replace the flooring at a cost of £22 per sq 
metre is fair and reasonable, putting Mrs S back in the position she was in before the 
incident.
Lloyds also offered to clean the carpets at the property, as they were affected by dust 
created by the reinstatement work. I think thats fair and reasonable (and for the cleaning to 
take place after the reinstatement work is complete).
On the question of compensation, Ive considered this issue carefully in the context of the 
circumstances of the case. Its clear that while some of the delays were not the responsibility 
of Lloyds and its contractors (as Ive set out above) several of them were. Together, they 
meant the claim took longer than it should to be assessed, as did the reinstatement work. 
This in turn meant a significant impact on Mrs S (and her family) over a significant period, 
extending over many months from the date of the incident.
 
Ive considered this in the context of the approach we take when considering and awarding 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ive concluded Lloyds actions (including the 
avoidable delays) caused Mrs S substantial distress, worry and upset (including the effect on 
her from the impact on her family). And there was severe disruption to her daily life (and that 
of her family) over a sustained period of many months. Lloyds have awarded £1,125 and in 
the context of our approach, Ive concluded this is a fair and reasonable figure in the 
circumstances of this case.
If Lloyds havent already paid the compensation, then they should do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited should:
Pay Mrs S £1,125 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (if they havent 
already paid it).
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman