DRN-3188976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about Covea Insurance Limiteds handing of their claim for damage 
caused by a shattered shower screen under their home buildings insurance policy.  
I will refer to Mr M for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M heard a loud noise in the night and found the shower screen in his 
bathroom had shattered. He says this caused damage to the bath as well as the wall and 
floor tiles. He contacted Covea to report the incident and confirmed he would obtain quotes 
for the repair work. For personal reasons he didnt progress the claim further until October 
2020 when he contacted the company again with two quotes for the repairs.
Covea says it told Mr M his policy covered damage to the shower screen and bath but the 
damage to the tiles wasnt covered. Mr M wasnt happy about this. Covea subsequently 
arranged for an inspection of the damage. This took place in December 2020. The assessor 
identified the screen should be replaced and that it should be established if the damaged 
bath could be repaired. The assessor confirmed the damaged tiles werent covered by Mr 
Ms policy. Covea contacted its repairer, and it confirmed the repair to the bath was possible. 
Mr M remained unhappy with this outcome and with Coveas handling of his claim, so he 
referred the matter to our service. Our investigator decided not to uphold his complaint. She 
thought the company had fairly relied on the terms of the policy when offering to replace the 
shower screen and repair the bath. She thought the damaged tiles werent covered and it 
was fair that this part of the claim was declined. Our investigator thought Covea behaved 
reasonably in paying Mr M £50 compensation for a delay and for communication failings. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The terms of Mr Ms policy under the building cover section say:
What we can cover you for: 
Glass, Sanitary Ware and Ceramic Hobs.
Accidental breakage of ceramic hobs in fixed appliances, fixed glass, solar panels and 
sanitary ware. Examples of these are bathroom sinks, baths and toilets.
For a claim to be accepted Covea must first establish that an insured event, covered by its 
policy, has occurred. I have read through the terms to understand the cover provided by Mr 
Ms buildings insurance policy. The policy includes cover for accidental breakage for specific 
parts of the building. As above, this includes fixed glass and sanitary wear. Covea says 
cover is provided for the shower screen and bath. But not for damage to bathroom tiles. 
Based on the policy terms, this seems fair.  
Covea explains that Mr M would need additional accidental damage cover to claim for the 
damage to his bathroom tiles. I have read through the accidental damage section of the 
policy to clarify this point. The terms say:
This cover is optional. Your schedule shows if this section applies to your policy.
Accidental Damage: Well pay to repair your buildings if they are accidentally damaged.
By accidental damage we mean damage that happens suddenly and wasnt expected. For 
example, paint being spilled on laminate flooring. 
The cover provided by the optional accidental damage cover is wider in scope than that 
covered under the buildings part of the policy. Under these terms its likely cover would be 
available for the tile damage Mr M has claimed. Unfortunately, his policy schedule shows 
cover is in place for buildings and contents only. This doesnt include the optional accidental 
damage cover. 
Having considered the above, I think Covea acted reasonably in accepting the claim for the 
damage caused to the shower screen and to the bath but declining the claim for the 
damaged tiles. 
Covea explains that based on its assessors recommendation it asked its chosen contractor 
if the damaged bath could be repaired. It confirmed the damage was repairable based on the 
photos provided. 
I have thought about whether it was fair for Covea to offer a repair of the damaged bath as 
opposed to a replacement. The policy terms say:
How we will settle your claim: 
Once accepted, well decide whether to settle your claim by:
 rebuilding
 repairing
 replacing or
 making a cash payment to you.
I think the policy terms are clear that Covea can decide to settle the claim by offering a 
repair. Its contractor says the bath is repairable. So, I think Covea has been fair in proposing 
this action in line with its policy terms. Because Mr M didnt agree for its contractor to carry 
out the repairs Covea offered a cash settlement payment. 
I understand Mr M had concerns about the company that was proposed to carry out the 
repairs, based on online reviews. I acknowledge his comments. But I cant reasonably say 
the work will have been unsatisfactory based on this, or that it wasnt fair that Covea wanted 
to handle the claim by arranging repairs.
Mr M is also concerned that the wall tiles the shower screen are attached to arent being 
replaced. Covea says the bracket fits over the tiles and is screwed in place. It thinks the 
screen can be replaced without removing the tiles. If this approach turns out to be unsuccessful it says Mr M can provide evidence of this for it to consider. 
Mr M says the plumbers he has approached say the tiles need to be removed, as they will 
likely be damaged when replacing the shower screen. I have read the two quotes Mr M 
supplied regarding repair work to his bathroom. The earlier dated of the two says all tiles and 
the bathroom suite are to be removed and a new bath and shower screen fitted. It doesnt 
say the screen cant be fitted over the existing tiles. 
The second quote says the wall tiles around the bath area need to be removed for removal 
of the bath. This quote also says that all wall and floor tiles are to be replaced with a new 
bath and shower screen fitted. 
The repair suggested by Covea doesnt require removal of the bath, so the tiles wouldnt 
need removing. I note the difference of opinion regarding the wall tiles, but I dont think its 
been shown that the new screen cant be fitted in the way suggested. The policy terms allow 
for a repair to be attempted. If a problem does occur its fair that Covea considers this further. 
But I think the offer to attempt a repair is fair and is in line with the policy terms.  
Because Mr M didnt want Coveas contractor to carry out the repair it offered a settlement 
payment for £281.04 so he can arrange this himself. This is after the £300 policy excess is 
taken. Mr M doesnt think this takes into consideration the cost of replacing the L-shaped 
shower screen as he cant find screens at the price suggested by Covea. 
The settlement Covea offered was a combined amount for a repair of the bath and 
replacement and fitment of the shower screen. This was based on the information provided 
by Mr M and the visit by the assessor. I acknowledge Mr Ms comments that he thinks it will 
cost more than the business has offered to complete the repairs. But most insurers have 
established relationships with contractors who agree rates that tend to be below the market 
price. As Mr M was offered a repair but chose not to accept this. I think its fair for Covea to 
pay him what it would have cost it, if it had used its approved repairers. This might be less 
than it would cost Mr M to arrange for the repairs himself.    
Finally, I have thought about Mr Ms concerns that Covea initially declined his claim and that 
he was not informed it had arranged for the damage to be inspected. Also, his concerns 
about how the surveyor communicated with him, and his view that the service provided was 
generally below the standard he expected. 
The company says its claim handler did initially believe only the shower screen was covered. 
After realising this was a mistake, it confirmed both the bath and shower would be covered. 
It says the lack of communication with respect to its inspection was unacceptable and it paid 
£50 compensation to Mr M to acknowledge this. 
Having considered the information provided, I think some failings in communication have 
been demonstrated. But based on the evidence I have seen I think the £50 payment Covea 
provided is fair to acknowledge this.
In summary I think Covea treated Mr M fairly when relying on its policy terms and offering a 
settlement payment. It didnt treat him fairly in all communications, but the £50 compensation 
it paid was fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman