DRN-2969595
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as C has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined 
its claim for loss of profits. 
Mrs A, a director of C, has complained on Cs behalf.
What happened
C held a commercial insurance policy with Covea which included cover for loss of profits. C 
claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Cs claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover in the circumstances. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, C brought its complaint to us. It didnt think it was 
reasonable for Covea to have declined the claim. C also asked whether the policy document 
Covea had used to decline the claim was the correct one. 
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he thought 
Covea had acted fairly and reasonably in finding that the policy didnt provide cover. 
C asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Cs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Cs claim. I havent seen anything to indicate that the policy Covea have 
supplied isnt the one in force at the time of Cs claim. 
Denial of access
This provides cover for:
interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of an 
Incident as insured by this Section, occasioned by Damage to Property in the 
vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the use or access to the 
Premises
The policy defines damage as physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property.
For this to provide cover, the interruption or interference with Cs business would need 
to be due to physical loss or destruction of or damage to property in the vicinity of Cs 
premises which prevented or hindered the use of or access to Cs premises. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that this was the cause of Cs loss. Therefore, there isnt 
cover under this part of the policy for its claim. 
Infectious Diseases
This extension says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested 
by any person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the 
Premises
The policys definition of disease is a list of covered diseases. The list doesnt include 
Covid-19. Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was 
drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar 
policies on the market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for 
example policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a 
Government-defined list. Cs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the 
diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which 
implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont 
think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease.
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that
these two diseases are the same and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Cs claim.
Public emergency
This extension says:
The Extension provides cover for the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority due to an emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of 
the Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; 
excluding:

4) infectious or contagious diseases
I think Cs loss of income was as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations 
website describes as an infectious disease. Therefore, the exclusion applies and I think 
Covea have acted fairly and reasonably in finding this doesnt cover the circumstances of 
Cs claim. I recognise this isnt the answer C was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Cs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman