DRN-2411441
The complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out in 1997. Lloyds cant 
say for sure whether the policy was sold at the same time as the credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr D applied for his card in 1997 and its possible that he bought PPI at the same 
time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its most likely Mr D bought 
the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr D aware the PPI was optional and he chose to
take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales processes
in 1997, Mr D wouldve had to actively select the PPI on his credit
card application form. On balance, I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the
PPI to Mr Ds account if he hadnt chosen to take it out.
Mr D says he was put under pressure by Lloyds to take out the policy. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr D and Lloyds when the 
policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty years ago, 
and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
So without anything else to support what Mr D has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Lloyds didnt make him aware the PPI was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as
if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr D says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because
of sickness or accident, so he didnt need the PPI.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ds employer benefits, and would 
do so, it seems, for longer. So I think Mr D wouldve had some use for the policy, 
despite his existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr D would have been affected by any of the
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had
a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying
it.
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman