DRN-1891650
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about CIS General Insurance Limited. She isn't happy that it settled a 
motor insurance claim against her policy in 2019, which she considered was fraudulent. 
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs A was reversing out of a parking space when she collided with a third 
party vehicle. Mrs A said the impact was minimal and it was agreed at the scene of the 
accident that no damage had been caused to either vehicle. Therefore, Mrs A said no photos 
were taken, but she exchanged details with the third party as per their request. 
Mrs A was later contacted by the third party's insurer and was informed that it would be 
attempting to recover its outlay from her insurer. Mrs A said the third party's insurer initially 
thought the damage was to the rear of the third party's vehicle, whereas she said the impact 
was to the front. Mrs A said the third party had changed their story.
Mrs A later contacted CIS about the conversation she had with the third party's insurer. She 
said she thought the third party submitted a fraudulent claim because there was no damage 
present to either vehicle, and the impact occurred to the front of the third party vehicle, not 
the rear. 
CIS carried out an inspection on Mrs A's vehicle and found no visible damage present. Mrs 
A said given there was no damage visibly present to her car, she thought this demonstrated 
there was no damage on the third party's vehicle either. CIS received further evidence from 
the third party insurer. It asked its own engineer to consider whether the damage reported 
was consistent with the claim. The engineer confirmed it was, and so CIS decided to settle 
the claim in full against Mrs A's policy. 
Mrs A complained to CIS about the way it handled things. She said CIS shouldn't have 
settled the third party claim because it was fraudulent, and so she wanted CIS to remove 
the fault claim marker from her record. 
CIS sent Mrs A its final response in September 2019. It said it considered all the evidence 
and decided to settle the claim in full against her based on this. It also apologised and 
offered to pay Mrs A £50 for failing to communicate that the claim had been settled. Mrs A 
remained unhappy so she brought a complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator looked into everything but didn't think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said the policy enables CIS to decide to defend or settle any claim on behalf of Mrs A under 
the policy. Having considered the information, he didn't think CIS had applied the policy 
terms unfairly, and therefore didn't think CIS needed to do anything else. As Mrs A 
disagreed, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs A, I agree with our investigator's view for broadly similar reasons. I'll now 
explain why. 
There's no issue taken that Mrs A's vehicle impacted the third party's vehicle. Mrs A accepts 
that she collided with the third party whilst reversing out of a parking space, and that the third 
party was stationary at the time. What is in dispute here is whether damage was caused as a 
result of the impact that Mrs A argues was minimal. 
It's important to now refer to the terms and conditions of the policy which say that 'We are 
entitled under this policy to; Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim 
in your name or in the name of any other person insured by your policy'. This can be found 
on page 21 under 'Accidents and claims'. 
This means that CIS is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesn't need 
Mrs A's approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a third 
party. CIS also isn't obliged to take a case to court even if the policyholder would like it to do 
so. CIS is entitled to consider the evidence presented to it and also the economics of 
proceeding to defend the case and the potential costs and risks involved. 
This is a common term across most policies I've seen. And whilst we agree this term is fair in 
principle, an insurer needs to demonstrate that it's applied the term fairly and reasonably. 
And in this case, I think CIS has. 
Once Mrs A became aware of the third party's insurer's intention to make a claim against her 
policy, she contacted CIS to say she thought that the third party was making a fraudulent 
claim. CIS therefore appointed an engineer to look at Mrs A's car and confirmed that no 
visible damage was present. Mrs A argued this evidenced that also no damage had been 
sustained to the third party's vehicle. But I don't agree here, as just because there's no 
damage to one vehicle involved, that doesn't mean the other vehicle also didn't sustain any 
visible or non-visible damage. 
Following the information about the lack of visible damage to Mrs A's vehicle, and the 
discrepancy about whether the third party was claiming for damage to the front or the rear of 
the car, CIS requested further information from the third party's insurer. 
CIS later received information from the third party's insurer. It received a copy of the images 
taken of the damage, and also the scope and costs of work to repair. CIS considered this 
and its own engineer said that 'I have reviewed the third party's repair documents and 
images. I can confirm that the damage listed matches the damage evident in the 
images.' The review then goes onto say '...total repair costs @ £2987.14 appears to be fair 
and reasonable.' With this in mind, I'm satisfied CIS considered the evidence presented by 
the third party insurer and agreed to settle the claim against Mrs A's policy in full. And I have 
no reason to doubt the opinion of the expert engineer here. 
I note CIS did also attempt to retrieve CCTV footage of the incident, but unfortunately this 
wasn't available. However, given Mrs A doesn't dispute an impact between her vehicle and 
the third party vehicle, I'm not sure what the CCTV would've established in this case. 
CCTV can be commonly used to determine what happened and which party was more likely 
at fault. However, Mrs A has accepted she was at fault here in any event.
I sympathise with Mrs A's position here and have seen how passionately she's argued that 
no visible damage was caused to the third party vehicle following the impact. However, with 
the above policy term in mind, I'm not in agreement with her that CIS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by investigating the third party's claim, and deciding to pay the claim in full 
against Mrs A's policy. As an incident did occur, Mrs A would've also been required to notify CIS of this under the policy and CIS would've been obliged to record this. I note Mrs A 
accepts she was at fault for the incident as she said she caused the impact when performing 
a reversing manoeuvre whilst the third party's vehicle was stationary. 
Therefore, and to summarise, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs A, I'm not in 
agreement that CIS has acted unfairly or unreasonably here, for the reasons set out above. 
CIS was able under the policy to investigate, and decide to defend or settle the claim. I'm 
satisfied it took reasonable steps to validate the claim. And so, I won't be requiring CIS to do 
anything else. 
I note that CIS didn't inform Mrs A that it decided to settle the claim against her. I accept it 
should've notified Mrs A sooner, but I don't think this has had any bearing on the outcome of 
the third party's claim. Therefore, I think CIS' offer of £50 to recognise the level of distress 
and inconvenience for the lack of communication is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman