DRN-3833682
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after falling victim to 
a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In May 2020 Mrs H was contacted via a well-known social media platform by someone 
who pretended to be a famous actor, but who actually turned out to be a scammer. The 
scammer spent a couple of months getting to know Mrs H and led her to believe they 
had a romantic connection. Over the next 18 months or so, the scammer persuaded 
Mrs H to part with more than £195,000, thinking she was helping him during a period of 
financial difficulty. The first disputed transactions were relatively low value and paid for 
digital gift cards, bought from high street shops, the codes for which she then shared 
with the scammer. A few payments were subsequently made to third parties. But the 
majority of the money was sent to crypto-wallets that the scammer instructed Mrs H to 
set up so that she could convert it into cryptocurrency and send it on to accounts he 
controlled.
Mrs H reported the scam to Monzo and it initially refused to reimburse her. It 
subsequently reimbursed £33,000 of the disputed payments in accordance with the 
provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code. Mrs H wasnt happy with this 
and so referred a complaint to us. Monzo then offered to pay her an additional £125 
compensation to recognise that it hadnt handled the complaint very well.
Our investigator thought Monzo should have done more to prevent the scam. But she 
also felt Mrs H was partly to blame. She recommended that Monzo refund 50% of 
Mrs Hs losses from 30 November 2020 plus interest (excluding any of the payments that 
the bank had already reimbursed). Mrs H accepted this proposal, but Monzo refused. So 
the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H doesnt dispute that she made all of the payments from her Monzo account. This 
means they were authorised by her. So the starting point under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mrs H is responsible for the 
payments as well as any resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Monzo should also be on the look-out for, and help to 
prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. It has also committed 
to reimbursing customers under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the Code). 
Transactions covered by the Code
Under the Code, Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams except in limited circumstances.
As set out above, Monzo has already accepted that Mrs H fell victim to an APP scam and 
refunded £33,000 of the money that Mrs H sent from her account. That represents 100% of 
the 5 faster payments she sent to 3 different recipients. And Monzo has made that award, it 
seems, because it considers Mrs H was vulnerable and unable to protect herself from falling 
victim to the scam. Im not entirely sure I agree with that assessment, but the reimbursement 
has already been made, so I dont intend on commenting further.
Im satisfied that none of the other payments Mrs H made as a result of this scam are 
covered by the provisions of the Code. But I have gone on to consider whether Monzo 
should refund any of them under the other principles that apply when a consumer has fallen 
victim to a scam.
Transactions not covered by the Code
Its not unusual these days to see this type of multi-step fraud where the scammer 
persuades the victim to set up their own cryptocurrency wallet, send money there, convert it 
to cryptocurrency and then send it on to the scammer. This technique is a deliberate one 
that scammers employ to help evade banks fraud detection and prevention systems. Thats 
what happened latterly in Mrs Hs case and it means the Code doesnt apply to any of the 
transactions that were used to buy cryptocurrency. But I dont think that means Monzo 
shouldnt be held liable for preventing at least some of Mrs Hs losses.
A balance must be struck between identifying payments that may indicate a customer is 
potentially at risk of financial harm  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  
and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. With this in mind, I agree with the 
investigator that the early transactions Mrs H made in favour of the scammer werent so 
unusual or out of character as to warrant intervention from Monzo. But, on 30 November 
2020, she received proceeds from a £3,000 loan into her account along with an £18,000 
transfer in from the joint account she held with her husband. She then sent £10,000 out to a 
new payee. Given the way Mrs H had operated her account historically I do think this activity 
was significantly unusual and of sufficiently large values that Monzo should have done more 
to check she wasnt falling victim to a scam. I have reached this conclusion despite Monzos 
assertions, including that this payment was within her daily spending limit.
Monzo also argues that Mrs H was so wrapped up in the scam that it wouldnt have been 
able to prevent her sending further money to the scammer. But I disagree. When reaching 
this conclusion I have had to make some assumptions but I think doing so is fair, in the 
circumstances. Had Monzo actually intervened, as I think it should have, I wouldnt have had 
to make these assumptions.
Mrs H tells us the scammer first contacted her in May 2020 and started asking her for 
financial help in July 2020. So, as Monzo points out, six months had passed by the point 
when I think it ought to have intervened. Monzo suggests that its customers tend to be 
secretive about what theyre paying for and are, often, unhelpful when it probes into the 
payment being made. But, from the correspondence Ive seen between Mrs H and the 
scammer, he didnt repeatedly tell her to lie to the bank or coached her to give misleading 
answers if the bank did ask questions. Mrs H firmly believed she was in a romantic 
relationship with a genuine actor who needed her financial support while he was undergoing 
some personal issues. I dont see why she wouldnt have disclosed at least some of this to Monzo if it had asked appropriate, relevant questions. I think the situation Mrs H would likely  
have described would have borne all, or enough, of the typical characteristics of romance 
scams such that Monzo should have had concerns. And so, with some further questioning 
and explanations about how romance scams tend to work, I think it could have broken the 
spell the scammer had woven and prevented any further losses.
When I say this Ive also taken into account that, in the days before 30 November 2020, 
there had been some relatively low value activity to and from Mrs Hs account and a couple 
of cryptocurrency platforms. And Mrs H had contacted Monzo via the in-app chat at one 
point because she was having difficulty making payments to one of them. Monzo also 
instigated an in-app chat with Mrs H on 20 February 2021 relating to some recent payments 
to a different cryptocurrency platform and advising that Theres a lot of scams around 
involving [a particular cryptocurrency] at the moment. Mrs H confirmed her payments were 
genuine and theres no dispute that she did manage to buy cryptocurrency and send it to the 
scammer. But the important point to note is that there was cryptocurrency activity on Mrs Hs 
account preceding the 30 November 2020 activity and Monzo recognised that 
cryptocurrency purchases were a common feature of scams in February 2021. I think it 
probably had this knowledge for some time prior to that including, potentially, three months 
earlier in November 2020. Yet it didnt explain during any earlier conversations or during the 
February 2021 conversation what a scam involving cryptocurrency might actually look like 
including that it could be used in a romance scam. So I can well understand why this later 
intervention by Monzo didnt stop Mrs H from sending more money to the scammer by way 
of cryptocurrency. But I dont think that means better intervention in November 2020 wouldnt 
have been successful in preventing the scam from proceeding further.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs H is partly to blame for her losses, which might justify a 
reduction in compensation. And overall, I think she was. I think Mrs H too readily accepted 
that the person whod contacted her was who he claimed to be. And the situations he 
described for needing to borrow money  including that all his assets had been frozen while 
an entirely unpublicised court case was decided  was highly implausible. Mrs H has shared 
some of the messages she exchanged with the scammer and there were times when she 
became frustrated with his demands for money and seems to have had doubts that he 
actually was who he claimed to be. Yet this didnt prompt her to seek any additional 
verification. I appreciate Mrs H had been through some difficult personal circumstances in 
the months leading up to the scam, but Im not persuaded these entirely excuse her 
decision-making. In all the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that compensation 
should be reduced by 50%. The investigator reached the same conclusion and I note Mrs H 
has already accepted this.
Monzos recovery attempts 
Where money has been lost to a scam such as in this case, I would usually expect Monzo to 
make reasonable attempts to recover the money after being notified about the scam. 
With this in mind, Monzo doesnt seem to have contacted any of the banks that received 
Mrs Hs transfers or attempted to chargeback any of the card payments. But, as far as I can 
see, all of the card payments and transfers that havent already been refunded in full were 
used to buy digital gift cards or cryptocurrency. So, in effect, Mrs H got what she paid for but 
then sent those goods on to the scammer. In that situation I dont think its likely Monzo 
wouldve been able to recover any of her money even if it had tried to do so.
Monzos complaint-handling
When it submitted its file to this service, Monzo offered £125 compensation to Mrs H to 
recognise that it hadnt progressed her complaint promptly, didnt address the concerns shed raised about the service it had provided and to apologise for the mistakes it had made. 
In particular, Monzo notes that it sent a final response to Mrs H, declining her claim for 
reimbursement despite the fact that it had not yet completed its investigation. This meant it 
didnt properly explain why it wouldnt refund the money Mrs H had lost to the scam.
Having considered everything thats been said and provided, I agree with Monzo that it 
handled this case poorly and that likely caused some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience to Mrs H. But, in all the circumstances, I think Monzos offer is fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
When deciding how Monzo should put things right Ive taken into account that:
Mrs H has confirmed that the 3 transfers made into her account between 11 August and 
17 September 2021, and totalling £2,380, was not money to which she was entitled. She 
received these payments from unknown third parties after being asked to do so by the 
scammer, and all of this money was eventually used to buy cryptocurrency which she 
then sent on to the scammer. As this was not her own money and it has not been 
returned to the senders, I dont think its fair to expect Monzo to refund this money to her. 
I explain below how to take the £2,380 into account in Mrs Hs compensation calculation.
The investigator said interest on the refunded money should be calculated based on the 
originating account rate. But the money Mrs H lost to the scammer originated from 
various sources  a loan from another provider, her Monzo savings pot, funds borrowed 
from her husband (she told him she was buying property) and some inherited funds. It 
seems unlikely she would have taken out the loan if Monzo had prevented her from 
falling victim to the scam from 30 November 2020 onwards. But she might still have 
borrowed the money from her husband to actually invest in property. And, similarly, shed 
likely have done something different with her inheritance. But, as the money was lost to 
the scam and hasnt yet been returned its not possible for me to know with sufficient 
confidence what that likely would have been. What is clear is that Mrs H has been 
deprived of money and has had to repay the loan. In all the circumstances, I think the 
most pragmatic way to compensate her is to award 8% per year simple interest on the 
refund. I think, overall, this will result in a fair amount of compensation.
So, if Mrs H accepts my final decision then Monzo Bank Ltd should:
Calculate the total sum Mrs H lost to the scammer from 30 November 2020 onwards and 
deduct £2,380 as well as any payments that occurred after that date which have already 
been refunded. Refund 50% of the resulting figure to Mrs H.
Add interest on the above refund at 8% per year simple calculated from the date each 
payment left Mrs Hs Monzo account to the date of settlement. 
Pay the additional £125 compensation Monzo offered when it sent us its file, if it hasnt 
already done so.
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to settle 
the matter as set out above.
Monzo Bank Ltd should settle the complaint within 28 days of receiving notification of 
Mrs Hs acceptance of my final decision.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman