DRN-3767853
The complaint
Mrs S complains TenetLime Ltd (TenetLime) didnt let the provider of her two protection 
policies know she had agreed to pay a higher premium, which meant the sum assured was 
reduced. Mrs S also complains about the communication from TenetLime. 
What happened
Protect Line Ltd (Protect Line) set up two term protection policies for Mrs S on a non-advised 
basis. TenetLime take responsibility for the actions of Protect Line. 
 
After medical underwriting by the provider of the policies, Mrs S needed to pay more to keep 
the requested sum assured for the policies. She became confused about what policies she 
had and whether she had the cover in place she initially wanted. So, she complained. 
TenetLime responded to the complaint and offered £50 compensation. They accepted Mrs S 
had been provided with confusing information and her agreement to increase the premiums 
hadnt been communicated to the provider. 
Mrs S didnt accept this and asked us to investigate. Our Investigator recommended 
TenetLime pay Mrs S a total of £150 compensation. TenetLime accepted our Investigators 
recommendation. However, Mrs S didnt accept the view and her representative set out the 
reasons why. Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Protect Line provided two separate quotes for term protection policies in letters sent on 
10 December 2020. They quoted for: 
- Life insurance: sum assured of £175,000 for a term of 50 years and a premium of 
£20.49. 
- Life insurance with critical illness: sum assured of £43,000 for a term of 40 years and 
a premium of £32.75. 
TenetLime have explained the provider reviewed the medical information and needed to 
increase the premiums on the policies to maintain the sum assured requested. The provider 
has also confirmed this. 
Mrs S discussed the premium increases with Protect Line over the phone in June 2021. 
However, TenetLime have accepted the information provided was confusing and Mrs Ss 
agreement to pay the increased premium amount wasnt passed on to the provider.
Having considered this, I agree the service fell below the standard Mrs S could expect here. 
This had an emotional impact and caused further inconvenience. Ive also reviewed 
TenetLimes final response letter, and I note they caused additional confusion. For example, 
when they referred to a different provider. This meant Mrs S was further frustrated and more 
time was spent on the matter. 
Mrs Ss representative has provided screenshots from the providers platform for the life 
insurance policy and the life insurance with critical illness policy. Im satisfied this is in line 
with what Mrs S took out through Protect Line and the service issues havent impacted the 
level of cover Mrs S now has. 
In response to the view, Mrs Ss representative explained the details still dont add up. 
Having considered this, it seems the sum assured and premiums have increased further 
because the policies are index linked. Ive seen this was stated in the initial quotes provided 
by Protect Line and has also been explained by the provider. This means the sum assured 
and premiums for the policies are reviewed and increased in line with inflation. Nevertheless, 
I can appreciate how the unclear information has contributed to Mrs Ss confusion about the 
policies she has in place. 
Overall, I agree the service fell below a reasonable standard as Mrs S was given confusing 
information and the provider wasnt informed Mrs S had agreed to the increased premiums. 
However, the policy information provided seems to indicate the cover now in place is in line 
with what Mrs S initially wanted to take out.
 
Putting things right
TenetLime should pay Mrs S £150 compensation to recognise the emotional impact of the 
service they provided. Mrs Ss representative has said this isnt sufficient to recognise the 
emotional impact and the time spent on this matter.
 
I want to provide assurance that Ive carefully considered everything which has been said 
about the impact. Having done so, Im satisfied £150 compensation appropriately recognises 
the impact caused by the service failings identified. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and TenetLime Ltd should pay Mrs S a total of £150 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman