DRN-4154010
The complaint
Miss H complained about Admirals service in connection with her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Hs motor insurance required her to use a telematics device( the device) in her car. 
When she cancelled her policy, she had to return that device. Miss H wanted to be able to 
prove that she had posted it, so she wouldnt be charged if Admiral didnt receive it.  So she 
didnt want to use the freepost address Admiral gave her and wanted a full postal return 
address. She said that despite her asking Admiral for that numerous times over a few 
months, Admiral didnt give her that return address or labels. They then charged her a £50 
hardware charge for not returning the device and instructed debt collectors to recover the 
charge from her. She thought theyd given her poor service.   
Admiral said the £50 charge remained due as per their policy terms. They said theyd made 
it clear how and where she could return the device and extended the time for her to do that , 
and they had followed the correct procedures. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Admiral had treated Miss H  
fairly. Miss H didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Miss Hs policy and the information document that Admiral gave her about the 
telematics device. They say that if a policyholder cancels their policy before the end of the 
policy term or Admiral have asked for its return, the policyholder must return the telematics 
device or Admiral can charge a hardware charge of £50. The policy says the device should 
be returned in the prepaid envelope sent with the original packaging but if a policyholder no 
longer has those, they could return it to a stated postal address. In that case the policyholder 
would be liable for the postage costs, and should obtain proof of postage, as they would be 
responsible for any loss or damage to the device.
Miss H said her original packaging didnt come with a prepaid envelope, she couldnt access 
the policy documentation once the policy was cancelled, and that Admiral only gave her a 
freepost address. The post office wouldnt give her proof of postage to a freepost address, 
so she didnt trust sending the device there and wanted Admiral to give her a full postal 
address. She said that Admiral never sent her that address or any prepaid address label 
despite her requests. 
Admiral said they had included the prepaid label with the packaging when they issued the 
device. Miss H said she didnt receive that. However I dont think thats crucial here. Admiral 
have shown us that they asked Miss H to return the device several times from 12 December 
onwards and did give her the full return postal address by email then and again on 10 
January 2023. They confirm they sent her returns label In December and February. Miss H  
said she didnt receive these. While Ive no reason to disbelieve that, Admiral are adamant 
that they were sent and to her correct address, so it doesnt take the situation any further. 
I do see that Miss H feels that she had done the correct thing to wait until she had a full 
postal address so she could get proof of postage to protect her if it the device was lost in 
transit. But Admiral have shown us that they gave her the full postal address and also tried 
to reassure her that she should send it to the freepost address. I think that Admiral over 
several months gave Miss H alternative options to return the telematics device and extended 
the time for her to do so. This was fair of them. I can also see that on 24 March Admiral 
offered Miss H that, if she returned the device by freepost and told them shed done so, they 
wouldnt charge her the £50 fee even if they then didnt then receive the device. Miss H still 
didnt return the device. 
In these circumstances I think that Admiral have acted reasonably and fairly and I dont 
require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
