DRN-1613584
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about damage to his home during works carried out by Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) as part of a claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr H had a fire at his home. RSA accepted the claim and appointed a 
contractor to clean up the property.
In April 2018, Mr H gave the contractor access to his home and went away for a few days 
while the clean up took place. When Mr H returned home, he found new damage to his 
property. A radiator had leaked, the bottom step of his stairs was damaged, another step 
was split, the architrave to a door was pulled off the wall and staples from the carpet had 
been left on every step.
Mr H contacted the contractor to explain the problems he had identified, but no action was 
taken. As a result, in early June 2018, Mr H contacted RSA to explain the damage he had 
found and that the contractor had done nothing to deal with it. 
In early July 2018, the contractor reviewed the damage and told Mr H it wasnt caused 
during the clean up. Mr H didnt agree. After some discussion, the contractor said it would 
arrange for a carpenter to fix the stairs. Mr H said he would fix the radiator himself.
No further action was taken by the contractor and a carpenter didnt visit. Mr H followed this 
up. The contractor then asked Mr H to prove it had caused the damage, as it now thought 
the damage to the stairs was wear and tear and that the radiator was already damaged 
before it started the work. It offered £100 as a goodwill gesture.
When Mr H raised his concerns about the contractor, a new company was asked to assess 
the damage. Based on the new contractors report, he was given the benefit of the doubt that 
the original contractor had damaged the stairs. Mr H was offered £100 as a goodwill gesture, 
which was in addition to the £100 that the original contractor had already offered. The stairs 
were also repaired.
Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He decided that RSA 
could have done more to resolve the issues raised by Mr H. The investigator said that RSA 
should pay Mr H £800 for the trouble and upset he experienced, £1,050 for accommodation 
costs while he stayed away from his home and, if he could evidence the costs, about £1,260 
for his travel costs given he had to live elsewhere.
RSA agreed to pay the £1,850 for the trouble and upset and accommodation, but would not 
pay any travel costs without seeing evidence of what Mr H had spent. Mr H said that he 
would be willing to accept the full amount recommended by the investigator to bring the 
issue to an end, but he didnt want to provide RSA with his bank statements, which was the 
evidence he would need to provide to show his travel costs.
As the parties didnt agree, Mr H asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue I need to consider is whether I think RSAs contractor damaged Mr Hs 
property. The stairs seem to be the most substantial issue. A contractor who looked at the 
stairs said It looks to us that the stair damage has occurred in the process of removing the 
stair carpet. Mr H was also sent an email confirming this. On that basis, I am satisfied that 
the stairs were damaged when the carpet was removed.
For the radiator, the contractor noted that there was a leak when it started its work. I am not 
clear though whether the contractor caused the issue or only found it. Nonetheless, I am 
concerned that the contractor didnt tell Mr H about the leak, even if it hadnt caused the 
problem, particularly as it knew he was away. It is my view that it should either have fixed the 
issue or let Mr H know, so that he could take action.
For the architrave, one of the contractor reports says that it could be repaired with a couple 
of nails. This suggests there was an issue with it, but I dont know when or how that 
happened. Given the other damage to the stairs, I am currently of the view that that it is 
more likely that it did happen during the works. I note that Mr H repaired this damage 
himself.
Ive also thought about how long it took for the damage to be repaired. Mr H promptly 
contacted the contractor to report the damage he thought it had caused. However, despite 
regular chasing, it didnt take any action. The contractor inspected the damage in early July 
2018, nearly 12 weeks later. The report from that visit said carpenter to be appointed to 
advise what can be done. This didnt happen. Mr H kept chasing to get it resolved and he 
was then told that the contractor had now changed its mind and thought the damage was 
due to wear and tear. A new company was then appointed who visited Mr Hs house in 
November 2018. It was then agreed that RSA would repair the stairs. It took about seven 
months to reach this point. This is an entirely unreasonable amount of time for it to have 
taken and I can completely understand the upset and frustration that Mr H felt.
I also need to consider whether the damage made Mr Hs house uninhabitable. Mr H said 
that the condition the stairs were left in meant that he and his son were not safe living there. 
When the new contractor assessed the stairs, it didnt make any finding one way or the other 
on this point in its report. RSA interpreted this as meaning that the stairs were safe because 
contractors have a health and safety duty. 
However, while our investigator was dealing with the case Mr H explained that he had been 
told by the original contractor that the whole bottom section of the staircase might need to be 
dismantled and re-fixed. Mr H also said that another contractor appointed by RSA, which 
assessed the damage at a later point, told him that in its opinion the staircase was left in an 
unsafe state. When our investigator put these, and other points, to RSA it agreed to pay his 
accommodation costs of £1050 and, subject to seeing evidence of them, his travel costs. 
Having thought about this, I am satisfied that that there was sufficient reason for Mr H to 
believe that his home was unsafe and that this resulted in him moving out of his house and 
that this can be attributed to the actions of RSA's contractors.
Mr H has said that he thinks that in addition to the accommodation and travel costs, he 
should also be reimbursed for the child maintenance costs he had to pay as a result of his 
son moving in with his mother and for the time that he had to take off work to resolve the 
claim issues.Ive thought about this carefully. Although I can understand that Mr H thinks that the child 
support payments should be reimbursed to him, there are often a range of factors that go 
into deciding issues around where a child should live and any payments required as a result. 
I think it is therefore difficult to directly and solely attribute that to the actions of an insurer. I 
therefore dont think that RSA needs to cover these costs.
In terms of the time that Mr H had to take off work to deal with issues, I think that this is part 
of the overall disruption caused by the way that the claim was handled and how long it took 
to resolve and Ive therefore taken this into account in my consideration of the amount of 
compensation that RSA should pay for the disruption caused.
Putting things right
Having thought about all of the above, I think that the claim could have been resolved much 
more quickly and that it caused considerable disruption to Mr H. As a result, I think that RSA 
should pay Mr H £800 compensation for the amount of time it took to resolve his claim and 
the disruption caused by the delays in it being resolved. As Mr H has already been offered 
£200 in compensation, this means that RSA should pay an additional £600 to total £800. 
RSA should also pay £1050 for the accommodation costs and, if Mr H provides evidence of 
it, the cost of his travel from his accommodation to his home during the period of the claim.
I am aware that Mr H has previously said that he was only willing to provide his bank 
statements to show his travel costs if RSA was willing to share its claim file. However, I am 
not putting that requirement on RSA and it is, of course, Mr Hs decision whether he wants to 
provide the evidence to show his travel costs in order for them to be reimbursed.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, my final decision is that the complaint is upheld and that Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required to:
Pay Mr H £800 compensation.
Pay Mr H £1050 for his accommodation costs.
Pay Mr Hs travel costs, subject to him providing RSA with evidence of these.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman