DRN-3284347
The complaint
Mr R complains about the maturity value of his savings plan. The complaint has been 
brought against Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly).
Mr R is being represented on this complaint by his father, but for ease of reference, Ill refer 
to any submissions as being made by Mr R personally.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr R contacted Scottish Friendly about the status of his child savings 
plan. The account had been opened in November 2009 by his fathers previous employer, 
but theyd lost contact over the years.
In February 2021, Scottish Friendly informed Mr R that the policy had matured with a value 
of £2,361.29. After what was a period of delay, Scottish Friendly issued a cheque for the 
maturity value but this sum - £1,549.03 differed to what had been previously stated. Scottish 
Friendly agreed it had sent a cheque for the wrong amount, but it claimed only a further £180 
was due to so Mr R complained.
In response Scottish Friendly said it had made an error when providing the initial maturity 
estimate  it had failed to account that not all payments had been made so no further 
bonuses were due on the plan. But, Scottish Friendly apologised for the shortfall in its 
service and paid a total of £314.86 compensation (this includes the £180 it paid later) - 
£298.48 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R in addition to missed interest 
totalling £16.38.
Unhappy that Scottish Friendly wouldnt honour paying the initial maturity value, Mr R 
referred the complaint this service. Our investigator, while acknowledging the impact that 
Scottish Friendlys failures had caused, said that the offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr R disagreed. He says Scottish Friendly has a duty of care to educate young people on 
financial matters. Its failure has had a lasting impact on him which needs to be considered 
so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Mr R will be disappointed, I agree with what our investigator 
said, for broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr R has found this a frustrating experience. Scottish Friendly issued a letter for 
the incorrect maturity value, then caused further delays in issuing the cheque followed by it 
being for the wrong amount. The breakdown in communication and mistake meant Mr R 
expected a lot more than hed been paid. Mr R asks that the business now pay him the 
difference between what hes received and the higher value it quoted in February 2021.
Ive considered whether anything further is due on the plan, but having reviewed the 
payments that were made, its clear they ceased around 14 months earlier than due, 
resulting in no further bonuses being payable. This meant the plan was worth around £1,700 
which is the sum thats now been paid. So, whilst I acknowledge the error on part of the 
business, it wouldnt be fair to award Mr R the difference as his plan was never worth the 
incorrect value quoted.
However, I have considered whether Mr R has suffered any other financial losses as a result 
of the error. As Ive set out above, there was a slight delay to the initial cheque being issued 
and that this too wasnt for the correct amount. This meant Mr R lost out on additional 
interest payments he could have accrued had the cheque been sent out correctly. Financial 
loss like this is fairly straightforward to put right  and Im satisfied Scottish Friendly has 
done this here by paying A the missed interest.
Mr R says Scottish Friendlys mistake has had a lasting impact. I recognise the frustration 
and disappointment that he may have felt  I can see hed been put to more trouble than he 
expected. So, my task now is to decide what represents fair compensation for that failure of 
service.
When considering compensation payments my role is to ensure that businesses put the 
customer back into the position, they would have been prior to the mistake being made. 
While Mr R may not agree, its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when 
mistakes occur, instead they are seen to apologise and pay appropriate compensation for 
any inconvenience caused to him. I am satisfied the level of compensation is proportionate, 
as a total of £298.48 in compensation has been paid by Scottish Friendly.
I understand that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I think Scottish Friendly has 
taken reasonable steps to deal fairly with his complaint.
Your text here
My final decision
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited has already paid £298.48 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and £16.38 for missed interest. As such, Im not upholding this 
complaint or asking Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to award any further 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman