DRN-4126820
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, have been
calculating the minimum payment amounts on her credit account incorrectly.
What happened
Mrs M became aware that Barclays have been calculating the minimum payment amounts
on her credit account incorrectly and felt that shed been paying more what should have
been the correct minimum monthly payments as a result. Mrs M wasnt happy about this, so
she raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mrs M and confirmed that they had been calculating Mrs Ms
minimum payment amounts incorrectly. Barclays apologised to Mrs M and made a payment
of £50 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred as a result.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Barclays response to Mrs
Ms complaint, including the payment of £50 compensation, was a fair resolution to what had
happened. Mrs M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 April 2023 as follows:
Mrs M contends that Barclays have been using an incorrect formula to determine the
minimum monthly payment on her credit account for some time. Specifically, Mrs M
contends that, as a pre-2010 customer, her minimum monthly payment should have 
been calculated as follows:
The highest of either £5.00 or
2.25% of the account balance or
0.10% of the account balance plus any interest and fees incurred that month.
Instead, Mrs M notes that Barclays have been calculating the minimum monthly 
payment for her account using the formula applicable to post-2010 customers, as 
follows:
The highest of either £5.00 or
2.25% of the account balance or
1.00% of the account balance plus any interest and fees incurred that month.
In their response to Mrs Ms complaint, Barclays appear to have confirmed that they 
have calculated the minimum payments using the incorrect formula for some time. I 
say this because, while Barclays note that letters were sent to pre-2010 customers in 
2020 which advised that the formula used to calculate the minimum monthly 
payments on their accounts would change to mirror that of post-2010 customers, 
they also note that Mrs Ms minimum payments were being calculated as if she were 
a post-2010 customer before those 2020 letters were sent. As such, it appears that 
Barclays were incorrectly treating Mrs M as a post-2010 customer, as she believes 
was the case.
However, Im not convinced that theres been any significant impact to Mrs M 
resulting from her being treated as a post-2010 customer, and there are three main 
reasons for this.
The first is that it wasnt the case that Mrs Ms minimum monthly payments were 
always calculated incorrectly. This is because the formulas for calculating minimum 
payments are conditional and contain three possible clauses. And because its only 
in one of those three clauses that theres any difference between how minimum 
monthly payment should be calculated.
For instance, looking at Mrs Ms historical account statements, the highest account 
balance Ive been able to find is £7,053.90 as of May 2019. So, taking the post-2010 
formula about which Mrs M here complains into account, the minimum payment 
should be the higher of:
£5.00
2.25% of the account balance = £158.71
1.00% of the account balance (£70.54) plus the interest and fees for that 
month (£83.50) = £154.04
So, in this instance, the highest of the three clauses was clause two - £158.71  and 
this was the minimum payment amount that was declared as being due on Mrs Ms 
account statement for that month.
Importantly, clause 2 would have remained the higher of the three clauses even had 
the pre-2010 formula been used  which would have resulted in a lower amount for 
clause three.
This means that regardless as to which of the two formulas was used in this instance, 
the minimum monthly payment declared on Mrs Ms statement would always have 
been the same. And so, Im satisfied that there will have been many months when 
Mrs Ms minimum payment would have been calculated correctly, even in 
consideration that the incorrect formula was used, because the minimum payment 
that resulted from either of those two formulas would have been the same.
Additionally, while there will have been instances where an incorrect minimum 
monthly payment will have been declared, because the applicable clause for that 
month was clause three, I dont feel that any overcharged amounts would have been 
significant  given the existence of clause two in both formulas.
Finally, it also must be noted that if Mrs M has paid more on occasion than she 
should have done, shes also benefited from having a lower account balance as a 
result, which in turn has incurred less interest, and which because it was a lower 
account balance has led to potentially lower minimum monthly payment calculations 
on that lower account balance for subsequent months.As such, while I accept that the wrong formula appears to have been applied by 
Barclays when calculating Mrs Ms minimum monthly payments, I dont feel that 
theres been any significant impact to Mrs M as a result.
Accordingly, I feel that the apology and the payment of £50 compensation by 
Barclays to Mrs M for what happened already represents a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint, and it follows from this that I wont be provisionally 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs M and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish to me consider before I moved to issue a 
final decision. Barclays confirmed that they had no further comments to provide, whereas 
Mrs M did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision whereby this complaint is not upheld 
on the basis explained above. And I confirm that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman