DRN-2115239
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has been pursuing him for an 
incorrect amount through a debt recovery company, following the sale of his property that left 
him with a shortfall.   
What happened
Mr S owned a property mortgaged through Halifax. In 2015 the property was repossessed. 
Over the years Mr S was making regular payments to reduce the outstanding shortfall 
amount.
In April 2018 the debt was passed to a new debt recovery company, who was pursuing Mr S 
for around £12,000. Mr S made several attempts to dispute the balance directly with the debt 
recovery company. In the meantime, he stopped making further payments towards the 
outstanding shortfall amount.
In early 2019 the debt recovery company provided Mr S with the correct figure of £4,470.69. 
Mr S doesnt feel that he should be liable for the debt. He says that had the issue been 
resolved sooner, he would have continued making payments and this debt would be cleared 
by now.
Later that year, Mr S complained to Halifax. He raised various concerns, as follows;
- Halifax went ahead with repossession despite him having the money to clear the 
arrears;
- He felt the property had been purchased underhandedly by the previous agents;
- He disputed the shortfall balance due; and
- Argued that because he paid an indemnity guarantee premium when taking the 
mortgage, he should not be liable for the shortfall as Halifax has already redeemed 
its costs. 
Halifax issued its final response in October 2019. 
- It said that Mr Ss complaint about the repossession process and initial shortfall has 
been brought out of time because the events occurred more than six years before 
Mr S made his complaint and its been more than three years since he ought to have 
reasonably been aware of the problem;
- It explained how the mortgage indemnity guarantee premium worked and why Mr S 
was still liable for the outstanding shortfall debt. It did not uphold this part of the 
complaint;
- It upheld Mr Ss complaint about the debt recovery company pursuing the wrong 
amount and sent him a cheque for £50 to compensate for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Soon after, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He accepted that we could only 
consider part of his complaint about events that occurred within six years of him making his 
complaint to Halifax. An investigator looked into things and felt Halifax should increase its 
compensation amount to £200. Halifax agreed, Mr S didnt. He doesnt feel this amount is 
enough. 
Because an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision will focus on the complaint raised by Mr S about being chased for the wrong 
outstanding shortfall amount. He accepts that the complaint about the repossession itself 
has been brought out of time and he has not told us that he wants us to further investigate 
the matter of the indemnity guarantee premium, following Halifaxs response.
The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. Halifax has admitted it got things wrong. 
It accepts responsibility for the actions of the debt recovery company who was acting as an 
agent of the bank, on its behalf. 
So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things Halifax has done to put things right, 
including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable. 
I think its right that Halifax should compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by chasing him for the wrong shortfall amount. However, I also think its important to 
explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish 
organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award 
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
I appreciate this matter is likely to have caused Mr S some degree of frustration and 
inconvenience, so I sympathise with his position. But I think the further £150 compensation 
that Halifax has agreed to pay following our investigators opinion is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr S says this matter has been ongoing for five years. But the debt was passed to the 
current debt recovery company in April 2018 and the correct balance was confirmed around 
a year later.
Mr S has not been financially disadvantaged by the delay as Halifax has confirmed that 
interest has not been added to the outstanding shortfall amount. Both parties agree that the 
correct outstanding amount is around £4,000 and this is money that is still owed to Halifax. 
Therefore, I cannot agree that the debt should be waived in light of the error.
Ive noted all the things Mr S has said about Halifax not agreeing to resolve this matter in 
court. Our service cannot direct a business to issue court proceedings. Mr S has chosen to 
pursue his complaint through our service. If he doesnt accept my decision, he may still be 
able to take the complaint to court.
Putting things right
I have decided that Barclays has been reasonable in its attempt to put things right. I think the 
compensation of £200 that has been offered to Mr S is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. So, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more.Mr S says that he has not cashed the cheque for £50 that was sent to him in October 2019. 
If thats the case, this should be cancelled and a new payment of £200 made to Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should pay Mr S the £200 
offered for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman