DRN-4304730
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
he made under a home and buildings insurance policy he shares jointly with Mrs C. 
Mr Cs daughter Mrs B is representing Mr C in his complaint. 
All reference to the insurer Acromas in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr C discovered water damage to his bathroom ceiling and in October 2022 he called 
Acromas. He had sought assistance from a leak detection company and they hadnt found 
any internal leaks to the property, but said the leak detection agent believed the water may 
be coming from the roof caused by storm damage. 
Acromas said it wouldnt consider Mr Cs claim for storm damage as no storm conditions 
occurred in the month up to when he called. It said Mr C would need to pay an excess as 
part of making a trace and access claim to identify the leak. Acromas said it could consider 
an accidental damage claim under the policy. Mr C didnt agree to pay the excess and so in 
January 2023 the claim was closed. 
In February 2023 Mrs B contacted Acromas on behalf of Mr C and asked for the claim to be 
reopened, which Acromas did as the excess was paid. Acromas sent a leak detection 
company to Mr Cs home - and they reported that they couldnt identify any internal leaks. 
Mrs B was unhappy about this as she said shed asked for the roof to be inspected. Acromas 
agreed to arrange for a Surveyor to inspect the roof. 
Following the Surveyors report, Acromas declined the claim. It said that no storm conditions 
had occurred around the time Mr C said the damage occurred, so no insured event had 
happened. It said having arranged an inspection of the roof, the water ingress was due to a 
gradual decline of materials. 
Acromas said it could cover a claim for internal damage to the bathroom ceiling as 
accidental damage. For this it offered a cash settlement. 
Mrs B complained to Acromas. She said she was advised in a call that Acromas would 
arrange for an inspection of the roof, but would also refund the excess. Mrs B was unhappy 
as Acromas said it had reviewed the key call and the agent hadnt agreed to refund the 
excess. 
Acromas didnt uphold the complaint. So Mrs B asked us to look at Mr Cs complaint. She 
said Acromas didnt make it clear before the claim was made that it would only cover the 
internal damage under the accidental damage part of the policy. She said the damage is 
minimal and Mr C wouldnt have made a claim under the policy for it, had he been given 
clearer information. 
Mrs B says Acromas has failed to provide her with a recording of the key call, but has 
provided recordings of other calls she had with it. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs B didnt agree. 
I asked Acromas to provide a recording of the key call, which it did. Its clear the agent said 
she would ask if she could arrange for a refund of the excess. It wasnt confirmed that a 
refund would be given. A copy of the key call recording has been sent to Mrs B along with 
my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B says there are a number of inaccuracies which she wants to correct. I have 
summarised the relevant points below. 
Mr C didnt tell Acromas he initially thought the damage might have been caused by 
steam from the bath. She says Mr C hardly uses the main bathroom as he has an 
ensuite. 
This information is recorded in Acromas notes of a call Mr C made on 3 October 2022. In 
any event, it doesnt make a difference to the outcome. 
The leak detection agent appointed by Acromas referred to staining damage to the 
lounge ceiling. This is separate to Mr Cs enquiry. 
I agree. It was part of the leak detection agents report - but it doesnt make a difference to 
the outcome. 
It wasnt the first leak detection agent who advised Mr C there was a lead pipe 
leaking from the bathroom. Mrs B says it was Acromas that made this discovery. 
Acromas file notes show the following entry from a call with Mr C on 18 October 2022:
PH has advised it is a lead pipe in the bathroom ceiling that is leaking 
Its not clear to me how Acromas could have informed Mr C of the cause of damage at this 
stage as it didnt instruct a leak detection agent until March 2023. So I think on balance its 
more likely than not that Mr C gave Acromas this information. However, it doesnt change 
the outcome. 
Mr C hasnt been treated fairly by Acromas. Mrs B says it pursued a claim for an 
internal leak detection when it was asked to consider a claim for external roof issues.
This is the crux of the complaint. So Ive carefully considered what Acromas did when it was 
notified of damage to Mr Cs property and whether it acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
Insurers provide cover for specific insured events such as storm, flood or fire. These are 
sudden unforeseen events. Its reasonable to expect a property that is well maintained to 
withstand poor weather. 
Insurers dont provide cover for every eventuality, so it isnt unusual to find exclusions under 
an insurance policy for damage that occurs gradually or through wear and tear. 
Mrs B contacted Acromas in February 2023 as she wanted Acromas to re-open the claim. 
She says she wanted Acromas to arrange for Mr Cs roof to be inspected. 
Acromas agreed to re-open the claim on provision that Mr C paid the excess for a claim at 
£350. Acromas says it did this under the trace and access section of cover under the policy. 
Mrs B says she asked for the claim to be re-opened for Acromas to consider damage that 
was coming from the roof, as Mr C had already paid for a leak detection agent to find if the leak was coming from any pipes. She says Acromas didnt tell her any roof damage wouldnt 
be covered under the policy until after the excess was paid. 
I think there has been some confusion. I think Acromas reopened the claim for trace and 
access as it was originally set up - and so the excess of £350 applied for this. 
I agree with Mrs B that - if Acromas was clear that no storm conditions had occurred around 
the time Mr C noticed the damage - then it follows - and Acromas notes of its discussions 
with Mr C support this - Acromas would have declined a claim for storm damage to the roof 
irrespective of an inspection of it. 
However, as Mr C held accidental damage cover under the policy - and the damage being 
claimed for inside the property was reported as being caused by an escape of water, I cant 
say Acromas treated Mr C unfairly in asking for the excess to be paid in order to attempt to 
trace and access the source of the leak. 
I understand Mrs Bs comment that because the internal damage cash settlement is minimal, 
Mr C wouldnt have made a claim under the policy. But Acromas notes show that it 
discussed Mr Cs accidental damage cover with him on 3 October 2022 and 18 October 
2022. Acromas advised Mr C that it would not meet a claim for storm damage due to there 
being no evidence of storm conditions at the time the damage occurred. So it logged a claim 
for accidental damage. As Mr C didnt pay the excess, Acromas closed the claim in January 
2023. 
I appreciate that Mrs B is unhappy that Mr C paid an excess under the policy of £350 for a 
claim. From listening to the key call between Mrs B and Acromas, I think Mrs B believed that 
damage to the roof might have been caused by a storm, even if the damage wasnt 
immediately visible. As Ive said, I think it was reasonable for Acromas to have applied an 
excess, as Mrs B wanted Acromas to consider Mr Cs claim. 
The amount paid of £350 is the correct excess for the claim Acromas accepted. And 
Acromas has made a cash settlement offer for the internal damage. In order for an insurer to 
settle a claim for internal damage, it needs to be satisfied that the cause of the damage has 
been identified and put right - otherwise there will be ongoing damage.
Acromas offered as a goodwill gesture to provide a refund for the excess paid of £150, which 
Mrs B declined.  
As Acromas properly considered the claim when it was re-opened - and arranged for Mr Cs 
roof to be inspected in light of any confusion caused when it re-opened the claim - I think its 
offer to provide a partial refund of the excess paid is a fair outcome. 
Ive listened to the key call where Mrs B says Acromas agreed to refund the excess paid. 
This isnt what the agent said she would do. Acromas agent said she would ask if she could 
arrange to get Mr Cs excess back and asked Mrs B to call back in a couple of days. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Acromas has done enough to resolve the complaint. It should 
provide a partial excess refund of £150 in line with its offer if Mr and Mrs C accept my final 
decision. 
Acromas Insurance Company Limited must pay the £150 within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs C accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman