DRN-3372681
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) have given her poor 
service and handled a claim under her home emergency cover.
What happened
Mrs G has a Homecare policy with British Gas that provides an annual service of her boiler 
and central heating, plus insurance cover for kitchen appliances and home emergencies.
In November 2020 Mrs G made arrangements for her boiler to have its annual service 
carried out by British Gas on 4 January 2021. British Gas did not turn up for the appointment 
or let Mrs G know. She re-made the appointment for 29 January 2021 but on 26 January her 
electricity failed when Mrs G switched a light on.
Mrs G contacted British Gas to ask for emergency assistance and was only able to listen to 
an answerphone message stating that she should call back at the end of February. The 
weather at the time was poor and Mrs G was unable to get outside for further help so she 
contacted a third party tradesman who fixed the problem and Mrs G paid him £170 to do so.
A British Gas engineer then attended unannounced in February to check whether Mrs G was 
happy with the work done by the third party tradesman. The British Gas engineer suggested 
that Mrs G should get the fuseboard moved lower so that she could access it if the problem 
happened again.
Mrs G complained to British Gas who refunded her the £170 she had paid the third party 
tradesman and an additional £40 compensation for her distress and inconvenience. British 
Gas point out that the terms of its policy states
Visiting you  Reasonable timescales 
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until 
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
A series of approximately eight appointments were then made between Mrs G and British 
Gas, and British Gas failed to attend most of them, sometimes with less than 30 minutes 
notice, sometimes with no notice at all. Some of these appointments were to carry out the 
annual service to Mrs Gs boiler and some were in respect of the fuseboard being moved.
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the case and said they thought British Gas had acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with its terms and conditions, so they didnt think British Gas needed to do anything more. 
British Gas agreed with our investigators view but Mrs G disagreed. Mrs G has asked for a 
refund of her premiums paid to British Gas and more compensation for the poor service she 
says she has had.
As Mrs G didnt agree with the view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
I want to assure Mrs G that Ive read and considered everything that both she and British 
Gas have said when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points raised as Ive 
focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case.
I have written above about moving a fuseboard which Mrs G has told me took place in late 
June 2021. This part of British Gas work can be called a chargeable service, and as such it 
doesnt fall under the remit of this service. If Mrs G wishes to make a complaint about the 
fuseboard then she should complain to the appropriate service which is Utilities ADR.
Mrs G has expressed her disappointment with British Gas service as a long standing 
customer of theirs. Mrs G has told us that she decided to cancel her cover with British Gas 
since she approached this service as she said she felt like she was getting no service for 
£72 per month. British Gas have since offered Mrs G a discount to keep her cover but have 
overcharged her from what it said the cover would cost. I understand that Mrs G has 
engaged with British Gas and that an appropriate refund has been made to her.
I also understand that Mrs Gs boiler was serviced by British Gas on 16 December 2021 
under the terms of the contract.
Mrs G has provided this service with detailed lists of British Gas missed appointments and 
her frustration is very real. There are 16 examples of missed or failed appointments in one 
year, some for chargeable work, some for routine work. 
The emergency Mrs G had in January 2021 was one needing urgent help. Her situation was 
one of failure of her electrical system when the weather was icy outside. She could not 
access her computer or home phone as both need electricity to operate and felt she could 
not go round to her neighbours due to the icy conditions. Mrs G is a vulnerable customer and 
for her to contact British Gas and listen to a message saying she should call back in several 
weeks time is very poor service. 
I note that British Gas have refunded the £170 paid by Mrs G to the third party tradesman 
she had to call out, but I do not think that £40 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience is enough. Mrs G paid a premium to give her peace of mind in emergency 
situations exactly like the one she found herself in and so for British Gas to fail to provide her 
with the service she urgently needed means that I think they should pay Mrs G additional 
compensation of £100. 
I am also minded that British Gas have not provided Mrs G with a service during 2020 as I 
can see from their job sheet that no visits were made to Mrs G during that year. Although 
2020 was badly affected by Covid, I dont think its fair and reasonable that Mrs G continued 
to pay her premiums and then British Gas failed to provide her with the key element of cover 
in an emergency situation. I am of the opinion that British Gas Services Limited should also 
refund Mrs Gs premium for the year of 2020 which is £864.21.
Response to my provisional decisionMrs G agreed with my provisional decision but British Gas didnt. It agreed to pay Mrs G an 
additional £100 compensation, but it didnt agree that it should refund her premium. It said 
that there are many aspects of the policy that are unrelated to Mrs Gs complaint and 
shouldnt be considered as part of the settlement. It said that The policy is in place should 
Mrs G have needed to call upon it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas responded to my provisional decision with some information about the cover Mrs 
G has purchased in 2019 but didnt tell me how theyd helped Mrs G during 2020-21. 
From the information I have, it seems to me that British Gas has failed to deliver the 
essential services it promised Mrs G for the entire policy year. Then in January 2021 it failed 
to help her, a vulnerable customer, when she needed it the most in an emergency situation. I 
mention above that British Gas said The policy is in place should Mrs G have needed to call 
upon it, but the evidence British Gas supplied to this service does not support that 
statement.
The evidence I have shows me British Gas service to Mrs G has fallen far short of what they 
promised and the further evidence it has supplied does not change my thinking about my 
decision.
Mrs G has written to me and has said how lovely she finds British Gas engineers when they 
attend her house to service her boiler and I am pleased about that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct British 
Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs G additional compensation of £100 for her distress and inconvenience
Refund Mrs Gs 2020 premium of £864.21
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman