DRN-3713987
The complaint
Ms B complains because Aviva Insurance Limited has refused to pay a claim under her 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms B holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by Aviva. The policy was 
underwritten on a continued medical exclusions basis and Ms Bs policy schedule with 
Aviva says the following: 
Medical Exclusions 
Any recognised related conditions or complications including any recognised 
complications of treatment(s) arising from: 
 
Dizzy spells. 
In October 2021, Ms B made a claim under her policy with Aviva for investigations into dizzy 
spells. Aviva said the claim wasnt covered because of the above exclusion on Ms Bs policy. 
Ms B complained to Aviva and provided further medical evidence. Aviva reviewed the 
evidence but maintained its decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Ms B brought the matter 
to the attention of our service. 
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Avivas 
decision to decline the claim was incorrect. Ms B didnt agree with our Investigators 
conclusions, so the complaint was referred to me. 
I made my provisional decision about Ms Bs complaint in August 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when making my provisional decision about Ms Bs complaint. 
Our Investigator, in reaching her findings, quoted the exclusion relating to dizzy spells which 
applied to a previous private medical insurance policy held by Ms B with a different insurer. 
That exclusion isnt relevant to Ms Bs claim. What is relevant is the exclusion which Ive 
quoted above, which applies to Ms Bs contract with Aviva under which she made this claim. 
The exclusion under Ms Bs policy with Aviva means that no cover is provided for any 
conditions or complications arising from dizzy spells (amongst other things). The medical 
evidence (namely, the letter from Ms Bs consultant who Ill refer to as Dr N, dated 27 
October 2021) says that Ms B was seen for a sudden onset dizzy spell. Dr N went on to say 
he was not certain as to the cause of these dizzy spells and, therefore, recommended 
further investigations. Ms B was subsequently diagnosed with moderate cerebrovascular 
disease. 
I appreciate that Ms Bs dizzy spells were a symptom of the condition she was ultimately 
diagnosed with, rather than being a condition in themselves. But, on a strict application of 
the relevant policy exclusion, I dont think Ms Bs claim is covered. 
However, my remit is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
a case. And, I dont think that a strict application of the relevant policy exclusion to Ms Bs 
claim results in a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
Ive considered the purpose and intention of the relevant policy exclusion applied by Aviva. I 
think this is to limit Avivas exposure to risk by excluding claims relating to any of Ms Bs pre-
existing medical conditions  including dizzy spells. But, based on the medical evidence 
available to me, I dont think this claim did relate to Ms Bs pre-existing dizzy spells. 
Aviva doesnt appear to have requested Ms Bs medical records, made any enquiries about 
or given any consideration to the previous investigations that Ms B underwent for dizzy 
spells which led to the application of the exclusion of Ms Bs policy. So, Ive considered the 
medical evidence which has been provided by Ms B on this point. 
Dr Ns letter dated 27 October 2021 says that Ms Bs: 
past history includes 2 episodes where she had unconscious spells but these were 
investigated thoroughly and were put down to simple faints at the time. 
A medical certificate from Ms Bs GP dated 6 December 2021 says: 
I understand [Ms B] had an exclusion on her insurance policy for dizzy spells 
following a fainting episode which was well investigated by a consultant cardiologist 
in 2018. It is of [sic] my opinion that this episode was entirely unrelated to her recent 
diagnosis 
A letter from another consultant (who Ill call Dr D) dated 5 January 2022 says: 
when I first met you in 2006 you had some funny episodes after eating  where 
you actually fainted and you had another episode  and a third one afterwards. 
We investigated you thoroughly with echocardiography and Holter monitoring. Your 
echocardiogram showed a normal heart. The Holter monitor showed just a few 
ectopic beats which are of no significance. When I reviewed you in 2018 you had no 
more of these funny episodes. 
 
dizziness is not a diagnosis it is a symptom. In my opinion there is absolutely no 
connection between what happened to you 15 years ago and the stroke for which [Dr 
N] is treating you now. In my view this is a completely separate and new 
phenomenon. 
I think this medical evidence is persuasive in concluding that Ms Bs previous dizzy spells in 
2006 and/or 2018 were unrelated to the stroke which Ms B was diagnosed with in 2021. I 
dont think the intention of the exclusion on Ms Bs policy was to exclude cover for strokes. 
So, I currently think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to accept Ms Bs claim.
Ms B accepted my provisional findings and said she had nothing further to add. Aviva replied 
and commented on a number of issues  including the basis on which its policies with continued medical exclusions work, and information set out in a letter written by Dr N dated 
21 November 2021. However, Aviva said it appreciated why I intended to uphold Ms Bs 
complaint and that it would fully comply with any such decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the additional points raised by Aviva but, as Aviva has acknowledged, 
there is no medical evidence linking Ms Bs stroke to her previous fainting episodes and 
dizzy spells. 
I therefore see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited needs to put things right by accepting Ms Bs claim. 
Aviva Insurance Limited should add interest to Ms Bs claim payment at 8% simple per 
annum from the date of her claim until the date the settlement is paid1. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Ms B how much it has taken off. It should also give Ms B a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 