DRN-3632516
The complaint
A limited liability partnership, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Ageas Insurance Limited      
unfairly declined a claim under their Commercial Guard  Commercial Choice business 
insurance policy. 
Mr T, one of the partners of G, brings the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G contacted Ageas to make a claim for business interruption after it was impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
G held the policy with Ageas for a number of years. The policy terms changed when the 
policy was renewed in April 2020. 
Ageas refused the claim relying on the April 2020  April 2021 policy terms. Mr T pointed out 
that the claim related to losses arising during the period that the previous policy terms were 
in force, so the policy terms relevant to this claim are the ones in force from April 2019 to 
April 2020.
Ageas considered the claim under the correct policy terms (that applied before April 2020) 
but said the policy covered losses of a business due to an occurrence of a notifiable disease 
at the premises and not as a result of general restrictions or closure required by the 
Government. Ageas said there was no evidence of Covid-19 being present at Gs premises. 
Ageas also said that its decision on the claim was not affected by the outcome of the  
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption insurance test case in which the 
courts considered a sample of policy wordings and how they should respond to the 
pandemic. 
Ageas did, however, offer £100 compensation for dealing with the claim under the incorrect 
policy terms and its initial correspondence not setting out its position clearly enough. 
Mr T is very unhappy with Ageass response. He told Ageas that there had been several 
incidents of Covid-19 infection around and at the premises in the time leading up to the 
Government restrictions in March 2020.  Mr T says, he, his wife and his son all had bad 
chest infections in December 2019, which they now think was likely to have been Covid-19. 
They became ill not long after being at a function with his granddaughter who was in 
intensive care in December 2019 with Kawasaki disease, which is linked to Covid-19. A 
neighbour also had Covid-19 and was hospitalised. And finally, one of his engineers was 
hospitalised in mid-February 2020 with pneumonia and very low oxygen levels, which he 
says was likely to have been Covid-19. As testing was not available during these times there 
was no diagnosis of Covid-19 but the symptoms his engineer had is compelling evidence 
that there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Ageas maintained its refusal of the claim. It says there is no evidence of a diagnosis of 
Covid-19 for any of the people mentioned or evidence that it was present at the premises in 
the relevant period prior to the interruption.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not think the evidence established 
that there had been an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises and so did not recommend 
the complaint be upheld. 
Mr T does not accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions, 
which Ive summarised his main points below: 
There was no testing for Covid-19 in the UK when the engineer was admitted to 
hospital in mid-February 2020 but it has become apparent that Covid-19 was present 
in the UK from December 2019/January 2020. 
Ageass communications have been full of errors.
Ageas did not review the claim properly following the outcome of the test case, as the 
FCA had directed all insurers to do. 
He has tracked the FCA test case and believes Ageas deliberately failed to inform 
FCA of some of its potential claims, in order to avoid being one of the sample firms 
involved in the test case. 
Mr T has said this has had a devastating effect on his business, his personal life and his 
mental health. He has asked that the claim be met; that we impose the maximum penalty we 
can on Ageas; that it pay loss of income to him for the next ten years (due to the financial  
arrangements he had to make to keep the business going); and ten years private health 
insurance for him, due to the impact on his health. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr Ts business. It has clearly been an incredibly stressful time for Mr T. However, 
I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
This policy covers business interruption losses due to certain specified events, it will not 
cover loss of income to an individual partner. I also do not have the power to penalise or fine 
financial businesses, as we are not the regulator. I also cannot investigate what information 
Ageas should have given to the FCA. So even if I upheld the complaint, I do not have the 
power to award some of the things Mr T has asked for. 
Business insurance policies offer protection from some of the risks common to a business, 
but different policies provide different types of cover. No policy will cover everything that 
might happen to a business. What is and isnt covered is set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Ive looked carefully at Gs policy to see if Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. 
There are three parts within the business interruption section of cover, which might appear  
relevant to this claim. I have therefore considered each of these and whether Gs claim might 
be covered under any of them.Damage
The core business interruption cover is set out in section 2 of the policy. It says: 
Section 2 - Business Interruption 
The Company will indemnify the Insured for loss of Gross Profit as a result of 
interruption of or interference with the Business carried on at the Premises in 
consequence of Damage to Property used by the Insured for the Business from the 
Cover Causes shown against this item on the Schedule
Damage is defined as being loss, destruction or damage
The causes of damage covered shown in the policy schedule include events such as fire and 
storm. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused loss, destruction or damage to the 
insured property, so I think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to say theres no cover under 
this section of the policy
Denial of Access
There is an extension to the business interruption section, which covers loss of takings 
resulting directly from:
Denial of Access -
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from interruption 
of or interference with the Business in consequence of Damage from Cover Causes 
1, 2, 3 and 4 to Property in the vicinity of the Premises which shall prevent or hinder 
the use of or access to the Insureds Premises, whether or not there has been 
Damage to the Premises or Property of the Insured. 
Again, this clause requires there to have been physical damage to properties in the vicinity 
that prevents or hinders access to Gs business premises. I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Covid-19 caused damage to any property in the vicinity and so I do not consider the 
claim would be covered under this section either. 
Notifiable Diseases
There is also an extension of cover for closure of the business as a result of an occurrence 
of a notifiable disease. The policy says: 
Notifiable Diseases, Poisoning, Defective Drains and Murder or Suicide.
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from the 
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of: 
(i) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
(ii) any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of 
a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) 
Special ProvisionsA Notifiable Disease shall mean illness sustained by any person resulting from:
i food or drink poisoning
ii any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Gs claim, the 
interruption to Gs business would need to be as a result of an occurrence of Covid-19 at the 
premises.   
As Mr T has said, widespread self-testing wasnt available towards the start of the 
pandemic, and the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were 
displaying symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant 
will be able to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a 
requirement to demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance 
claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its 
suffered a loss its policy covers.
Mr T says he has lots of evidence of the presence of Covid-19 in his family and around the 
premises. I understand his granddaughter was very ill with Kawasaki disease in December 
2019. I understand that Covid-19 did cause Kawasaki-like symptoms in some children. But 
even if I accept that Mr Ts granddaughters illness was caused by Covid-19, there is no 
suggestion that she had been at the premises. Similarly, while a neighbour had Covid-19, 
there is no suggestion he had been at Gs premises either. So I do not think these 
occurrences, even if they were Covid-19, would trigger cover under the policy. 
Mr T says he, his wife and son were also all unwell with chest infections in December 2019.  
He says he thinks they had Covid-19, as they had been in contact with his granddaughter 
around the same time she had become unwell. It is of course difficult to be certain but I do 
not think this in itself is enough evidence to say that it is more likely than not that they had 
Covid-19 at the time. 
Mr T also says that one of his engineers was very ill with what was likely to be Covid-19 in 
early 2020 and had been at the premises. He says this is clear evidence that the claim 
should be met.  
Mr T has said his engineer was ill from late January 2020, with a fever and vomiting. Theres 
no other evidence, as far as I am aware, to support this. The engineer has not provided any 
evidence himself and Ive not been provided with any contemporaneous fit notes, sickness 
records or messages to support this period of illness. While I have no reason to doubt what 
Mr T has said, given there is no other evidence around this, I am not persuaded that it has 
been established that in there was a case of Covid-19 at the premises at this time.   
Mr T says the engineer returned to work and then became ill again in February 2020, being 
admitted to intensive care with community acquired pneumonia on 14 February 2020. 
Mr T says there was no Covid-19 testing still at that point but while there was no self-testing 
available, there was in-hospital testing at that time. Mr T has provided contemporaneous 
evidence of the engineer being unwell and in hospital with pneumonia, including two fit notes, one covering 24 February (which I understand is when he was discharged form 
hospital) to 2 March 2020 and one covering the period from 2 March until 15 March 2020. 
There is no mention of the possibility of the infection being Covid-19 on either of the fit notes. 
Mr T has also provided screenshots of messages between him and the engineer at the time 
and there is no mention of the infection possibly being Covid-19 in those either. 
While Covid-19 did cause pneumonia symptoms in some people, the fact the engineer had 
pneumonia does not in itself establish that he had Covid-19. Obviously it is difficult to be 
certain but, having considered everything, I cannot reasonably conclude that it was more 
likely than not that the engineer had Covid-19.
In addition, as well as having to establish that the engineer had Covid-19, it has to be 
established that he was at the premises with Covid-19. For it to be an occurrence, we would 
normally require the person to have been diagnosable with Covid-19 at the time, so this 
could include the period they were incubating the infection. 
Mr T has said the engineer attended the property between being ill in January 2020 and 
going into hospital on 14 February 2020 but I have no evidence before me of any dates he 
was at the office premises. And also after he was released from hospital on 24 February 
2020, Mr T said the engineer returned to the premises to carry out light duties. However, the 
fit note provided doesnt say the engineer was able to carry out any work, as far as I can 
see. There is some handwriting on the note which is difficult to read but seems to refer to 
him going back for a further sick note. A message from the engineer dated 16 February 
2020, says hed need recovery time at home once he was released from hospital. 
There are no messages or any other evidence to support that the engineer attended the 
premises between 14 February 2020 and 15 March 2020. 
Having considered everything, I do not consider it has been established that there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Ageass handling of the claim and complaint
Mr T is adamant that Ageas has deliberately delayed and blocked his claim throughout. I 
have not seen any evidence that it has acted inappropriately. It did consider the claim under  
the wrong policy document initially. However, this was reassessed once this error was 
pointed out. It has also offered £100 compensation for this, which I think is reasonable. If 
Ageas has not paid the £100 compensation it offered, I would ask it to do so now.
Supreme Courts judgment in the test case
Mr T has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCAs Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in support of its complaint. The Court considered various policies which 
covered businesses which were impacted   by a notifiable diseases but it didnt consider 
policies that required an occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises as in this policy. 
As G hasnt shown that there was most likely an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises, I 
am not therefore persuaded that the judgment impacts the outcome of Gs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman