DRN-3463015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Countrywide Principal Services Limited misled them 
about the service they would be providing in relation to arranging a mortgage. To settle the 
complaint, Mr and Mrs M want Countrywide to refund the £250 fee they have paid under 
Countrywides fee agreement and write off the remaining balance due of £299. Mr and 
Mrs M also want compensation for financial and emotional distress, a written apology and for 
Countrywide to promise to review its current processes.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 15 October 2021. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs M 
being identified.
Briefly, in January 2021 Mr and Mrs M wanted to move house. They found a property to buy 
and contacted Countrywide to arrange a mortgage for them. A mortgage was sourced for 
them with a lender, N. The mortgage came with a free valuation, but Mr and Mrs M wanted a 
full building survey. This was originally going to be carried out by Countrywide  through its 
separate surveying business. However, Mr and Mrs M subsequently arranged the survey 
themselves.
As part of the application and advice process, Countrywide provided Mr and Mrs M with its 
terms of business. This stated that a fee of £549 was payable for the service Countrywide 
was providing  an initial £250 payment, followed by a further £299 after exchange of 
contracts. Ordinarily, Countrywide would have had Mr and Mrs M sign the terms of business 
during a face-to-face meeting. However, due to the pandemic, the advice was given over the 
telephone. As a result, the terms of business were emailed to Mr and Mrs M, who were 
asked to reply to the email confirming theyd read and accepted the terms. Mr and Mrs M did 
so.
After exchange of contracts Countrywide emailed Mr and Mrs M to say no further fee was 
due. However, this was an error, as the balance of £299 was still due.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Countrywide. They said that theyd been told that Countrywide 
has access to exclusive interest rates, but the rate they were offered by N was available to 
anyone. Mr and Mrs M also said that theyd been told that, by using Countrywide, theyd be 
entitled to a free survey, but theyd had to pay for this. Countrywide didnt uphold the 
complaint.
A second complaint was raised, because Countrywide had contacted Mr and Mrs M about 
payment of the outstanding balance. Mr and Mrs M had said they thought collection of the 
balance was on hold. Countrywide said this wasnt the case, but offered £50 compensation 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this and brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. On their complaint form Mr and Mrs M say they believe they were manipulated out 
of £549, that the £299 was taken under false pretences and that Countrywide is requesting 
further payment. Had the promised services been provided, this financial commitment would 
have paid for itself and the initial outlay of £549 would have felt justified. Emotionally we feel 
misled.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied Countrywides terms of business provided that a fee of £549 was 
payable and that this wasnt connected with the full survey that Mr and Mrs M had initially 
arranged via Countrywide, but then subsequently changed to their own surveyor.
The investigator acknowledged that it was frustrating for Mr and Mrs M to have been told 
initially that no further fee was due, but overall she was satisfied the £50 offered for this 
mistake was fair compensation.
The investigator was also satisfied that the lender sourced and the interest rate offered were 
the most suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. They didnt think the investigator had 
understood what their complaint was about. They have clarified that they say they were told 
by Countrywide that theyd receive a £500 contribution towards the survey, and that if they 
wished to opt for a higher level survey than the basic valuation, then theyd need to top this 
up from their own funds. 
Countrywide quoted £640 for a full survey, which would be carried out by a surveyor 
employed by Countrywide in its surveying business. Initially Mr and Mrs M agreed to this, but 
then they sourced another surveyor who was cheaper, and so had their survey carried out 
by that party.
Mr and Mrs M have told us that, once they understood the basic valuation was free, they say 
they were led to believe that the prices quoted for the other levels of property inspection 
were taking into account the £500 contribution from Countrywide. They say they spoke to 
Countrywide about this, and were told that the £500 contribution only applied to the lowest 
level of property valuation  and as their chosen lender didnt charge for this, then theyd lost 
out on the £500. If they had known they wouldnt be given a £500 contribution towards the 
cost of a survey, they wouldnt have proceeded with the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
First of all, in relation to the interest rate, Ive noted that, although there was another lender 
with a slightly lower interest rate, the mortgage with N was the better option for Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances, due to lower fees, lending criteria and account features. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs M say they could have gone to N direct for this mortgage, but they did not, and chose instead to engage Countrywide to source a mortgage for them. There is nothing 
untoward in Countrywide sourcing mortgages from the open market. I think the 
recommendation was suitable, so Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
However, Mr and Mrs M say that Countrywide failed to provide the service it promised, and 
they feel misled, both financially and emotionally. There is a clear disparity in what they say 
happened and what Countrywide says. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive or 
where there is a clear discrepancy in what both parties say, I have to decide what I think is 
most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available.
The starting point here is the fee agreement. This is a document entitled Residential 
Countrywide Fees for our Services Agreement. The first line under that header says: For 
arranging your mortgage application, a non-refundable fee of £549.00 will be charged for our 
services. The document clarifies that an initial payment of £250 is payable at the time of the 
application and is non-refundable, and the second payment of £299 is payable after 
exchange and is also non-refundable.
Mr and Mrs M were also sent a document called Our fees explained which explained that 
the fee for the services provided by Countrywide were on a scale depending on the cost of 
the property and whether it was a new mortgage, re-mortgage for an existing customer or a 
re-mortgage, product transfer and further advance. The fee for the work done for Mr and 
Mrs M was broken down as to £250 for the mortgage application and £299 for the mortgage 
arrangement fee, making a total of £549. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M confirmed their 
agreement to these terms by email dated 25 January 2021.
Im also satisfied the mortgage illustration and mortgage offer both show that a fee of £549 is 
payable to Countrywide. There is no ambiguity about these documents and I think that the 
fees being charged by Countrywide are clear.
However, Mr and Mrs M say they were told that theyd be receiving a £500 contribution 
towards a survey, which they didnt receive. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
came with a free valuation (which is not a survey, but is a basic inspection so the lender can 
decide whether or not the property is suitable for lending purposes). 
Many lenders dont charge for the basic valuation. There are, however, two other levels of 
property inspection  a RICS Home Buyers Report, or a full structural survey  for which 
fees are payable. The inspection for the Home Buyers Report is often carried out at the 
same time as the lenders valuation, by the same surveyor. However, a full structural 
building survey  particularly for very old or listed buildings  might need to be arranged 
separately, due to the extensive inspection thats needed.
I dont know if the basic mortgage valuation was carried out by a surveyor employed by 
Countrywides surveying business  which is a totally separate company from the business 
which provides mortgage advice. But nothing turns on this. 
Rather, the issue is that Mr and Mrs M say that they thought the fee they were quoted for the 
full building survey of £640 included the £500 they say they were told would be discounted 
from the cost of the survey. Because they arranged their own survey elsewhere for less, they 
believe they have lost out on the £500. 
As the party bringing the complaint, Mr and Mrs Ms version of events has to be more likely 
than Countrywides, if Im to uphold the complaint. But after looking at the evidence, Im not 
persuaded that what Mr and Mrs M say is the more likely version of events. I say this 
because the documents are very clear about the service Countrywide is providing for £549. Given this, I think its unlikely Countrywide would have told Mr and Mrs M something that 
was untrue and incorrect, when this would have easily come to light as soon as they read 
the fee agreement, the document called Our fees explained, the mortgage illustration and 
the mortgage offer  all of which explain that a fee of £549 is payable for Countrywides 
services on arranging the mortgage. There is also is nothing in the documentation, nor in the 
extensive email trail between Mr and Mrs M and Countrywide to suggest a contribution of 
£500 would be made towards a survey. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they dont believe Countrywide provided the service it promised. But 
this isnt the case  Countrywide arranged a mortgage for Mr and Mrs M. Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Countrywide to be paid for this, in line with the fee agreement, the terms of 
which Mr and Mrs M confirmed they agreed to.
I appreciate Countrywide made an error in saying no further fee was due. I also note Mr and 
Mrs M werent happy to be contacted about the outstanding £299 after their complaint was 
raised. Countrywide has offered compensation of £50, which I think is fair, and I dont intend 
to order it to do anything further. I think it would be the fairest outcome for Countrywide to 
deduct the £50 from the remaining balance due to be paid by Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman