DRN-4338031
The complaint
The estate of Mrs A complains about poor service from Co-op Funeral Plans Limited after 
Mrs A died and her family sought to arrange her funeral. 
The estate is represented by Mrs As son and executor, Mr A.
What happened
In summary, Mrs A had a pre-paid funeral plan with Co-op. Sadly, in December 2022, Mrs A 
died. Her family contacted Co-op to arrange for Mrs A to be taken into their care and to start 
making arrangements for her funeral. 
Unfortunately, things did not run smoothly. Mrs As children were unhappy with the service 
they received, including the time taken to collect their mother from the care home, the 
attitude of Co-ops collection staff, and the advice and information they received regarding 
arrangements for Mrs As funeral. Significantly, the information they were originally given 
about additional costs didnt factor in non-resident charges for burial, resulting in Mrs As 
family sourcing an alternative venue, as they didnt want to change the date of the funeral at 
short notice.  
Mrs As family subsequently complained. Co-op upheld the complaint, acknowledging 
thered been errors, apologising and offering £500 compensation. 
Mrs As family werent satisfied with Co-ops response, so came to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She explained she was unable 
to comment on Co-ops offer of £500 as our rules only allow us to award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to eligible complainants, not their representatives. However, she 
also thought thered been diminution in the value of Mrs As plan, as Co-op hadnt delivered 
all of the elements of Mrs As plan adequately. She recommended Co-op redress the 
diminution by paying the estate of Mrs A £300 for loss in value.  
Co-op accepted our investigators view. But Mrs As family remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to review things and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint to the extent that I require Co-op to pay the 
estate of Mrs A £300 for loss of value in the funeral plan she bought. I appreciate this isnt 
the news Mrs As relatives were hoping for. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the points 
and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular point or 
piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaint. 
Firstly, Im aware Mr A has expressed frustration about the limits of our powers. As our 
investigator explained, our rules only allow us to award compensation for poor service to 
eligible complainants themselves  thats Mrs A in this case. The events complained of all 
happened after Mrs A died, so didnt affect her personally. And I cant consider the impact of 
Co-ops actions on Mrs As representative or other family members. I appreciate this is an 
unsatisfactory position for Mrs As relatives and Im sorry about that. But its not something I 
can change. 
I do, nevertheless, accept that Co-ops dealings with Mrs As family have fallen short of 
expectations and caused upset, stress and inconvenience at an already challenging time. 
And I was pleased to see that Co-op acknowledged there were failings, apologised and 
offered £500 compensation in recognition of the impact of those errors. 
But as well as the impact of Co-ops mistakes, I think there has been a financial loss to Mrs 
As estate. I say this because I dont think all of the goods and services Mrs A bought were 
delivered to a satisfactory quality and standard. This has led to a diminution in the value of 
her plan. Amongst other things, Mrs As plan included the provision of advice on all matters 
relating to the funeral and all funeral directors services to make the funeral arrangements. I 
think these services included advice, information and assistance to identify a suitable burial 
plot. The critical issue here was Co-ops funeral arranger not appreciating the potential 
additional cost of plots where the deceased was not resident in the local area. As a 
consequence, Mrs As family had to undertake work at short notice to identify a suitable 
burial site, something with which they could reasonably have expected Co-ops support.
Im aware Mr A has previously asked for evidence as to how the figure proposed by our 
investigator to reflect diminution in value was calculated. But as our investigator has 
explained, under our rules, Im required to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Im conscious that other 
elements of the plan were delivered satisfactorily, so overall, I think £300 fairly reflects the 
reduction in quality resulting from Co-ops poor advice. I should stress that this financial loss 
is separate from the impact of that and other failings on Mrs As family which is reflected in 
Co-ops offer of £500.
Putting things right
To put things right Co-op should:
Pay the estate of Mrs A £300 to reflect the diminution in value of Mrs As plan. 
In line with our usual approach, set out on our website, Co-op should add to the 
payment 8% per annum simple interest, from the date of Mrs As death - 13 
December 2022 - until the date the payment is made. I have determined this as a fair 
date from which to pay interest, as the redemption of Mrs As plan  commenced on 
the date of her death  was when the diminution in value began. 
If Co-op considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell the estate how much its taken off. It should provide a 
tax deduction certificate if requested, so that the estate can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. My final decision
My final decision is that I require Co-op Funeral Plans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs A, to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman