DRN-3184475
The complaint
Mr A is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined his application 
for a Bounce Back Loan. He also complains the funds from the loan appeared in his 
account, but he was unable to use them as expected. 
Mr A is represented throughout the complaint by Mrs A. 
What happened
Mr A had an existing account with HSBC. In early June 2020, Mr A applied to the bank for a 
Bounce Back Loan of £50,000. Shortly after this, Mr A could see a new Bounce Back Loan 
Account had been created in his name, with the £50,000 loan credited to the account when 
viewing it online. So he believed the loan application had been successful. 
However, Mr A wasnt able to use the funds, so he contacted HSBC for an update. The bank 
told Mr A the application was being processed and they were waiting for account opening 
formalities to be completed before he could access the funds. He was also told that a facility 
offer letter (the agreement) for the loan had been issued. Mr A says that once he received 
this message, he borrowed money for his outgoings with the expectation that the loan funds 
would soon be released. 
A couple of days later, Mr A received the loan agreement letter from HSBC, so he signed 
and returned this to the bank as requested, but he was still unable to access the loan funds. 
Mr A continued to chase HSBC for an update on when the funds would be released and told 
the bank that he was incurring higher interest on the money hed borrowed to cover the 
outgoings as he expected the loan funds to be released sooner. 
When Mr A didnt receive a satisfactory response, he complained to HSBC and also asked 
this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator continued to chase HSBC for a decision on Mr As Bounce Back Loan 
application over several months. HSBC confirmed they were reviewing the application but 
due to a high volume of applications, there was a delay in responding. 
In early December 2020, HSBC emailed Mr A to say theyd considered his application and 
had decided not to progress it further and would be terminating the loan agreement. Then in 
mid-December 2020, Mr A received a statement from HSBC saying the loan account had 
been closed. 
Mr A wanted the bank to explain why theyd declined his application. And he said HSBCs 
actions had prevented him from accessing a Bounce Back Loan with another lender. In 
March 2021, Mr A applied again to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan, but this was also 
declined.  
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and recommended the complaint be upheld in 
part. She didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly by declining Mr As Bounce Back Loan 
applications. She said the bank needed to carry out certain checks, which Mr As application 
hadnt passed  and based on the information within Mr As original application, she thought 
this was reasonable. 
However, the investigator thought HSBC had made an error when processing Mr As 
application, which meant the loan had been made visible to him. And although she felt it had 
been reasonable for the bank to restrict access to the funds under the circumstances, she 
thought it had taken too long for HSBC to tell Mr A about their decision to decline his 
application.
The investigator acknowledged Mr A had used other borrowing to cover his expected bills as 
hed seen the loan balance in his account. She said that although Mr A would still have 
needed to pay those bills when then were due, she recognised this had an impact on him - 
as Mr A told us hed been caused financial difficulty from the increased borrowing costs 
incurred waiting for the loan funds to be released and may not have chosen to pay the bills 
in this way.
The investigator also acknowledged Mr A said this had caused him stress and worry, in 
addition to the significant amount of time hed spent chasing HSBC for a response over the 
six-month period. So she recommended HSBC pay Mr A £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr A didnt agree. He didnt think £500 was enough compensation for the amount of 
mistakes HSBC had made and for the way hed been treated. So he asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold it. Ill explain why.
Bounce Back Loan
Mr A has told us hes unhappy his loan application was declined, and he wanted HSBC to 
explain why. So I need to see if the bank acted reasonably in how they processed Mr As 
loan application. Although the Bounce Back Loan scheme is a government-backed scheme, 
there were still eligibility requirements, with checks having to be made and with some 
discretion for lenders to have the final say as to whether to approve the loan. The checks a 
borrower would be subject to when applying for a loan from any lender included, customer 
fraud, Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks.
When HSBC completed their checks, they identified some discrepancies in the information 
Mr A had provided and noted the turnover through Mr As business account was significantly 
less than the figure hed declared. Given that the amount of money Mr A could borrow under 
the scheme was up to 25% of the business turnover to a maximum of £50,000, the turnover 
Mr A declared had to be accurate  because Mr A may not have been eligible for the amount 
he was looking to borrow. 
Looking at the application form, Ive seen it says, You can apply for a loan which is up to 
25% of your turnover in calendar year 2019, from a minimum of £2,000 up to a maximum of 
£50,000. If your business was established after 1 January 2019, you should apply the 25% 
limit to your estimated annual turnover from the date you started the business. 
Mr A was also asked on the application to confirm this amount was equal to or less than 25% of his annual turnover for 2019 or estimated annual turnover, to which he ticked yes. 
Mr A was then asked as the final declaration to confirm that the information provided in this 
application is complete and accurate.
Mr A said his business had a turnover of £200,000  after hed called HSBC to confirm hed 
made a typing error when filling out the application initially. Mr A said the figure he entered 
was his estimated turnover for 2020, and that he had offered evidence from his accountant 
to verify this figure. However, as explained on the application form, estimates were only to 
be used for businesses established after 1 January 2019. Mr A had been trading prior to this 
date and has held a business bank account with HSBC since early 2010. So Mr A shouldve 
provided his actual turnover for 2019  which was much lower than the £200,000 figure hed 
provided.
Looking at the application wording, I think the description for which turnover figure needed to 
be provided was clear, so I think it was reasonable for HSBC to expect Mr A to enter his 
actual 2019 turnover  and to then have had concerns about the accuracy of the information 
Mr A had provided. 
The application declaration says I/We recognise that by providing information that is 
inaccurate or incomplete in any material particular, I/we may be regarded as attempting to 
gain, or gaining, a financial advantage dishonestly and that this would lead to the forfeiture 
of all loan proceeds. 
So I think HSBC made it clear that if they identified the information declared on the 
application by the potential borrower wasnt accurate, they wouldnt provide the Bounce 
Back Loan. So I think it was reasonable for HSBC not to proceed with Mr As application. 
Mr A told us that because of the delay in giving him a decision on his initial Bounce Back 
Loan application, he was unable to apply to another lender. But I dont agree. I say this 
because HSBC declined Mr As application in early December 2020, and the scheme didnt 
end until March 2021. I think its reasonable to believe Mr A could have applied to another 
lender but instead he applied to HSBC again, and the bank declined Mr As second 
application as he hadnt met their checks on the first one. 
Mr A says he wasnt told by HSBC that his Bounce Back Loan application wasnt successful. 
He told us he felt the loan account had been closed without warning as he simply received 
an account closure statement. I can understand why Mr A would have felt frustrated by this 
after the significant delays he experienced. 
However, I have seen evidence that HSBC did send Mr A an email in early December 2020 
telling him the application wouldnt be progressing. I acknowledge Mr A said he didnt 
receive this - however Ive seen the email address it was sent to and its the same one the 
bank hold on file for Mr A. So I cant say HSBC did anything wrong in the way they 
communicated the outcome of Mr As unsuccessful application. 
I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision as 
he wanted the Bounce Back Loan. But based on everything Ive seen, I think HSBC have 
acted reasonably and in line with the scheme rules by declining the application, so I wont be 
asking them to do anything more for this part of the complaint.
Issues with the application process and delays in communicating the decision
HSBC have told us there were delays in processing Mr As application due to the high 
volume of applications they received, which meant they couldnt communicate their decision 
to him. I acknowledge this was an unprecedented time for the bank, but even bearing that in mind I still think six-months is an excessive and unreasonable amount of time to wait for a 
decision.  
The delay here was also compounded as Mr A had visibility of the £50,000 in a Bounce Back 
Loan account for nearly six months due to an error by HSBC. In addition to this he was given 
incorrect information by the bank when he logged into his online banking with messages that 
said the bank only needed electronic signatures for the funds to be released  when this 
wasnt the case. This meant Mr A spent a significant amount of time and effort chasing 
HSBC for the funds.
I acknowledge that HSBC have sent us screenshots from their internal systems which dont 
show the loan was drawn down or that it was showing as available for Mr A. The bank has 
also provided system prints showing the loan was opened and closed on the same date in 
December 2020 that they issued the decline decision to Mr A. However, this doesnt change 
the fact the Bounce Back Loan was visible to Mr A for the six-month period that HSBC were 
making their decision and therefore impacted Mr As subsequent decisions.    
Mr A has told us he was caused distress and inconvenience because of the delays in the 
application and the decisions which he took to cover his bills after seeing the £50,000 on the 
online banking. Mr A also told us hed borrowed from family and other sources to pay his 
outstanding bills - with the expectation the funds would be released by HSBC. 
Although Mr As bills would still have been due, I think it was reasonable for him to believe 
that his loan application had been successful and that hed be receiving the funds shortly. 
This then meant when the loan wasnt released as expected that Mr A was left in a more 
difficult position of having to repay the funds hed borrowed at a higher cost than hed 
expected. 
So for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think HSBC processed Mr As Bounce Back 
Loan application in a reasonable way. Its clear the banks handling of his application caused 
Mr A distress and inconvenience, so to put things right I think HSBC should pay him £500 
compensation to address this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr A 
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman