DRN-3893302
Complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against her. She says that she was also a victim of a fraud and its unfair for Metro not to 
remove the marker.
Background
During the period between December 2021 and March 2022, Miss S Metro account 
received 17 payments totalling around £3,252 from a third-party. Miss A then transferred 
these funds onto another third-party Metro subsequently received a notification from the 
bank which sent the funds stating that its customer had been scammed into making these 
payments into Miss S account. Metro reviewed Miss S account and as a result of its 
investigation, it decided to close Miss S account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning that Metro had recorded a fraud prevention marker against her, Miss S 
complained to Metro. Metro looked at Miss S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss S 
remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss S concerns. He didnt think that Metro had done 
enough to show that Miss S was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss S. Metro didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss S is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Miss S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss S allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss S complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss S account and that she was complicit in 
this. Its important to note Metro had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test for it 
to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, it is clear that Metro received a fraud notification regarding a 
number of payments made into Miss S account. So I can understand why Metro had 
concerns about the usage on Miss S account. However, as Ive already explained, this in 
itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a customer. Metro also has 
to produce sufficient evidence to show Miss S was complicit in fraud. And I dont think that it 
has done that here.
I think it would be helpful for me to start by setting out that Metro does appear to have 
carried out an investigation into Miss S actions, once it received the notification from the 
third-party bank. Miss S provided some further information, which on the face of things 
doesnt seem unreasonable, and it isnt entirely clear to me why Metro didnt consider this to 
be enough to accept Miss S version of events.
Miss S has also explained that she agreed to accept these payments from one of her friends 
who said that she was receiving them from her uncle. She has also provided copies of 
messages from around the time which, on the face of things, appear to confirm this. Our 
adjudicator found Miss S version of events plausible and he thought that Miss S was 
unwittingly involved in fraud, rather than it being the case that she was complicit in it. 
Ive considered this matter. And I do have concerns over why Miss S didnt question why her 
friend simply didnt receive the payments in question directly from her uncle  especially as 
this took place over a period of three months. So I can understand why this would be an 
issue for Metro. But I think that Miss S friend receiving the payments into different accounts, 
in her name, does give more credibility to the explanation that she was having problems with 
her banking at that time and thats why she needed Miss S help.    
Most importantly, I can also see that Miss S immediately transferred all of the funds on to her 
friend as soon as they were received into her account. So Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Miss S benefitted from the fraudulent funds. And I would question why shed knowingly 
participate in a fraud she wouldnt benefit from. I say this while especially mindful that not 
immediately transferring these funds would have prevented her from having a standing order 
returned as unpaid in December 2021.
As Ive explained, it is Metros responsibility to demonstrate that Miss S was knowingly 
involved in fraudulent activity. And I think that it has failed to do that here. Overall and having 
considered everything, I dont think that Mero had sufficient evidence to meet the test for 
recording a fraud marker against Miss S. In my view, the evidence Miss S has supplied does 
indicate that she didnt knowingly participate in fraud. As this is the case, I think that it was 
unfair for Metro Bank to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So 
Im upholding Miss S complaint and Metro needs to remove any and all fraud markers it has 
recorded.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss S complaint. Metro Bank PLC should 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman