DRN-3341736
The complaint
Mr S complains that Motor Gap Limited (MGL) declined to cover his vehicle shortly after he 
bought a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance policy online.
What happened
Mr S bought a GAP insurance policy with MGL one evening in January 2022. MGL phoned 
Mr S the next morning to say the price hed paid for the car was at least £2,500 more than 
book value. It said it would have to decline to offer GAP insurance due to the increased risk. 
Mr S said he felt hed been accused of fraud during the call and it ended acrimoniously. On 
the same day, MGL refunded Mr S the amount hed paid for the policy. 
Mr S complained. He said MGL had got its valuation wrong and it hadnt taken full account of 
the circumstances at the time hed bought the car. He also thought MGL should be bound by 
the contract hed made when he bought the policy. MGL didnt think it had done anything 
wrong and Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think MGL needed to take any further action. He recognised Mr Ss 
frustration but thought MGL had abided by its terms and conditions and thought it had acted 
fairly in declining to provide GAP insurance for his car. Although Mr S felt MGL had accused 
him of fraudulent behaviour, our investigator thought it had only asked standard exploratory 
questions to see if it could provide cover.
As Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mr S believes that once hed entered into a contract with MGL, it should be bound by it. But 
the terms and conditions on MGLs website make it clear that its not automatically bound to 
any insurance contract bought online. The terms say it reserves the right to investigate the 
circumstances of the client and the vehicle if it feels the need arises. And in this case it felt 
there was a need to do that because the price Mr S paid for his car was quite a lot higher 
than the market rate price. So, I think it was fair for MGL to investigate Mr Ss circumstances 
further by calling him the morning after hed bought the GAP policy online. And then decide 
whether or not to cancel the policy.
Mr S also believes MGL got its valuation wrong. I havent seen evidence of that. MGL said it 
used Glasss guide to determine the valuation of Mr Ss car and that valued the car at just 
over £29,000. I can see that our investigator did his own valuation based on three separate 
car guides, including Glasss, and that came up with an average valuation of just under 
£29,000. So, within a similar range. As MGL said, that was about £2,500 less than Mr S says 
he paid for the car. Its for the insurer to assess the risk its willing to take and then decide 
whether or not to offer insurance. In this situation, it decided the risk was too great and 
decided to withdraw its offer of insurance. In the circumstances, I dont think that decision 
was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr S also thought MGL had accused him of being fraudulent. Ive listened to the telephone 
call Mr S had with MGL and Im satisfied there was no mention of fraud before he raised the 
issue. I also dont think MGL implied Mr S was being fraudulent. MGL explained it was 
asking the questions to assess the risk of insuring Mr Ss car. And as there was an 
increased risk of insuring the car, I think it was fair for MGL to ask questions about the 
purchase price and value of the car to decide whether or not it should offer insurance.   
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr S experienced. But for the reasons Ive given, I dont 
think MGL has treated Mr S unfairly and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman