DRN-4364051
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the service she received from Vitality Health Limited when she 
made a claim under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss H says Vitality Health Limited delayed in referring her claim to a specific oncology 
team. She felt that this delayed her treatment and may have resulted in her having additional 
surgery. Vitality upheld the complaint, apologised, and offered £500 in compensation. Our 
investigator thought that was fair. Mrs H appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the law, the terms of the insurance contract and the 
available medical evidence, to decide whether I think Vitality treated Miss H fairly.
The background to this matter is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it here. Vitality 
admit that it should have referred Miss Hs claim to an oncology case manager sooner than it 
did. It says the referral should have been on or around 12 May 2023 when the insurance 
intermediary advised that Miss H had undergone treatment on the NHS but required further 
surgery. Instead, the referral wasnt made until 9 June 2023. However, I agree with the 
conclusion reached by our investigator and find that the referral should have been made 
when Miss H emailed her insurance intermediary on 16 March 2023 with a clinical report 
confirming her diagnosis. This was sent within the hour to Vitality. If it was in any doubt that 
Miss H wanted private treatment, it should have sought to clarify.
The question I must then consider is whether this error caused a delay in Miss H getting to 
see a consultant and having treatment. I dont underestimate how stressful this process was 
for Miss H  she was desperately trying to arrange private medical treatment as soon as 
possible. Family members had had poor experiences with NHS care and it was most 
important to her to have private treatment. But Im not persuaded that the error on the part of 
Vitality made a significant difference. I say this because Vitality authorised a claim for Miss H 
to see a specialist for an initial consultation where the treatment pathway would be arranged. 
Miss H was given a list of names to contact to arrange an appointment. I can see it 
transpired that Miss H needed to see a surgeon, but she hadnt been referred to a surgeon 
at that time. Vitality has confirmed that even if she had been referred to the oncology team 
and allocated a case manager, she would have been given the same list of specialists. It is 
worth saying too that Vitality has no control or influence over consultant availability.
There is no doubt that this was an incredibly stressful time for Miss H and I do accept that 
she would have felt some comfort in having a dedicated contact in Vitalitys oncology team. 
Particularly given her positive experience once she had a contact in place. But on the 
evidence before me I cant say this would have meant that things moved more quickly for her 
in terms of her surgery.
Miss H has provided details regarding the impact of delay on people with her condition. I 
accept the evidence is correct and recognise that is particularly upsetting for Miss H given 
the delays she faced in getting to see the correct physician the having treatment. But for the 
reason given above I dont find that Vitality was responsible for these delays. I understand 
Miss Hs claim that had she had the surgery done privately, as she wanted, she wouldnt 
have needed to have two surgeries. I understand the logic of her thinking, but Ive seen no 
evidence to support this. 
My final decision
Vitality has already made an offer to pay £500 in compensation to settle the complaint and I 
find this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Vitality Health Limited should pay Miss N £500, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman