DRN-3955696
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV 
handled a claim she made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L was insured, by CIGNA, under a group private medical insurance policy. However, in 
March 2020, she took out a personal policy with CIGNA. Her personal policy included both a 
deductible and co-pay provisions.
During March and April 2021, Mrs L underwent private knee surgery. She made a claim on 
her personal policy for the costs she incurred. As the medical costs straddled two policy 
years, Mrs L was charged two co-pay amounts and two deductibles.
However, Mrs L said that CIGNA had incorrectly billed the old group policy, which had led to 
her overpaying CHF 1737. So she complained to CIGNA. It took some months to issue a 
final response to her complaint. CIGNA concluded that it had correctly billed the payments to 
Mrs Ls personal policy and that therefore, her co-payments and deductibles were correct.
Mrs L remained unhappy with CIGNAs handling of her claim and so she asked us to look 
into her complaint.
Our investigator considered the evidence Mrs L had provided and noted that CIGNA had 
incorrectly billed the group scheme (of which Mrs L was no longer a member). CIGNA 
accepted its error and agreed to refund Mrs L CHF 1737  the amount shed said shed 
overpaid.
Mrs L accepted CIGNAs offer to refund her overpayment. But she remained unhappy with 
the service shed received from CIGNA. She said shed sent numerous emails and made 
many calls to CIGNA over a period of months to resolve the issue and had received poor 
customer service.
Our investigator didnt think CIGNA had handled Mrs Ls claim promptly or fairly. She 
thought CIGNA had had enough information about the reason for Mrs Ls complaint for it to 
have addressed things more quickly than it had done. She noted the treating clinic had 
chased Mrs L for payment, which she felt wouldve caused Mrs L embarrassment. And she 
thought the customer service Mrs L had received had caused her some frustration. So she 
recommended that CIGNA should pay Mrs L £300 compensation. She also recommended 
that CIGNA should add interest at a rate of 8% simple to the refund amount of CHF 1737, to 
reflect the period Mrs L had been without use of the money.
CIGNA accepted the investigators recommendations.
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators findings. She thought CIGNA had deliberately 
ignored her attempts to resolve the situation and she had therefore suffered two years of 
anxiety. This had had a detrimental effect on her well-being, but CIGNA had suffered no 
consequences at all. It had only been recently that shed been able to settle the bill of CHF 
1737 with the treating clinic, which she felt had damaged her reputation. She felt it was only 
fair that she should be compensated for the suffering she thought CIGNA had deliberately 
caused her. So she considered £3000 would be more appropriate compensation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. The 
regulator also requires a financial business to respond to a complaint in writing within eight 
weeks, either with an outcome or to explain why it needs more time to investigate things.
In this case, CIGNA now accepts that it made an error when it handled Mrs Ls claim and it 
incorrectly billed the group policy. This led to Mrs L overpaying by CHF 1737. CIGNA has 
agreed to refund this amount, and Mrs L has accepted this offer of reimbursement. So I dont 
think I need to make any further detailed finding on the way CIGNA settled Mrs Ls claim. I 
would add that I agree with the investigator that I think its fair and reasonable for CIGNA to 
add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to this amount, from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date the refund was/is paid. This interest award is designed to 
compensate Mrs L for the time she lost use of this money. 
It seems to me that the issue for me to decide is what fair compensation for Mrs Ls trouble 
and upset should be. As the investigator explained, the available evidence indicates that 
when Mrs L initially complained to CIGNA, she referred to the incorrect billing to the old 
group scheme. So I think CIGNA had enough information from the outset to investigate this 
issue. Had it done so, it seems likely that the billing error wouldve been identified and the 
outstanding amount of CHF 1737 could have been promptly paid to the treating clinic.
The evidence suggests that CIGNA did meet its regulatory obligation to let Mrs L know that it 
hadnt been able to resolve her complaint within eight weeks and gave her referral rights to 
this service. But when it did issue a final response, it failed to investigate or address the 
particular point relating to billing the group policy. This meant Mrs L received chase-up 
letters from the clinic and she says she was threatened with legal action. Accordingly, Mrs L 
paid the outstanding amount herself. I dont doubt that Mrs L felt embarrassed by the letters 
she received and that she was worried about potential legal action.
And Ive noted that Mrs L says she tried to contact CIGNA via phone and email to resolve 
things, but either received no response or was passed to different departments. I appreciate 
this caused Mrs L additional upset and inconvenience, at a time when she was already 
worried.  CIGNA acknowledged its error in January 2023  around nine months after Mrs L 
first complained to it and agreed to refund the overpayment at that point. But as Ive 
explained, I think it couldve settled Mrs Ls claim fairly and resolved her concerns far more 
promptly than it did.
So I, too, think its appropriate that CIGNA should pay Mrs L compensation to reflect the 
impact and distress its claims handling caused her. Ive borne in mind the embarrassment 
Mrs L was caused by the clinic needing to chase her and Ive considered the time and 
trouble she was put to in chasing CIGNA with little apparent response. Ive also thought 
about the fact that I think CIGNAs error couldve been identified and rectified around nine 
months sooner than it was.Taking these factors into account, I agree that £300 is fair compensation to reflect the impact 
I think its likely CIGNAs errors had on Mrs L. While I understand she feels a higher award is 
warranted, as the investigator explained, our role isnt to fine or punish the financial 
businesses we cover. It appears that the amount of compensation Mrs L is seeking is around 
double the amount she overpaid and was chased for. And considering the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont find a higher award of compensation is proportionate 
to CIGNAs error, or the likely distress and inconvenience I think Mrs L was caused. 
Overall, I find that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience I think Mrs L was caused by CIGNAs handling of her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to:
Pay interest on the refund amount of CHF 1737, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from 
the date the overpayment was made until the date of settlement;
Pay Mrs L £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman