DRN-2704666
The complaint
Ms H and Miss M are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided them with a 
pro-rata refund for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy they held.
What happened
Ms H and Miss M purchased an annual-multi trip insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
They have explained they purchased this to cover trips to Europe within the year as well as 
for a trip they were planning to make further afield, as this had been a long-held ambition for 
Miss M. 
The policy was purchased on 13 January 2020, to cover any trips taken worldwide up to 50 
days in duration for Ms H and 35 days for Miss M. The policy started on 14 January 2020, 
and was due to end on 13 January 2021, a year later.
Ms H and Miss M paid £572.85 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance 
cover  which also provided cover for their declared medical conditions. The premium Ms H 
and Miss M paid for the standard level of travel insurance cover included a discount  of 
£49.10.
Because of the global pandemic, Ms H and Miss M have said it was no longer possible for 
them to go on holiday. And so, on 29 April 2020 Ms H and Miss M contacted the broker they 
purchased the policy through, to ask for their policy to be frozen, extended or for a pro-rata 
refund of the premium to be provided. 
Great Lakes said that it wasnt able to freeze or extend the cover Ms H and Miss M already 
had in place. It noted that Ms H and Miss M had already had the benefit of cancellation cover 
under their policy, since January 2020, when they first bought it. And, it said that after the 
14-day cooling off period in the policy, Ms H and Miss M werent entitled to a refund under 
their policy. 
However, Great Lakes said it recognised times were uncertain. And given this, it had made 
some temporary changes, which meant that whilst it wouldnt be freezing, extending or 
providing Ms H and Miss M with a cash refund for the policy, it would be able to offer them a 
credit voucher, which could be used in various scenarios. These scenarios are as follows;
A pro-rata credit voucher towards buying a 15-month annual policy, for the price of 
12 months, at the current market rate. This offer is currently indefinite, but may be 
withdrawn at any time;
A pro-rata credit voucher towards buying a deferred annual policy (12 months), at the 
current market rate. A start date for the cover can be chosen at any time within 12 
months of buying the policy. This offer is also currently indefinite, and may be 
withdrawn at any time;
A pro-rata credit voucher towards a UK-only annual multi-trip policy, where this is 
potential to upgrade the destination, subject to terms and conditions, at a later date. 
Great Lakes has now said that if Ms H and Miss M would prefer to use the voucher 
towards a single trip policy, under the same terms as the above, it would be willing to 
consider this, on request. 
Ms H and Miss M didnt feel the above offers were fair. They felt they would end up paying 
more money to Great Lakes, in order to take out a new travel insurance policy. And, they felt 
the offers were unreasonably restrictive, in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought that the offer Great Lakes provided was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. 
Ms H and Miss M didnt agree. They felt that they should be able to receive a pro-rata refund 
in cash, rather than by way of a voucher.
Because Ms H and Miss M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the offer Great Lakes has now provided in this case is fair. I 
understand Ms H and Miss M do feel strongly about this and would prefer a cash refund. But 
Ive explained why I think Great Lakes offer is reasonable below.
The right to cancel
When deciding a complaint, I must give regard to rules and guidance in relation to the issue 
complained about. There are rules and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an 
insurance contract. So, I have considered these.
The rules and guidance on cancellation of an insurance contract are set out in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)  provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), who are the insurance industry regulator. 
These explain that in insurance contracts like Ms H and Miss Cs travel insurance policy, 
there is a 14-day cooling off period. This allows a consumer to cancel the policy without any 
penalty  and without the consumer needing to give a reason to cancel the policy. This is 
what is called the right to cancel.With this in mind, Ms H and Miss M did have the right to cancel their insurance policy within 
14 days of taking it out. ICOBS explains that if a consumer has the above right to cancel, a 
consumer may be required to pay for the service they actually received under the insurance 
contract, and that this may include an amount of cover provided i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to time on risk.
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Ms H and Miss M didnt cancel their insurance policy within 14 days. Neither party disputes 
this. Under the above rules and guidance even if Ms H and Miss M had cancelled their 
insurance policy within 14 days, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the 
premium paid. Great Lakes had been on risk for the period from January 2020 to April 
2020. Ms H and Miss M recognise they did have cover during this period. But, feel that they 
should receive a monetary refund from when the United Kingdom declared its first national 
lockdown, in March 2020. They feel this would recognise that they werent able to use their 
policy after this date, and therefore the insurer wasnt on risk for the remainder of the policy 
term.
So, Ive thought about what theyve said here. And again, referred to the rules and guidance 
in place. ICOBS does also say that a firm can provide longer, or additional cancellation rights 
voluntarily  as long as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer 
as the above, unless the difference are clearly explained. 
The policy cancellation rights
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Ms H and Miss Ms policy, to see what this says 
about their cancellation rights. And Im aware these say;
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Given the above, Ms H and Miss Ms cancellation rights under their policy are more 
favourable to them than is required by the industry rules on the matter. They do allow for a 
refund after the 14-day period, at Great Lakes discretion, in exceptional circumstances. 
The above policy terms and conditions do give Great Lakes discretion to refund a premium 
to a policyholder, outside of the 14-day cooling off period, in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the individual policyholder such 
as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical conditions. I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider the Covid-19 global pandemic 
as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of situation, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The offer of a credit voucher
Having said that, I do understand that Ms H and Miss Ms need for this policy changed due 
to circumstances out of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of 
the policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding 
Covid-19.
As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Ms H 
and Miss Ms contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 
14 January 2020. 
Ms H and Miss M did have insurance from 14 January 2020, for travelling on any number of 
trips, up to 50 days in duration for Ms H and 35 days in duration for Miss M, that they may 
have taken, until 29 April 2020. Great Lakes has no way of knowing how many trips had 
been taken during that time. There may have been a large number of trips  or none. But, 
regardless of the number, if any, trips were taken, Great Lakes was covering the risk of a 
claim during the time the policy was in force. The policy would have covered any holidays 
Ms H and Miss M needed to cancel, because of specific events in the policy, such as if Ms H 
or Miss M had fallen ill with one of the conditions they had declared as pre-existing when 
taking out the policy.   
As our investigator has said, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is 
not returnable. So, regardless of what Ms H and Miss Ms cancellation rights were, it isnt 
unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. And its my 
understanding that Ms H and Miss M accept this.
But, after Ms H and Miss M cancelled their insurance policy, due to the impact of Covid-19, 
Great Lakes wasnt bearing any risk under the insurance policy for upcoming holidays  their 
holidays were cancelled, and there wasnt any claim for this cancellation. There also wasnt 
any risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other reason or any possibility of Ms H and 
Miss M making a claim whilst they were away on holiday. So Great Lakes no longer carried 
any risk of a successful claim being made. After the policy was cancelled, Great Lakes was 
not providing cancellation cover for any other holidays Ms H and Miss M might have had 
booked, or for any travelling that Ms H and Miss M might have done, whether abroad or in 
the UK. 
Given that this is a unique and unprecedented set of circumstances resulting from the Covid-
19 pandemic, I do think it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund 
of the premium Ms H and Miss M paid for their travel insurance policy  from the date they 
cancelled the insurance policy, and Great Lakes was no longer on risk. 
Great Lakes has agreed to provide a pro-rata refund to Ms H and Miss M, by way of a credit 
voucher, rather than by providing a cash refund. So, Ive needed to think about whether the 
offer made  the provision of a voucher  was fair. When Ive thought about what is fair here, 
Ive needed to think about what would be fair and reasonable to both parties  Ms H and 
Miss M, and Great Lakes.Having considered this, I do think Great Lakes offer to pay a refund by providing a voucher is 
fair. As noted above, I do appreciate the reasons why Ms H and Miss M felt their insurance 
policy was no longer needed, and should be frozen, extended, or a monetary refund should 
be provided. But Ms H and Miss M had entered into a contract with Great Lakes. They 
agreed to pay the premium detailed in return for Great Lakes accepting the risk of a valid 
claim being made under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk 
Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date. 
Ms H and Miss M have explained that theyll have to pay more for the insurance, and I 
appreciate that prices may increase. But I dont think it automatically follows that GL offer is 
unreasonable - in making the offer of a voucher GL is doing more than its required to do 
under the relevant regulations and the policy terms. So, I still think the offer of a voucher is 
fair. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Ms H and Miss M. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to 
that voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the 
circumstances. 
Great Lakes has offered to provide a voucher to Ms H and Miss M, that they can then use 
this voucher in the various different scenarios listed above.
Ms H and Miss M have said they dont think the offer of this voucher is fair, in the context of 
the global pandemic. They noted that it is uncertain when they will be able to go on holiday 
again, if indeed they will be able to, given their medical conditions. Ms H and Miss M has 
noted that that travelling again will also depend on a number of things, including the United 
Kingdom, and other countries vaccination programmes. So, they feel the offer of the pro-rata 
credit voucher, is unreasonably restrictive in the circumstances. 
I do understand Ms H and Miss Ms concerns in relation to current uncertainty. But Great 
Lakes offer does allow them options of purchasing a policy in the future and deferring this  
using the credit voucher towards this. And, I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes 
has offered are unreasonably restrictive. I also need to bear in mind that Ns H and Miss M 
were able and willing to travel with their declared conditions when they took out the policy. 
The value of the pro-rata credit voucher
Because Ive said it is reasonable for Ms H and Miss M to receive a voucher, Ive considered 
whether the value of the voucher Great Lakes has provided is fair. Great Lakes has provided 
me with information on how Ms H and Miss Ms premium is calculated. And this shows me 
that it doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation, and post-
departure cover. Instead, the premium charged to Ms H and Miss M is split equally across 
the whole period of cover.
It is for the insurer to decide the way it calculates the premiums it charges. And it will 
calculate this taking into account a range of different considerations and risk factors, such as 
previous claims experience, how likely it is a claim will occur, and its own commercial 
interests as a business. An insurer must just make sure it treats its customers fairly. 
Ive reviewed the information Great Lakes has provided me, which details its reasoning for 
calculating the premiums as it does. And I dont think there is any material unevenness in the 
incident of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip policies. And I am satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Ms H and Miss M differently, or unfairly, to any other Great Lakes 
customers in similar circumstances to theirs.The voucher value has been calculated based on Ms H and Miss Ms unused period of 
standard travel insurance cover. The premium Ms H and Miss M paid for this policy was for a 
period of approximately 366 days from 14 January 2020 to 13 January 2021. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes initially offered, was based on the policy being 
cancelled on 15 May 2020. But, following correspondence with this service, Great Lakes has 
now calculated its offer, based on Ms H and Miss M contacting it on 29 April 2020, to cancel 
the policy. This equates to the premiums equivalent to 260 unused days of cover from 29 
April 2020, until the original policy end date of 13 January 2021. As this offer reflects the fact 
Great Lakes was not on risk for the 260 days after the policy was cancelled, Im satisfied 
Great Lakes offer is fair. And, I wont be requiring it do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has now 
offered Ms H and Miss M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman