DRN-4295692
The complaint
Mr C complains about mistakes by Retirement Line Limited (RLL) that delayed his annuity 
application and meant he missed out on a higher rate than he couldve received.
What happened
Mr C said RLL failed to include details of both his pension policies on his application and 
wrongly told him he needed to have a UK GP for his application. These errors caused delays 
and meant he missed out on a higher rate of annuity. Mr C eventually purchased an annuity 
in spring 2023 but at a lower rate than he said he couldve got in late 2022.
RLL accepted that it had made some errors that caused delays but didnt think it had caused 
any financial loss. It accepted the error in failing to include both of Mr Cs policies but didnt 
think it should have known that a UK GP wasnt required for his application. Had it checked 
this with the annuity provider it would have taken just as long as it took Mr C to check. It 
offered £1,000 for distress and inconvenience due to its mistakes.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following:-
As RLL accepted it made a mistake I could consider an award for financial loss and distress 
and inconvenience arising from that mistake.
It was clear there was delay. In making an award for financial loss I was seeking to put Mr C 
back in the position I think he would most likely have been in but for the mistake. In order to 
help with that consideration I set out a timeline of events. I considered what would most 
likely have happened had there not been a delay due to the missing information and the 
issue of the need for a UK based GP.
In both cases if the delay caused by the missing information and confusion regarding a UK 
GP, is ignored, I didnt think there was sufficient time for Mr C to have accepted the higher 
annuity offer before the rates changed and therefore he was no worse off and there was no 
financial loss. I did not therefore consider the arguments as to whether or not RLL should 
have known there was no requirement for a UK GP as it made no difference to the outcome.
In considering what would most likely have happened I thought it made most sense to use 
the actual time periods that Mr C, RLL, the annuity provider and pension provider were 
working to at that time. I didnt think it was appropriate to use industry guidance time periods 
nor as RLL suggested the stated average turnaround times for a provider at that time. I said 
that as I did not need to use such time periods as I had direct evidence of what was actually 
happening at the time and these timescales were less than the industry guidance time 
periods and average suggested for the provider.
In short the process could have started on 7 November 2022 but the money needed to be 
received as cleared funds by the annuity provider by 28 November 2022 to secure the higher 
annuity. I therefore considered whether on balance that would have been possible.
As there were delays between the annuity and pension provider as a consequence of the 
mistake I asked the pension provider how quickly it would have acted on the claim and 
issued payment had all information been present. It said at the very best this would have 
been three working days, so I have used this time period.
Original Timeline
Day 1 - Monday 7 November 2022 Mr C called RLL to confirm he wanted a single life 
annuity with a 5-year guarantee. This offered an annual income of around £10,700. This was 
an enhanced annuity. RLL said it needed a UK based GP. This was queried and RLL said 
they would double check the GP requirement.
RLL start to complete the papers and advised that the fund value could fluctuate and there 
was no guarantee the application could be completed in the validation period of the original 
quote.
Day 3 - Wednesday 9 November 2022 Mr C chased RLL for the application form. He was 
informed he needed a UK based GP. Mr C emailed the annuity provider to check this.
Day 5 - Friday 11 November 2022 the annuity provider replied to Mr C that a UK based GP 
was not a requirement. They said they had notified RLL of this so that Mr C could submit his 
application. RLL agreed to email the form as he was not at home.
Day 6 - Monday 14 November 2022 the annuity provider prepared a quote for Mr C 
showing annual income of around £10,700 ( with 25% tax free cash of around £37,000). (It 
notes the amounts are not guaranteed but it stands by the rate for 10 working days after any 
change in annuity rates). RLL send on the quotes and request missing information.
Day 7 - Tuesday 15 November 2022 Mr C received the application form and completed and 
emailed it back the same day. The draft form only listed one of his pension policies but 
showed the combined value. He corrected this and added the other policy. (I have seen a 
copy of the application dated 15/11/22 with both policy numbers included). He confirmed he 
had used the NHS app to check which GP surgery he was last registered with and gave 
details. Mr C also asked funds were not accessed until his 65th birthday.
Day 10 - Friday 18 November 2022 RLL wrote to the pension provider asking for 
confirmation as to whether there are any special policy characteristics. e.g. higher tax-free 
cash, MVR exit penalties etc.
Day 10- Friday 18 November 2022, RLL sent the application form to the annuity provider 
but without the corrections Mr C had made.
Day 11 - Monday 21 November 2022 The annuity provider emails RLL and said they have 
verified Mr Cs ID and have requested funds (one policy is listed) if then says-
Please note that since your initial quotation, our rates have decreased. In order to secure the 
rate on your initial quotation, we need to receive all funds for the policy on or before 28 
November 2022. if we receive the funds after 28 November 2022 the revised income for Mr 
C will be £10,051.20 (previously £10,749.96), using the same purchase price and basis as 
your initial quotation.
Whilst I have requested the funds from the pension provider(s) specified on the application I 
cannot guarantee the funds will arrive by the required date. I recommend that you contact 
the pension providerDay 11 Monday 21 November 2022 message from pension provider to annuity provider 
questioning the large difference in value between the policy value and the amount needed. 
The annuity provider does not reply.
Day 16 Monday 28 November 2022 message from pension provider to annuity provider 
questioning the large difference in value between the policy value and the amount needed. 
The annuity provider does not reply.
(28 November the original deadline for securing the higher annuity rate.)
Day 20 Friday 2 December 2022 RLL called Mr C with an update. They confirmed the 
money was requested on 21 November 2022 but a bank statement was needed. It 
forwarded the email from the annuity provider which contained the reference to the 28 
November deadline that had now passed. Mr C complained that the deadline had gone and 
RLL had only requested one policy from the pension provider.
Day 21 Monday 5 December 2022 Pension provider contacts the annuity provider saying it 
is settling only the one policy claimed and confirming transfer of the money from one pension 
policy.
Day 22 Tuesday 6 December 2022 Mr C called RLL to complain. He was told the quotes 
are only valid for 10 days.
Day 22 Tuesday 6 December 2022 the annuity provider replied to an email from RLL of the 
same day. It noted the annuity provider had missed three alerts (21/11, 28/11 and 5/12) from 
the pension provider through the Origo system regarding the mismatch in value. Because of 
this the annuity provider said it could refund the money or hold the current (15 November 
2022) value until the second policy funds were received if the money from the second policy 
was received on or before 14 December 2022. If it was later they would consider the fact 
they had caused a delay in producing a final quote. The email was sent on to Mr C to ask 
him for a decision and to ask if he wanted the annuity provider to hold onto the funds.
Day 22 Tuesday 6 December 2022 Mr C called RLL to ask them to honour the quote. He 
was sent the release forms for the pension provider but again they were wrong with only one 
policy number listed. He was told RLL would check whether another form was needed for 
the second policy but quotes were only valid for 10 days.
Day 22 Tuesday 6 December 2022. Mr C instructed the return of the money as he didnt 
think they could meet the 14 December deadline.
Day 23 Wednesday 7 December RLL informed Mr C one of the pension funds had been 
transferred to the annuity provider. RLL contacted the annuity provider and requested the 
application and funds be returned to the pension provider once they are in the annuity 
providers account.
Day 26 Monday 12 December 2022 the annuity provider sent forms to RLL ( 14 December 
second deadline for receipt of funds from the second policy to receive higher
annuity rate.)
Day 31 Monday 19 December 2022 the annuity provider received the money from the first 
policy (date referred to in a later email from the annuity provider to the pension provider 
asking to return the money).
Day 33 Wednesday 21 December RLL advises annuity provider that the money received on 19 December for around £87,000 needs to be sent back and the annuity cancelled.
NB The Pension provider had since confirmed that had all the information been correct when 
it received the transfer request on Monday 21 November 2022 (Day 11) the very shortest 
timescale in a best-case scenario to process the claim, authorise the claim and send it, 
would be three days which would have been Thursday 24 November 2022 (Day 14).
Most likely timeline had there been no delay.
If I assumed there was no delay caused due to the missing information and the confusion 
about the need for a UK GP, then on balance based on the evidence, I thought the most 
likely timeline would be as follows.
Day 1 Monday 7 November 2022 Mr C calls RLL to go ahead. Had there not been any 
confusion about the need for a UK based GP Mr C could have started to act on the 7 
November 2022. Assuming the annuity provider issued a new quote on the following day,
Tuesday 8 November Mr C would have signed and returned the papers the following day 
on Wednesday 9 November 2022. (This follows the time pattern that happened from 14 
November)
Day 3 Wednesday 9 November signed papers returned to RLL.
It took RLL 3 working days from receipt of the papers from Mr C to send them onto the 
annuity provider (receipt Tuesday 15th November and sent on Friday 18 November).
Day 6 Monday 14 November 2022  three working days after receipt- Mr Cs application 
sent to the annuity provider who also sends it to the pension provider on the same day.
Day 9 Thursday 17 November the pension company would have sent the money from both 
policies to the annuity provider (this assumes a 3-day turnaround).
We know it took 11 working days from the date the money was sent (5 December) to the 
date it was received as cleared funds by the annuity provider (on Monday 19 December 
2022).
Thursday 1 December 2022 Applying the same timescale to this scenario the money would 
have arrived 11 days later on 1 December 2022.
On balance based on the evidence I didnt think Mr C would have been able to accept the 
terms available up to 28 November 2022. This timeline showed that even if there had not 
been any delay due to missing information or the need for a UK GP, and I assumed the most 
optimistic three-day turnaround by the pension company, the money would most likely not 
have arrived with the annuity provider before the 28 November deadline for the increase in 
the annuity rates. Mr C did not therefore miss out nor suffer a financial loss.
Even had Mr C decided to accept the further offer the annuity provider made on 6 December 
(to extend the time period for receipt of funds to 14 December) there was not sufficient time 
for the claim to be made to the pension company for the second policy (3 working days) and 
then the 11 working days needed for the money to clear the system before 14 December.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. It was clear Mr C was put to trouble 
chasing RLL, correcting its errors and checking facts with the annuity provider. I could 
understand this must have been frustrating for him and he lost confidence in them. I noted 
he later purchased an annuity direct from the annuity provider without using RLL. Having considered this impact I thought the payment of £1,000 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and I was not proposing any higher award and understood that payment had 
been made. If that was not the case I would ask Mr C and or RLL to confirm this when they 
responded to my provisional decision.
So in summary while I thought RLL made at least one mistake (omitting information about 
the two pension policies) Mr C has not suffered a financial loss for the reasons given. 
Because RLL made a mistake I could make an award for distress and inconvenience but I 
thought the current award was fair and reasonable. I did not therefore propose to direct RLL 
to take any further action.
I didnt propose to uphold this complaint or direct Retirement Line Limited to take any further 
action. I thought that Retirement Line Limited had acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
RLL didnt comment further.
In summary Mr C responded and said:-
He had entered into a contract with RLL and had been given a quote. They were 
aware of the timeline before the quote was given. It had failed in its duties. Mr C 
listed many duties including to act with integrity, due skill, care and diligence, to treat 
customers fairly and pay due regard to their interests. He also referred to the 
broader general standards imposed by the regulator and argued these would also 
include such things as timely execution, communication and efficiency. 
He felt my conclusion condoned as fact that any quote by RLL or any other financial 
institution was meaningless and worthless.
He did not agree with the timeline of events. He said his first contact with RLL was by 
phone on 31 October 2022 and he received an introductory email on 31 October 
2022. Various quotes were sent on 1 November and he confirmed the exact policy 
required on 4 November which he said was day 1. Assuming a one working day 
turnaround (which was achieved after he sorted the GP mistake) his completed 
application would be back with them by 8 November (Day 5) and the document 
request by 9th November (day 6). Assuming three working days to process the 
application with would be 14 November (Day 11). Assuming one working day, for the 
annuity provider to respond they would have been ready by 15 November (day 12) 
and there was sufficient time for the claim to be made to the pension company (three 
days) and then the 11 days to allow the money to clear. This would be 26 November 
(day 23). 
He also said that when he eventually dealt directly with the annuity provider in May 
2023 it took 16 days start to finish, using this timeline everything would have been 
done by 20 November.
He wanted further explanation as to why the GP mistake had not been considered 
further. It was not in the annuity providers terms and costs 6 days delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  I have carefully considered what Mr C has said and would comment as follows:-1. I agree with Mr C that it is very likely RLL is in breach of a number of the obligations 
imposed by the regulator and may well have breached several duties it owed to him. I 
have not considered these in further detail. That is because I have already concluded 
that the impact of those breaches did not cause a financial loss so would not change 
my conclusion on the likely timeline of events. I have already considered the award 
for distress and inconvenience whose purpose is to reflect the impact on Mr C (not to 
punish RLL).
2. I do not agree that my conclusion renders any quote by a financial institution as 
meaningless. Clearly had the circumstances been different and the annuity rate had 
not changed during the events it could have been possible to accept a rate offered. 
But that isnt what happened in this case.
3. I have carefully considered his points on the timeline of events. In particular he says 
it should start on Friday 4 November (day 1). I have considered the emails supplied 
by Mr C to support this. I can see that he did, as he says issue an instruction to RLL 
as to which annuity he wished to purchase on 4 November. But I note this was after 
the end of the business day and that RLL still needed to contact Mr C to complete the 
application on Monday 7 November just as my current timeline shows. So this does 
not make any difference to the actual or possible timeline of events which remains 
the same. So I dont agree that papers would have been received on 8 November 
and not 9 November as I assumed nor that documents would have been requested 
on 9 November and not 14 November for the same reasons. The remainder of the 
likely timeline remains the same for the reasons I have given.
4. I note also that in Mr Cs proposed timeline he assumes that after day 11 the annuity 
provider would act on 15 November and the funds would be received on 26 
November. But this assumes actual days whereas my timeline uses 
business/working days. This means that his shorter timeline could not have been 
achieved.
5. I note that when he dealt directly with the same annuity provider in early 2023 he 
achieved much shorter timescales and argues if these are used it would have been 
done in time. But I dont think it is appropriate to use those timescales. I say that as 
these were achieved at a different date and therefore different business 
circumstances and didnt involve a third party (RLL). In setting out a possible timeline 
to check for loss I am not seeking to assume the most optimistic timeline possible but 
to conclude, on balance, based on evidence, what would most likely have happened 
had there not been a delay. I am satisfied that what I have concluded is based on 
evidence of what was actually happening at that time  and is therefore fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
6. I do understand Mr Cs frustration that RLL didnt know whether a UK GP was  a 
requirement, then didnt check the situation and gave him wrong advice that one was 
needed. But I did not need to consider whether or not RLL should have known about 
the requirement for a UK GP and /or checked it. I say that because I have already 
assumed that there would not be any delay at all due to checking the GP requirement 
and missing the second policy information. So even if I did conclude that RLL should 
have known there was no need for a UK GP, it would not make the timeline any 
shorter than it already is.  That has already shown there was not sufficient time to 
accept the annuity quote before the rates changed. For that reason I did not need to 
make any finding about whether or not they should have known.
Neither Mr C or RLL dispute my assumption that the £1,000 for distress and inconvenience 
has already been paid, so I have not made any direction about its payment. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 I think that Retirement Line Limited has acted in a fair and reasonable manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman