DRN-3300408
The complaint
Mr B complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided poor customer service 
and he experienced long delays when he visited his local branch.
What happened
Mr B says he visited his local NatWest branch in September 2021 and had to wait over 45 
minutes before he was served, leading him to be late for another appointment that day. Mr B 
says while visiting the branch, another customer didnt wear a face mask, putting staff and 
customers at risk. Mr B says he feels the issues he has faced is down in part to the lack of 
staff in the branch, and in addition the poor service he received is also as a result of branch 
closures generally. Mr B wants an apology from NatWest and appropriate compensation for 
the time spent waiting in the branch and the poor service he received.
NatWest says they have apologised to Mr B and paid him £50 for the trouble and upset he 
experienced when visiting the branch. NatWest says its unable to establish why a customer 
didnt wear a face covering inside their branch that day, but some customers may have 
exemptions that arent always visible. NatWest have said there were a number of reasons 
why some branches have closed, and this was a considered business decision it took based 
on the way people now bank. NatWest says the Covid pandemic has meant some disruption 
to its services and staffing levels and were sorry Mr B was kept waiting on that day. 
Mr B wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says its not for this service to tell NatWest how it should run its business and 
NatWest had followed the Access to Banking Standards to minimise the impact of branch 
closures. The investigator felt the Covid pandemic would have contributed to the staffing 
levels on that day, even if Mr B had been given conflicting information about this. The 
investigator felt he was unable to comment on the actions customers take when visiting 
branches, but Mr B was free to leave and return at a different time if he felt uncomfortable. 
The investigator says NatWest had subsequently increased its offer of compensation by a 
further £75 and felt that was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view or accept the increased offer and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr B to have to wait as long as he did 
before he was served at the branch when he visited it. When looking at this complaint I will 
consider if NatWest could have done more to minimise the delays Mr B experienced when 
he visited his local branch, and if the compensation it has offered him fairly reflects that and 
the other service issues he experienced. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision, I have to take into account 
the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses and 
customers alike. 
Mr Bs complaint centres around the poor service he says he experienced when he visited a 
local branch of NatWest in September 2021, in particular he was kept waiting for over 45 
minutes before he was served. In addition, Mr B is unhappy that during that visit another 
customer wasnt wearing a face covering and because of staff shortages no one at NatWest 
was able to challenge this. Mr B is also unhappy with the number of branch closures, which 
he feels has only added to the poor service he generally receives. 
I understand the points Mr B makes and I have listened to the lengthy telephone 
conversation he held with a NatWest complaints specialist, and although Mr B doesnt 
accept the outcome of that discussion, Im satisfied his complaint was handled in a 
courteous and professional manner. 
Looking at Mr Bs point about the time it took him to be served at the branch. I can 
understand it would have been frustrating for Mr B to have to wait as long as he did, but its 
fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic here meant that many businesses faced problems 
that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, so its important that this is taken into 
account when trying to establish what is fair and reasonable to impartially resolve a 
complaint. And here, while Mr B has suffered some inconvenience as he had to wait longer 
than usual to be served, I am satisfied this was unavoidable due to the problems caused by 
the pandemic and not solely, as Mr B has suggested, that NatWest simply havent properly 
staffed its branches. 
Mr B says he has received conflicting views from NatWest staff about how the branches are 
staffed generally, but I cant see any evidence to support that, and in any event one member 
of staffs opinion wouldnt necessarily represent the staffing policy of NatWest as a whole. 
When looking at the issue Mr B raises about another customer not wearing the required 
faced covering, its not possible for me to say with any certainty that this customer held a 
valid exemption or not. But any business can only do so much to try to ensure customers 
stick to the rules and NatWest here would also rely on its customers to act in a responsible 
way, during this unprecedented time. Its fair to say that if Mr B felt uncomfortable in this 
situation he could have chosen to return at a later time. 
As far as the issue of branch closures are concerned, while I understand Mr B is generally 
unhappy about this and the reasons for NatWest taking this course of action, its not my role 
to tell banks like NatWest, how their business operating model must work. As the 
investigator has pointed out NatWest has taken steps to ensure, like most banks, that any 
disruption is minimised and part of that is by the provision of other services  for example 
online banking. Although Mr B doesnt feel the provision of online banking makes up for less 
branches - while I sympathise with his view, its not for me to tell NatWest, because Mr B 
feels that way, it must change its business model.
I understand that NatWest have agreed to increase the offer, for the time and costs Mr B 
incurred bringing the complaint to them, by a further £75 taking the total compensation 
amount to £125. Mr B doesnt feel this is acceptable, but here NatWest have apologised for 
the waiting time Mr B experienced. But given the background here, I am satisfied this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances for the reasons I have already explained. While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I will leave it with Mr B to contact NatWest 
should he now wish to accept the increased compensation offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman