DRN-4309941
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr M is being represented in this complaint by Ms M. However, for ease of reference, Ill 
refer to any comments made, or actions taken, by either Mr M or Ms M, as being made/done 
by Mr M.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. The agreement was for £12,314 over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments of 
£314.05 and a final payment of £324.05. At the time of supply the car was almost six years 
old and had done 68,158 miles.
Mr M says that the cars dashboard indicated there was a drive chain fault soon after he 
picked it up. He spoke to the supplying dealership, and they changed the fuel filter. However, 
Mr M said the fault persisted, and he asked to reject the car within 14 days of it being 
supplied to him. Which the dealership didnt agree to.
Mr M says he then took the car to an independent garage, who said the warning message 
displayed in the car could be an indication of a fault with the clutch. As the dealership 
werent responding to his messages, Mr M continued to use the car, and the clutch failed in 
early June 2022. It was recovered to his home address, where it remained, unused. 
Mr M complained to Startline about the issues with the car on 4 September 2022. They 
arranged to have the car inspected by an independent engineer. The engineer said there 
was a fault with the clutch that was present when the car was supplied. In their final 
complaint response letter dated 25 January 2023, Startline said they would arrange for the 
car to be collected and repaired by the dealership. However, Mr M was unhappy with this 
response, as hed lost confidence in the dealership being able to repair the car. So, he 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Startline had the opportunity to repair the car, and theyd agreed to 
do this. He thought this was reasonable in the circumstances, and he didnt think that Mr M 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said the car has been undriveable since June 
2022, which has affected his ability to work. This has caused him significant financial 
hardship and hes been unable to keep up payments on the car. He also said that he didnt 
trust the dealership to repair the car, as theyd sold him a car that wasnt fit for purpose, and 
this is the only option Startline have given him. To resolve the complaint, Mr M wanted 
Startline to allow him to reject the car, and to pay him compensation.
The investigator explained why Mr Ms comments, and the evidence hed sent relating to a 
later safety recall on the car due to an exhaust issue, didnt change his mind. 
Mr M said the car had been undrivable for months, so he didnt think Startlines offer just to 
repair the car was fair. However, on 10 May 2023, he consented to Startline recovering and 
repairing the car. But he said Startline said they were no longer willing to do this and wanted 
to repossess the car for non-payment instead.
The investigator reissued their view, saying that Mr M made Startline aware of the issues 
with the car in September 2022, but they didnt offer a solution until January 2023. And Mr M 
didnt have use of the car during this period. So, the investigator said Startline should not 
only recover and repair the car, but they should also refund Mr M the payments hed made 
between September 2022 and January 2023, plus statutory interest. The investigator also 
said that Startline could apply this refund against Mr Ms arrears, and any surplus should be 
paid to Mr M.
Mr M agreed with the investigator, but Startline didnt. They said theyd initially offered to 
contribute towards the cost of the repairs on 30 November 2022, and Mr M had rejected this 
offer on 5 December 2022, asking to reject the car instead. Because of this, they thought 
that Mr M had caused the delays so, while they were prepared to repair the car, they didnt 
agree that any payments should be refunded.
Startline collected the car for repair on 28 June 2023. However, instead of repairing it as 
agreed, they terminated the agreement and sold the car at auction. And theyve asked Mr M 
to pay the shortfall.
I issued a provisional view on 14 September 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
The car was supplied to Mr M on 30 March 2022. Mr M has provided evidence that there 
was a fault with the car shortly after it was supplied to him. The supplying dealership 
attempted a repair by replacing the fuel filter, and the car was returned to Mr M on 6 April 
2022. Mr M has also provided evidence that the fault reoccurred on 7 April 2022, and that, 
on 11 April 2022, he was told it was probably clutch related.Ive also seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 8 November 2022. In this 
report, the engineer concluded there was a fault with the clutch, and the fault codes that 
were identified and around the date of purchase did suggest that the clutch was approaching 
end of its in-service life that point and therefore the grounds of durability the sales agent 
should be responsible for contribution towards its repair.
The engineer also confirmed their duty is to the courts, not to the person who instructed or 
paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied this report is reasonable to rely upon.
Given what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a fault with the car and that this fault made the 
car not of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M.
Mr M has said he asked to reject the car within 14-days of supply, and the dealership 
refused to allow him to do this. While the investigator has referred to a 14-day cooling off 
period, and that this related to the finance agreement only, there doesnt seem to have been 
a full consideration of the CRA. And the CRA allows Mr M a 30-day short-term right to reject 
if the goods arent of a satisfactory quality (as was the case here). While Mr M hasnt 
provided any evidence that he asked the dealership to reject the car within 30-days, given 
what I have seen I dont doubt this was the case.
The CRA also allows for one chance at repair. And its clear from the evidence that the 
dealership attempted this repair in early April 2022, and the repair attempt was unsuccessful. 
Where a repair attempt has been unsuccessful, the CRA allows for the goods to be rejected. 
The investigator has argued that it was the dealership, not Startline, who attempted the 
repair, so Startline should be allowed a chance at repair. However, as its clear that Startline 
would only agree to a repair if this was carried out by the dealership, Im not in agreement 
with this argument, and Im satisfied the single chance at repair took place in April 2022.
Notwithstanding this, Startline did agree to repair the car, and Mr M consented to this repair 
taking place. But I think the timeline for this is important.
While the car broke down and was undrivable from early June 2022, Mr M didnt raise this 
matter with Startline until 4 September 2022. As such, I agree that Mr M was responsible for 
this three-month delay in the matter being resolved.
However, Startline didnt respond to Mr Ms complaint until 30 November 2022, and then this 
was through a third-party. Their response was that they were prepared to contribute towards 
the costs of repair, but only if Mr M had the car recovered to a garage, who could then quote 
for the repair costs. Given Mr Ms financial circumstances at the time, he was unable to 
cover the costs of this recovery. As such, he asked to be able to reject the car.
Startline replied with another complaint response on 25 January 2023. And they offered to 
have the car recovered to the dealership and cover all the repair costs.
Startline have argued that, because Mr M asked to reject the car in December 2022, after 
the offer to contribute to the repair costs, he was responsible for all the delays. And he 
therefore shouldnt be refunded any payments hed made.
I disagree with this view. Startline took three-months to make an offer that wasnt in line with 
the CRA, and almost two further months to make an offer that was. And Mr Ms rejection of 
the first offer (which Startline would reasonably know was less than he was entitled to under 
the CRA) doesnt mean the three-months it took them to make this offer was Mr Ms fault. 
Whats more, the engineer didnt inspect the car until two-months after the complaint had been raised, despite the car being in a single location and available for inspection the entire 
period.
As such, Im satisfied that any delays in dealing with this matter from September 2022 to 
January 2023 were entirely down to Startline.
Section 23 of the CRA states:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must 
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer
Given that it took Startline from 4 September 2022 to 25 January 2023 to make an offer in 
line with the remedies allowable under the CRA, during which time Mr M was without 
transportation, and this was causing him significant financial hardship; its arguable Startline 
failed to comply with Section 23(2)(a) of the CRA. And, in these circumstances, Mr M should 
be able to reject the car.
It wasnt until 10 May 2023 that Mr M agreed to have the car repaired. So, under normal 
circumstances, I would say that he was responsible for the payments to Startline during the 
period of delay he caused  June to August 2022 and February to April 2023. However, 
these are not normal circumstances.
I say this because Startline delayed in collecting the car until 28 June 2023. And then, 
instead of repairing it as agreed, its my understanding they terminated the agreement and 
sold the car at auction. And they are now pursuing Mr M for the shortfall of around £12,000.
For any of the reasons given above  the request to reject the car within 30-days, the failed 
repair in April 2022, and Startlines potential breach of section 23 of the CRA  I think Mr M 
had the right to reject the car. And, instead of repairing the car as agreed, Startline instead 
decided to repossess the car and terminate the agreement. In doing so, they waived any 
right they had to complete a (second) repair on the car. So, given this, Im satisfied that Mr 
Ms right to reject the car now applies. And Startline need to do something to put things right.
For the reasons already given, this agreement should be treated as Mr M rejecting the car. 
Mr M was also significantly inconvenienced by what had happened and has suffered 
financial hardship as a result.
So, I think Startline should:
treat the agreement as the car being rejected and end it on this basis;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file;
refund all the payments Mr M paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr M made 
the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr M an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality, and the 
financial hardship this caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Responses
Mr M agreed with my provisional view, but Startline didnt respond. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Startline havent said anything to the contrary, Im taking their comments to mean they 
dont object to my provisional view.
As such, the comments Ive received dont change my view about that Mr M should be 
allowed to reject the car. And, given this, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt now 
adopt my provisional view as my final decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons already given, this agreement should be treated as Mr M rejecting the car. 
Mr M was also significantly inconvenienced by what had happened and has suffered 
financial hardship as a result.
Therefore, Startline should:
treat the agreement as the car being rejected and end it on this basis;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file;
refund all the payments Mr M paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr M made 
the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr M an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality, and the 
financial hardship this caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Startline Motor Finance Limited. 
And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman