DRN-1643652
Complaint
Mr R has complained about 3 loans he took out through a company called Gain Credit LLC, 
trading at the time as Lending Stream. Mr R says it lent to him irresponsibly.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to LS in this decision.
Background
Mr R borrowed from LS as set out below. 
Loan Taken Out Amount Term Highest 
Combined 
RepaymentRepaid
1 15/05/2017 £100 6 months £44 29/01/2018
2 02/08/2017 £150 6 months £67 28/06/2018
3 22/08/2018 £200 6 months £69 outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
in respect of loan 3 only. LS accepted this finding, but Mr R didnt. Ive therefore been asked 
to make an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr Rs 
complaint.
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment 
amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
LS should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So LS was required to establish whether 
Mr R could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr R 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
LS told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to Mr 
R. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which LS should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some point, LS 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the complaint about loans 1 and 2 ought not to be 
upheld as they appeared affordable. Ive looked carefully at these and taken note of Mr Rs 
declared income. Ive also looked at what he said about his monthly expenditure. 
With this information, and bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the 
lending relationship, I think the checks which LS most likely carried out appear to have been 
proportionate for loans 1 and 2. I accept the depth of the checks were probably quite basic 
but Mr R had only just started borrowing and I think the information he himself provided 
about his finances would have made the lending look relatively safe. 
I therefore dont uphold the part of Mr Rs complaint relation to loans 1 or 2.
However, I think from the point of loan 3 things would have looked different and therefore 
required a more thorough and responsible approach. By loan 3, for example, LS ought to 
have been aware that Mr R had experienced difficulties with the first two loans. His 
payments had been somewhat erratic and hed taken longer than planned to pay them off. 
This was, in my view, clear evidence that he was having money problems and he shouldnt 
have been lent to any further.
As I said above, LS has accepted this and agreed to compensate Mr R for loan 3. And in 
accordance with our normal approach it intends to offset this payment against monies Mr R 
owes on outstanding debt. I see Mr R isnt happy about this but whilst its normal for 
consumers like him to be compensated for interest and charges  Im afraid he still has a 
responsibility to pay of the actual principle loan money he was given, because hes had 
benefit from that sum.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr R, LS should:refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan number 3 (only); 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat any payments 
Mr R made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Rs loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr R effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then LS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement;
If reworking Mr Rs loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
LS can use the total refund for loan 3 to offset this. And if there is still an outstanding 
capital balance then I would remind LS that it should take a sympathetic view when 
seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr R for the remaining capital.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loan 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Rs complaint and I direct Gain Credit LLC to put things right for him as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman