DRN-3977516
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the response from Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) following a claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). 
What happened
In 2012 Mr E purchased some solar panels from a third party Ill call S. He said he was told 
at the time that the panels would pay for themselves, by way of electricity savings and Feed 
In Tariff (FIT) payments. 
In August 2022 Mr E contacted Lloyds. He said the benefits of the panels had been 
misrepresented to him and he hadnt been given enough information or time to make an 
informed decision when he bought the panels. He asked that Lloyds reimburse him the 
money he paid under s75 of the CCA. 
 
Lloyds responded that because Mr E paid via cheque and the faster payment scheme, it 
couldnt help. 
As Mr E was unhappy, he brought his case to this service.  One of our investigators 
reviewed the case and explained to Mr E that he didnt think he could ask Lloyds to do 
anything further. The way Mr E had paid meant he didnt have any protection. 
As Mr E didnt agree, the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 makes the provider of any credit jointly and severally liable 
where there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of goods or 
services financed by the credit, provided certain conditions are met.
One of the conditions is that there is a direct relationship between the debtor, the creditor 
and the supplier. This is sometimes referred to as a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
agreement, and the formal wording is set out in Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
A DCS agreement refers to the arrangements that need to exist between the relevant parties 
in order to be able to make a Section 75 claim.
Im satisfied that it is fair for Lloyds to not consider Mr Es claim under s75, because there is 
no DCS agreement in this instance.  Mr E did not use credit to pay for his panels, and 
therefore there is no link between the three parties.  
Other Options
For completeness Ive also considered if there were any other avenues Lloyds could have 
used to help Mr E get his money back. There are other processes that can help a consumer 
reclaim their money if they feel their goods have been mis-represented. However, the 
methods Mr E used to pay, cheque and faster payment, are not covered by any of these 
arrangements. And as Lloyds has pointed out, Mr E would be out of time for any such action 
even if he had used different payment methods. So, whilst I sympathise with Mr E, I cannot 
fairly ask Lloyds to do anything further in this instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman