DRN-3214283
The complaint
Ms R complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Pet Insurance (UKI) has 
turned down her claim under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 1 December 2021. I intended to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider. Both parties have now 
responded, and so Im now in a position to issue my final decision. 
Ive copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
What happened
On 17 October 2019 Ms R took out a pet insurance policy for her dog N, who was then 9 
years old. The underwriter was UKI.
Earlier in October 2019 Ms R had taken N to the vet as she was concerned he was not 
himself and had been vomiting and shaking. During the treatment N was diagnosed with 
pancreatitis. Ms R made a claim under the policy in November 2021. The claim was declined 
by UKI because they said the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions or claims for 
conditions occurring within 14 days of the policy inception.
In June 2020 Ms R took N to the vets again as he was unwell, the vet examined N and noted 
a painful and swollen abdomen. After further tests it was found that N was suffering from 
Cholecystitis  the vets treated N for the condition. Ms R made a further claim on the policy 
but UKI declined Ms Rs claim again.
UKI said the 2 conditions (pancreatitis and cholecystitis) were linked so they felt that Ns 
condition was either a pre-existing condition or one first noted within the first 14 days of the 
policy. So they didnt pay the claim. Ms R didnt agree so complained to UKI. They didnt 
uphold her complaint and said they had declined the claim in line with the policy terms.
Remaining unhappy with the response from UKI, Ms R referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt it should be upheld because the evidence 
provided from Ms Rs vets didnt suggest the conditions were linked.
UKI disagreed and said there was evidence to show there were signs or symptoms of 
cholecystitis during the initial tests carried out by Ms Rs vet in October 2019, when N was 
being treated for pancreatitis. UKI also said they had spoken to the treating vets and they 
accepted that this was a pre-existing condition. Our investigator considered this information 
but it still didnt change her assessment. Because UKI didnt agree the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I dont intend to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to her, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Ms R is claiming for costs incurred for the diagnosis and treatment of cholecystitis in N, this 
condition is an inflammation of the gallbladder (an organ that stores bile from the liver). UKI 
say they acted fairly in declining the claim as it was declined in line with the policy terms.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that the exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions 
in a pet insurance policy is a fairly common exclusion. Its up to the insurer themselves to 
decide what risk they are happy to insure. I dont find this to be unfair as long as the 
consumer has been treated fairly.
The relevant policy terms say the policy wont cover:
1. Any claim for or in connection with any illness arising during the first 14 days of your 
pet being covered.
2. Any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition.
Within the policy terms it defines an illness as:
Disease, sickness, infection or failure or any changes to your pets normal healthy
state thats not caused by injury
And pre-existing condition as:
any condition or symptoms, or signs of injury or illness that happen or exist in any
 form before the pet was covered by this insurance.
Ms R provided us with evidence she is relying on as part of the complaint from her vet and 
the surgeon. In an email her vet said at no point has there been evidence of gallbladder 
obstruction or changes to the wall of the gallbladder which would be consistent with a 
cholecystitis.
And the treating surgeon said it is my professional opinion that N did have cholecystitis and 
not pancreatitisthere was no direct relationship between the cholecystitis and previous 
pancreatitis. He also said that pancreatitis and gallbladder problems were common in Ns 
breed and may present together or separately. So Ms R thinks the claim should be covered 
by UKI.
UKI say that there were signs and symptoms present within the first 14 days of the policy 
inception. UKI have sent us various articles and reports by their veterinary nurse about these 
signs and symptoms. UKI said the two conditions were linked and they have relied on the 
reports provided by Ms Rs vet.
UKI say the initial treatment provided by Ms Rs vet to N was consistent with the action 
needed to treat problems with the gallbladder because medication prescribed for N wasnt 
used routinely to treat pancreatitis. UKI felt that this was evidence to show abnormalities in 
the gallbladder prior to the policy inception date or at the least within 14 days of the policy 
inception.
UKI have provided us with further conversations they had with the treating vet and surgeon. 
UKI say both agreed with their explanation as to why UKI were declining the claim due to 
pre-existing conditions. Our investigator asked for a copy of the call recordings. UKI were able to provide a copy of the call with the surgeon and some internal notes of the 
conversation with the treating vet.
Ive considered all the information provided and Im currently persuaded that UKI were 
reasonable in declining the claim. The policy is clear about what isnt covered. Having looked 
at the vets notes on Ns medical history I can see whilst N was diagnosed with pancreatitis 
in October 2019, he was also being treated for issues with his gallbladder.
The note on 31 October 2019 says:
gall bladder  still thin walled and no obstruction but has a lot of sludge and mottled areas
particularly when viewed from right side.
And theres a following entry on 1 November 2019 that says:
advised plan for gall bladder today  add in destolit and denamarin. rescan gall bladder 5-6
wks if doing ok sooner if still grumbling.
In the vets notes there are numerous references that N was being treated for gallbladder 
sludge and N was on a specific medication which is generally used to treat the gallbladder. 
So I think these were potential signs or symptoms of issues with the gallbladder that UKI can 
rely on. Whilst I appreciate N wasnt diagnosed with cholecystitis until June 2020, the policy 
only needs for there to have been signs or symptoms and not a diagnosis.
Ive also considered the discussions UKI had with the treating vet and the surgeon. It was 
accepted by the treating vet that N showed raised gamma glutamyl-transpeptidase (GGT) 
parameters on 16 October 2019, which are generally associated to gallbladder issues, and 
that N had abnormalities of the gallbladder on the scan of 31 October 2019. Also, during the 
call with the treating surgeon, he accepted if there had been previous biliary tract disease 
either by bile sludge or bile infection, he could understand why it was considered a pre 
existing condition.
So overall, I dont think UKI acted inappropriately in this case when it determined that Ms Rs 
dog had a pre-existing condition or at least a condition that was present in the first 14 days 
from the inception of the policy. As such, UKI acted reasonably when it declined the claim.
UKI responded to say that they agreed with the provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add. 
Ms R responded but she didnt agree. I have summarised the main points she made below:
I hadnt considered the arguments and documentation contained in her initial 
complaint because I didnt reference this in my provisional decision.
UKI has never demonstrated the cause and effect between the pancreatitis and 
cholecystitis.
UKI misrepresented the oral statements of the treating surgeon and didnt speak or 
interact with the treating vet after the time of the pancreatitis.
The treating vet and treating surgeon maintain their position on the matter and so this 
information should be the only qualified opinion on the matter.
The presence of sludge isnt a medical condition and is present in most cases of 
pancreatitis.
The medication provided by the treating vet was to stop the pancreas affecting the gallbladder and not to treat the gallbladder itself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to not uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms R has said and the information she has provided 
throughout the complaint, and although I may not have highlighted everything shes said and 
provided in this decision, I want her to know Ive read it and taken it into account along with 
all the relevant rules and regulations. But overall Im satisfied UKI havent treated her 
unfairly, so I wont be asking them to take any other action.
I agree with Ms R point that UKI havent demonstrated that the cholecystitis suffered by N 
was linked to the pancreatitis that N was treated for in October 2019. But Ive also set out in 
my provisional decision why I feel there were signs or symptoms of the potential cholecystitis 
that UKI could rely on when declining the claim, from the veterinary reports provided by the 
treating vet. 
There are numerous entries that refer to the treating vets scanning the gallbladder, which 
continues to show built up sludge throughout the relevant period from October 2019 to June 
2020. The treating vets continued medicating N with destolit, which as mentioned is usually 
used to treat the gall bladder. I havent been provided any other persuasive reasons to why 
this treatment would have continued over this period of time especially as the vet indicated 
the issues with the pancreas were resolved in the notes entered in January 2020.
Ms R provided additional information from the treating vet and the treating surgeon. The 
treating vet reiterated her stance in her most recent email and while I note she says there 
wasnt any evidence of gallbladder obstruction which would be consistent with cholecystitis  
that is not what UKI needed to consider when deciding on the claim. 
UKI had to consider it in line with the terms which say they could decline the claim under the 
pre-existing condition exclusion if there were any signs or symptoms of a potential condition 
either prior to the policy starting or within 14 days of inception. Gallbladder sludge can be 
considered to be a sign or symptom of cholecystitis and this is also referenced in the medical 
review provided by Ms Rs as part of her initial complaint at Exhibit 16.
I also note the treating vet said she had no contact from anyone about Ns condition after 
28 June 2020. But the conversation UKI have referred to happened on 27 June 2020 and 
UKI have provided contemporaneous notes of the conversation they recorded at the time. 
During this conversation the treating vet confirmed preventative treatment was being 
provided for the gallbladder which was still ongoing at the time of the conversation. 
The further email provided from the treating surgeon doesnt add anything further to the 
previous information provided by Ms R and UKI. He says his stance remains the same, 
namely that N had cholecystitis and not pancreatitis in June 2020 and he didnt think there 
was a direct relationship between the two conditions. But as Ive mentioned above the 
medical history shows there was some issues with the gallbladder at the time N was 
assessed for pancreatitis in October 2019. UKI had a conversation with the treating surgeon 
during which he says:
direct line have made a judgement, we cant prove anything one way or the 
otherthe strongest opinion I could express was they [pancreatitis and cholecystitis] could be connected or they could be completely separatebecause pancreatitis and bile/biliary 
disease are common [in Ns breed] and they could arise separately or potentially one could 
lead to the other 
if youre saying there was pre-existing biliary tract disease when the policy was 
taken out I understand thatI think there was bile sludge we thought the dog had bile 
infection when we saw itits not clear cut and I appreciate youre running a business and 
you need to make a judgement 
As mentioned, the policy terms dont require a diagnosis of a potential condition they set out 
if there are signs or symptoms, they are able to rely on these to decline a claim. Throughout 
the relevant period N was suffering with sludge in the gallbladder which can be a sign of 
potential cholecystitis, so I dont think UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably when they declined 
the claim. 
I understand my decision will be disappointing to Ms R. And I sympathise with the situation 
this leaves her in. But while she had a pet insurance policy, this doesnt mean that UKI will 
be liable for claims that its policy doesnt provide cover for. So I wont be asking UKI to do 
anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman