DRN-3823489
The complaint
Miss E complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) caused unnecessary 
delays after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of LV involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LV.
What happened
Miss Es car was vandalised whilst parked outside her house. She made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy that she held with LV.
LV accepted the claim and on 15 July 2022 Miss Es car was taken to LVs approved 
repairer and the repairs were completed.
When Miss E had her car returned on 2 August 2022 she found it to be undrivable. LV 
organised for the main dealer to investigate the issues which were mechanical, and these 
were repaired as a gesture of goodwill. 
The car was returned to Miss E on 9 September 2022 in full working order, but it was very 
dirty. LV sent Miss E £100 to cover the cost of cleaning the car.
Miss E said she was not supplied with a courtesy car. And she said LV should waive the 
£350 excess on her policy due to the time taken for the return of her car.
As Miss E was not happy with LV, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold  the complaint. They looked into the case and said the time 
taken to repair the vandalism damage was reasonable and as the mechanical damage was 
repaired as a gesture of goodwill LV should not be penalised for the time taken to complete 
this. They said the policy excess was required to be paid by miss E as LV. And they felt the 
£100 paid to her to clean the car was fair.
As Miss E is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E made a claim on her motor insurance policy after her car was vandalised. Her car 
was taken to LVs approved repairer on 15 July 2022 for the repairs caused by the 
vandalism to be completed. It was returned on 2 August 2022 but although the repairs to the 
damage caused by the vandalism had been completed the car was no longer drivable.
LV arranged for Miss Es car to be taken to the main dealer to conduct an inspection of the 
reported mechanical issues. The main dealer concluded that there was a mechanical failure 
and it was not related to the vandalism damage. 
Miss E thought the mechanical failure had been caused by LVs approved repairer when it 
completed the repairs to the vandalism damage. However I did not see any evidence that 
this is correct. There was no explanation of how or when the mechanical failure happened
I looked at the  terms and conditions of Miss Es policy and saw that mechanical failure is not 
covered. Although it wasnt covered by her policy and the assessment determined the 
damage to the engine wasnt related to the vandalism incident, LV agreed to cover it as a 
gesture of goodwill. I think this was fair. 
Miss E was without her car between 15 July 2022 and 9 September 2022. I understand that  
as she relied on her car for her work this will have caused her inconvenience. I checked Miss 
Es policy and saw that it didnt include courtesy car cover. Therefore a courtesy car was 
correctly not provided. 
I looked at the time taken to complete the repairs to Miss Es car.
The repairs to the vandalism damage was completed within two weeks. I think this is a fair 
timescale. I accept that the car was not driveable when it was returned to Miss E, but I saw 
that LV acknowledged this immediately and it was taken to the main dealer two days later.
Miss Es car was then with the main dealer from 4 August 2022 to 9 September 2022. During 
this time the car was assessed, and a mechanical failure was found and then repaired, 
despite not being covered by her policy. 
 
LV said it accepted the mechanical work took a little longer than expected due to workloads 
at the main dealer.
I considered if LV should have supplied a courtesy car during the period of time taken for the 
mechanical assessment and subsequent repairs undertaken by the main dealer. And I think 
as LV covered the cost to repair the mechanical damage, despite them being outside the 
terms of the policy and not being related to the vandalism claim, that it cant also be 
expected to provide a courtesy car which is also outside the policy terms.
Miss E said she wanted LV to waive the £350 excess on her policy. An excess is standard in 
the car insurance industry, and the amount of excess was selected by Miss E when taking 
out her motor insurance policy. Payment of the excess was required after she made the 
claim. This is clear in the policy and I cannot insist that LV repay this. 
Its important to note that our service cant determine how the mechanical damage to
Miss Es car occurred. However I am satisfied that as LV agreed to cover the mechanical 
damage, even though it was not covered under the terms of her policy, it meant that Miss E 
had this damage repaired without any cost to herself and within a realistic timescale.
I think LVs payment of £100 to cover the cost to clean the car when it was returned in a dirty 
condition was fair. 
Overall I think LV have been fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this claim.
Therefore, although I understand Miss E will be disappointed, I do not uphold her complaint 
and do not require LV to do any more in this case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman