DRN-2274480
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP gave him unsuitable advice when they 
recommended him to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) occupational 
pension to a personal pension.
What happened
In 2017 Mr B was interested in releasing a lump sum from his pension to pay off some debts 
and put aside some emergency savings. Mr B had been severely ill a couple of years before 
which had triggered him into thinking about his situation and that he wanted to have some 
more money to spend until retirement and make life easier for him and his family. 
He went through a fact find interview with Portal over the phone to see what tax-free cash 
could be released. Mr B was 54 at the time, married and had been employed with his 
employer for over thirty years. His DB pension closed in 2014 and he had a money purchase 
workplace pension since then which both himself and his employer contributed to. In the call 
Mr B said he had debts of around £20-25k which he wanted to pay off as monthly 
repayments were about £600-£800. He had no disposable income or other investments or 
savings. However, he did mention that he would inherit about £250k when his parents died 
who were in their eighties at the time which would support his income later in life.
Mr B said after paying off his debts, he would like to keep some emergency savings and 
maybe put money into ISAs or premium bonds for him and his family as well as spend some 
more money on home improvements. He said he didnt have concrete plans yet, he simply 
wanted to see what lump sum was available first.
Portal went through an attitude to risk questionnaire which showed he was a moderately 
cautious investor. As Mr B wasnt 55 yet at the time, they said they would send him their 
recommendation a few months later, nearer his birthday, so that he could take the full tax- 
free cash lump sum and have Portals fees deducted from the remainder of his fund.
A few months later Mr B received a recommendation letter advising him he should transfer 
his DB pension. Mr B accepted this recommendation and transferred his pension and took 
tax free cash of around £54,000. The rest was invested in a drawdown portfolio.
About a year after the transfer, Mr B called Portal to request a further net withdrawal of 
£15,000 to pay for remaining home improvements on his house.
In 2018, Mr B complained to Portal through a representative who said Mr B had been 
misadvised. 
Portal rejected the complaint and Mr B referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He thought Portal hadnt made it clear enough that Mr B would likely 
be worse off in retirement if he transferred. However, he was satisfied receiving a lump sum 
was really important to Mr B. He acknowledged that Mr B could have taken benefits from his 
DB scheme at age 55 which would have given him a tax-free cash lump sum of around 
£43,500 and gross income of around £6,500 a year (which would have been taxed at 40%). 
However, he considered that Mr B likely would have wanted as much capital as possible and 
that he had also benefitted from further lump sum withdrawals later on which wouldnt have 
been available if he had taken DB benefits. Based on the calls the investigator had listened 
to he thought Mr B would have still wanted to proceed with the transfer if things had been 
better explained to him. Mr B had told Portal he was prepared to risk a lower pension in 
retirement as he had other provisions he could rely on later in life (his money purchase 
pension which provided generous death benefits and inheritance from his parents). 
Mr Bs representative didnt agree. He said Mr B could have had an ill-health pension which 
would have provided full benefits early. This should have been discussed. However, the 
investigator concluded that without evidence to the contrary, it was unlikely a full pension 
would be paid early unless Mr B had to stop working due to ill health. In the calls Mr B made 
it clear that although he had suffered with illness he was feeling better and had been back at 
work for 18 months. And he was planning to work until 67. The investigator thought Mr B 
likely wouldnt qualify for an ill-health pension as this usually required an employee to be 
unable to work any longer. And in any event, given the lack of disposable income and 
savings, it was very unlikely he could have afforded to retire this early (even on a full DB 
pension).
Mr Bs representative still thought the complaint should be upheld as the advice was 
unsuitable and they said Mr B wouldnt have transferred if his DB options had been made 
clearer. They said Mr B didnt need all the money he withdrew and still had some left in an 
account which shows the maximum lump sum wasnt the key driving factor.
As no agreement could be reached Mr Bs complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Portals advice was severely flawed. They didnt properly 
explain what benefits Mr B was giving up in the DB scheme and the full risks of transferring 
out to a personal pension. The starting point should be that a DB transfer is unsuitable for 
most consumers and this wasnt explained. And given the returns needed to match Mr Bs 
DB benefits in the personal pension and his cautious attitude to risk, I think he should have 
been told he likely would be worse off in retirement in the long-term if he transferred.
Theres no doubt that it was clearly important to Mr B to access a lump sum early, pay off his 
debts (which would allow him to accumulate some savings) and also spend some money on 
his family and home improvements whilst he was younger and could enjoy this. And he had 
no other means to achieve this other than to access his pension. One option was of course 
to transfer away from the DB pension, however another was to access his DB benefits at 55 
which also would have allowed Mr B to take a lump sum of around £43k together with an 
annual income of around £6.5k.
I cant see that Portal explored the option of taking benefits early from the DB scheme. When 
Mr B spoke to Portal during the fact find call he said he needed £20-25k to pay off debts. 
Whilst he also wanted to have some savings and spend some money on his family and 
home improvements, these plans were not set in stone at this point. So it could be argued 
that if Mr B had been clearly told that he would likely be worse off in the long-term if he 
transferred, he might have accepted a lower tax-free cash lump sum and taken benefits from 
his DB scheme instead. 
This would have still allowed him to pay off his debts and accumulate some savings with the 
money he saved on loan repayments and the income from the DB scheme which would have given him around an additional £325 per month in net income. He also would have 
been left with around another £20k to spend on home improvements or other expenditure.
However, I also considered that Mr B had requested his early retirement options from the DB 
pension a few months before he spoke to Portal. And Ive seen a letter addressed to him by 
the DB scheme in early 2017 which explains the tax-free cash and income he could have if 
took his benefits that year. Nonetheless he seemingly was attracted by the higher tax-free 
lump sum which he could obtain through a transfer. I note that in the fact find call with Portal 
Mr B also wanted confirmation that he would receive the full tax-free cash sum of around 
£54k. So I think maximising the tax-free lump sum did matter to him. 
In response to our investigators view Mr Bs representative said Mr B believed he would 
have to take a regular income if he took the lump sum from the DB scheme (which is 
correct). Their argument was that he should have been told about an ill health pension which 
would have made up the deficit in tax free cash and would have paid a higher income. I think 
the representatives response confirms that Mr B was more interested in a larger lump sum 
than a lump sum and a taxable income from the DB scheme.
I also havent seen any evidence that a full ill-health pension was an available option to Mr 
B. He was still capable of working and had no intention to stop. He said several times in the 
calls with Portal that he would work as long as he could. And I agree with the investigator 
that even on a full DB pension, Mr Bs income would have dropped from about £57k to 
around £16k which I dont think would have been feasible for him. 
During the fact find call and in the call a year later when Mr B requested a further lump sum 
withdrawal, he emphasised that he had his money purchase pension which he and his 
employer would have paid into for 15 years by the time he was intending to retire as well as 
a large inheritance which would provide him with money in later years. He also mentioned 
the generous death benefits his workplace pension gave him. His wife also had a local 
government pension. 
Its clear from the conversations I listened to that Mr B wasnt worried about his benefits 
once he retired from work. He appreciated that taking a lump sum early would lower his 
benefits in the long-term and he was prepared to take this risk as he had other provisions. 
However, from the evidence Ive seen and the calls I listened to Mr Bs main objective was to 
access funds between age 55 and 67 and enjoy his money then. He told Portal that he had 
thought about this for a long time and thought it was the right thing to do.
I dont doubt that Mr B might still have some money left from his withdrawals as he always 
said he wanted to build up some savings. However, the fact is that by September 2018, he 
requested a further £15k. At this point he said he had paid off his debt, had done home 
renovations and had about £2k left in savings. Given that Mr B would have saved money by 
repaying his loans, I think its fair to say he had spent his whole tax-free cash of around £54k 
within a year. And in the call, it was clear that taking out a further £15k was important to him 
to finish his home renovations and top up his savings.
I acknowledge that this is finely balanced case and of course I cant know for certain what Mr 
B would have done if Portal had given him more detailed information as they should have. 
However, I think on balance Mr Bs priority was to access large sums of money in his mid to 
late fifties to allow him to enjoy his money earlier in life, do up his house and support his 
family. I think this was more important to him than the risk of having lower benefits at a time 
where he was satisfied he had other provisions. I base my conclusions mainly on the calls I 
listened to and not on notes by Portal.I also havent seen evidence that Mr B was vulnerable at the time he took the advice as Mr 
Bs representative has claimed. He had been severely ill and was still being treated but had 
been back at work for 18 months and said himself he wouldnt die from his condition and he 
thought he would work another 12 years. I didnt get the impression from the phone calls I 
listened to that Mr B was vulnerable or was persuaded to do anything he didnt want to do.
Overall, Im not convinced Mr B would have chosen a lower tax-free cash amount from the 
DB scheme even if this meant he had a higher pension later on in life. I think Mr B would 
have likely requested to transfer in any event and therefore would be in the same position 
hes in now.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman