DRN-3386560
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent her money on a high interest 
loan which she was unable to afford to repay, and that it refused to freeze interest payments 
when she entered a debt management plan.
What happened
PML provided a loan to Mrs N on 30 October 2017, of £5,000 repayable over 48 months at 
the rate of £202 a month. 
Mrs N said she couldnt afford the repayments on the loan and had to take out a further loan 
to keep up with her repayments. She has since entered into a debt management plan. She 
complained also that when she approached PML to freeze interest payments it declined to 
do so, saying it was not obligated to stop or reduce the contractual interest due on the loan. 
As a result of her debt management plan she reduced the payments on the loan to around 
£44 a month. I understand that in June 2021 the loan was sold on to a third party.
PML assessed the affordability of the loan by going through Mrs Ns online application with 
her in detail over the phone, carrying out a credit search and obtaining evidence of Mrs Ns 
income from employment, child maintenance and benefits including tax credits. Mrs N had 
an outstanding loan with a balance of £3,171 which was paid off by the new loan, with the 
balance of £1,829 being transferred to her bank account. PML assessed that she had a 
monthly disposable income of around £230 after payment of all her outgoings including the 
new loan instalments.
Our adjudicator said that although Mrs N was to use the loan to pay off another loan, she 
would have still had to pay a significant proportion of her income each month towards her 
remaining credit commitment and this new loan. So, she said there was a significant risk that 
Mrs N wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow 
again. So, she thought it unlikely that Mrs N wouldve been able to sustainably meet her 
repayments for the loan over the term. 
PML disagreed. It said it had conducted a thorough review of Mrs Ns income and 
expenditure by both taking Mrs Ns testimony, and then corroborating that with her payslips 
and bank statements. It said it had taken all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry 
practice into account. In light of the information obtained and verified during the application 
process, there was no reason to believe that Mrs N would be unable to afford and sustain 
the monthly payment of £202 for a term of 48 months.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did PML complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs N would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs N would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required PML to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Ns ability to make the repayments under the agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so PML had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that PML had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs N undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs N. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Mrs N had a low income, and the loan required a considerable commitment from Mrs N. So 
PML should have carried out a thorough assessment of Mrs Ns financial circumstances at 
the time of the application.
Ive noted what PML says about the affordability assessment that it did when Mrs N took out 
the loan. Mrs Ns stated purpose for taking out the loan was to reduce her outgoings towards 
Christmas and to pay off one of her loans. She had two loans outstanding, for £3,171 and for 
£24,427. She was paying monthly instalments of respectively £162 and £457 for those 
loans. The new loan paid off the smaller loan, the balance of £1,829 being transferred to 
Mrs N. Although the PML loan was a lower interest rate, it effectively extended the term of that loan by another four years.
PML assessed that, with benefits, maintenance and tax credits Mrs N had a monthly 
disposable income left of about £230 when taking into account all her outgoings including 
the new loan. I think it is fair to take into account those other sources of income where they 
appeared to be stable for the period of the loan. I understand that Mrs Ns position changed 
and she lost the tax credits soon after receiving the loan. But I can only look at the position 
as it was at the time of applying for the loan.
However I have difficulty understanding how the new loan benefitted Mrs Ns overall 
situation. It didnt reduce her outgoings, it increased them by £40 a month. And although 
Mrs N had a cash injection in the run up to Christmas which was no doubt helpful to her, it 
didnt help her overall financial situation. 
With regard to Mrs Ns disposable income, its not just the pounds and pence that we 
consider in terms of affordability. It would have been tight for her, bearing in mind she had to 
run a car. Before the loan she had credit commitments of around 35% of her income. I think 
that that would have been unlikely to be sustainable over the period of the loan. She had no 
other loans or credit she could pay off to bring down her outgoings, so the new loan 
increased that to almost 38% of her income. 
So I think the loan was unaffordable. It increased Mrs Ns credit commitments and didnt 
achieve her desire to reduce her outgoings. I dont think PML made a fair lending decision.
As for the request to freeze the interest payments, I dont know what the full arrangement 
was in respect of Mrs Ns debt management plan, so I cant comment on the interest 
position. Generally if a customer has difficult financial circumstances, businesses are 
expected to be sympathetic and shouldnt for example impose interest charges that make it 
impossible to pay off the loan within a reasonable period of time. However in light of my 
findings and my final decision below, the question of the interest and any other charges on 
the loan will be dealt with.
Putting things right
Mrs N has had the capital payment in respect of both loans, so its fair that she should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned I think PML should refund all interest and charges as 
follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mrs N as payments towards the capital amount of £5,000.
If Mrs N has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, PML should come to a reasonable repayment 
plan with Mrs N.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mrs Ns credit file.
As PML sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can to buy it back - 
if it cant then it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress and it needs to 
work with the third-party to bring about the steps above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Progressive Money Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman