DRN-1576421
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr S former mortgage with Santander UK plc. Hes unhappy at 
having to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) when he redeemed his mortgage in 
summer 2019. He says the fixed-rate deal he took in July 2017 was presented to him as a 
two-year deal when in fact it ran until 2 October 2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that during the telephone conversations he had with it in June and July 2017 to 
choose a new product, Santanders call-handler referenced the product as a two-year deal 
and said it would run until October 2019. But thats not what the complaint turns on. Thats 
because Mr S only became bound by the terms of the new product after theyd been 
confirmed to him in writing and hed agreed to accept them. 
This process was done by way of a letter dated 10 July 2017, which said, on the first page:
Please ensure you and all other parties to the mortgage read this Conversion Offer 
carefully, as the details set out in the Conversion Offer, including the mortgage conditions, 
form part of your mortgage contract.
For the conversion to take place, one of the account holders must confirm their Acceptance 
on behalf of all account holders, after obtaining their consent.
You will have 14 days to review, download or print this Conversion Offer. However, your 
Acceptance must be provided before the deadline specified within the email we sent you, 
this deadline is also confirmed online. Once the deadline has passed, this Conversion Offer 
will no longer be available to you.
Once we have received your Acceptance, we will progress your product transfer and we will 
send you an email or text message to confirm the date your loan(s) will be converted onto 
the new product.
So Mr S had to confirm his acceptance of the conversion offer before Santander would put 
the new fixed rate deal in place. 
In asking for an ombudsman to decide his complaint, Mr S says:
.there is nowhere in the paperwork which states the contract was for 2 years and 3 
months, just a 'product end date' and this is the main reason I feel the product was mis-sold!
Ive looked at the conversion offer, and Im afraid I cant agree with Mr S on this. The 
duration of the product, and the liability for an ERC that comes with it, is referenced in 
several different parts of the offer.
In section 4 on page 3, under the heading Description of this mortgage, the interest rate is 
described as a Fixed rate of 3.29% until 02/10/2019. 
In section 6 on page 5, under the heading What you will need to pay each month, the offer 
says that, on the assumption conversion takes place on 24 July 2017, Mr S will pay 26 
payments at the fixed interest rate of 3.29.
It can be inferred from this that if the first payment at the fixed rate was the one taken in 
August 2017, the final one would be the one taken in September 2019, which is consistent 
with the product ending at the beginning of October 2019.
In section 7 on page 6, under the heading Are you comfortable with the risk?, the offer 
says:
The interest rate on the loan is fixed until 02/10/2019 and so the monthly payment will not 
change with interest rate changes until after this date.
Finally, in section 10 on page 9, under the heading What happens if you do not want this 
mortgage any more?, the offer specifically states that an ERC is payable on redemption up 
to 2 October 2019.
I cant know how much attention Mr S paid to the conversion offer, or how much of its 
contents he assimilated, before agreeing to take the new fixed-rate product. But Im satisfied 
Santander told him everything he needed to know about how long the fixed rate and the 
ERC would apply for, and it did so in a format approved by the regulator. 
Mr S sought to repay his mortgage in summer 2019, and Santander (rightly, and in 
accordance with the contract) said it would apply an ERC. Knowing this, Mr S nonetheless 
went ahead with his sale and redeemed the mortgage. That was his right of course, and he 
had his reasons for doing so. But it was also his choice, and Mr S must accept the 
consequence of the choice he made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Santander UK plc. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman