DRN-2323781
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays has recorded a CIFAS marker against him, which he 
feels is unfair. Hed like the marker to be removed.
What happened
Mr A had a large sum credited into his Barclays account. The sending bank confirmed that 
this payment in was a scam payment. However, by this time, the funds had been withdrawn 
from the account, through a combination of ATM and online transfers. Barclays then 
recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr A.
Mr A has said he wasnt aware the money had been credited to his account. Further, he did 
not know about the transactions withdrawing/transferring it. Hes explained that his card 
hadnt been lost and that nobody else knew his PIN.
Mr A has said that Barclays never called him to discuss matters, or to tell him it was putting a 
block on his account. Since this happened, hes been unable to open a standard bank 
account, and has had to use a credit only online account.
Mr A has explained he wasnt able to chase Barclays, because between 2014 and 2019 he 
didnt have any identification, as he didnt have a visa and had lost his passport. But once he 
had his new identification, hed gone into a branch on a few occasions, but then not heard 
anything back from Barclays.
Barclays has said that the sum was credited to Mr As account, then withdrawn within 24 
hours. As it was unable to obtain an explanation for this, it closed the account, in line with its 
terms and conditions. 
Barclays has explained that Mr A could have visited a branch without photo identification. 
But it has no record of this happening.
Finally, Barclays has said that it took too long to look into Mr As complaint, so has offered 
him £150 compensation for this. It has confirmed this offer remains open.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He explained that the regulations 
relevant to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). These 
explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised if the payer has 
consented to it. The payment service provider must show the payment was authenticated. 
But its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the card and PIN were used, or 
the personalised set of procedures needed to initiate a payment; that doesnt necessarily 
mean that the payment transaction was authorised by the account holder. But account 
holders can become liable for unauthorised payments when they havent met certain 
obligations. 
Our investigator noted that it wasnt in dispute that the funds paid into the account were 
fraudulent. So he looked at what had happened with the withdrawals of the sum. He said 
that money was withdrawn from Mr As account through both ATM withdrawals and online 
money transfers. The ATM payments were all made with his genuine card and authenticated 
with his PIN. CCTV footage was not available. And there was no explanation of how a third 
party could have gained access to his card and PIN without his knowledge.
As regards the online transfers, these were authenticated by PIN Sentry. This is a device 
which would generate a password which is then used to log on. Every online login would 
require this. Barclays provided an online log in history going back to February 2013,
showing all the logins which were undertaken in that time. During all this time there was no 
sign that a third party has access to Mr As account through this method, although Mr A has 
said he was unaware of having the PIN Sentry device.
Our investigator said he was unable to say for certain what happened, so he had to rely on 
what he thought was most likely. If Mr As online banking had been compromised from 
February 2013, he thought he would have noticed. He couldnt see how a third party would 
benefit by logging onto the account multiple times, but taking no action. So he thought it 
most likely that these logins were done by Mr A or by someone with his authority.
Our investigator also thought it unlikely that Mr As card, PIN and PIN Sentry device could all 
have been compromised together. This was because Mr A had given no indication that his 
card was ever lost, or how a third party could have gained knowledge of his PIN.
Given this, our investigator didnt think Barclays had been unfair in recording the CIFAS 
marker. He noted this would remain for six years.
Our investigator also looked at why Barclays hadnt called Mr A after he went into the
branch in 2019. This was unclear, but he considered the £150 Barclays offered 
for its delays to address this point. 
Mr A disagreed, so his complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr A would like to speak to me. However, I havent considered that 
necessary, as I have access to, and have reviewed, everything he has submitted. This 
includes telephone calls.
Ive looked carefully at what happened. Unfortunately, its not possible for me to know 
definitively. So, taking into account what I think most likely, Ive considered whether Barclays 
acted fairly. I think it did. Ill explain why.
Its not been disputed that the funds received into Mr As account were connected to fraud. 
These were withdrawn within 24 hours. I agree with our investigators conclusion on this. I 
cannot say for sure whether Mr A withdrew the funds, or someone with his authority, or 
someone else entirely. But there is no explanation as to how the withdrawals and transfers 
could have happened. I know Mr A feels aggrieved that he cant provide evidence to support 
his case, and I know this must be frustrating. But, for the same reasons as our investigator 
gave, I have to decide whether it was unfair of Barclays to take the action it did regarding the 
account and CIFAS marker. And in the absence of any evidence of Mr As account being 
compromised, I think it was reasonable.
I turn now to the delays in Barclays dealing with Mr As complaint. I agree that this was poor 
service, and would have been upsetting and inconvenient for Mr A. Barclays has offered £150 compensation in recognition of this. Im satisfied this is fair and remains open to Mr A 
to accept, should he wish to.
My final decision
Its my final decision that the £150 compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered is 
fair and reasonable, and Im not asking it to do anything further. I leave it to Mr A to 
decide whether he wishes to accept this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman