DRN-1692366
The complaint
Mr C says Arrow Global Limited has treated him unfairly because it pursued him for a debt 
he says it knew he didnt owe.
What happened
Mr C had an account with a bank. In 2013 there was a transaction on his bank account 
which Mr C disputed. In 2015 the bank sold the debt on Mr Cs account to Arrow having 
placed a default on Mr Cs credit file in relation to that account.
Arrow pursued Mr C for the debt. This included a number of court appearances. In the end 
Arrow paid the recommended amount under the court decision, the debt is made closed so 
that Mr C won't be pursued for it, and they have removed the default from his credit file as a 
gesture of goodwill. Arrow also offered Mr C £150 due to the initial mix up with the cheque 
they sent him.
Mr C complained to Arrow and it said that it had treated him fairly overall. Mr C disagreed, so 
he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator decided that there were a number of areas which this service couldnt 
consider in this case due to the Court having decided on them. The Investigator also decided 
that in the parts of the complaint we could consider that Arrow had treated Mr C fairly. As Mr 
C remains unhappy so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrow and Mr C dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is most 
likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of probabilities.
I should start by saying it is not for this Service to be deciding on what a Court has already 
decided. This service is a free, fair and impartial service designed to settle disputes without 
the need of going to Court. So wont be considering matters before the court. But I can 
consider whether Arrow has treated Mr C fairly or not.
Furthermore this decision is with regard to Arrow and Arrow solely. Mr Cs complaint about 
the bank is being dealt with separately and it was the bank that decided there was a debt 
and placed a default on Mr Cs credit file. Accordingly this decision will not decide on 
whether the debt was fairly owed by Mr C as that dispute sits outside of this decision. 
Similarly this decision will not decide on whether the default was fairly applied as that sits 
with the bank also. Nor will this decision comment on the courts decision or the legal 
proceedings that took place. 
Lastly Mr C should remember that this entire matter originated from a dispute he had 
regarding the purchase of a car and how that transaction went with the car seller. There 
have been a large number of parties embroiled in the wider dispute and it might be tempting 
to view them altogether. But this is a decision about Arrow only.
I appreciate that Mr C will find this frustrating, but I hope Mr C will appreciate that Ive 
explained the reasons why this decision will only consider this limited part of this broader 
dispute that Mr C has had regarding what happened.
Arrow purchased the debt in December 2015 from the bank. Having considered the 
evidence from the time Im not persuaded that Arrow was aware at that time (2015) of Mr Cs 
dispute with the bank some time beforehand regarding the transaction in question. As a 
consequence Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in then trying to recover that debt from 
Mr C. 
Arrow then used a number of other parties and strategies in order to try and recover the debt 
from Mr C. This culminated in it starting legal proceedings against him. Mr C says that Arrow 
shouldnt have pursued him for the debt because it was fully aware I never owed (it) 
throughout. But having reviewed everything here I am not persuaded that Arrow was 
pursuing him for a debt that it thought Mr C didnt owe. Having considered the matter and 
what has happened it is clear Arrow felt the debt was owed and that since the purchase of 
the debt it was owed to Arrow. So although I appreciate that being chased for a debt you 
dont feel you owe must feel unfair I am not persuaded Arrow acted unfairly in pursuing Mr C 
for the debt.
During Arrows involvement it became aware that Mr C disputed the origin of the debt. 
Consequently Arrow got in contact with the bank, who provided Arrow with its position on the 
matter and with its documentation and correspondence with Mr C from when he complained 
to the bank. It is clear the bank felt that Mr C was responsible for the transaction and 
accordingly owed the debt. So Im not persuaded Arrow did anything wrong in continuing to 
pursue Mr C for the debt after it knew Mr C disputed the origin of the debt. After all it is not 
disputed that the transaction in question had gone through Mr Cs account and that Mr C 
accepts that he had made a payment to the other party around the same time. So there were 
at least some grounds to some extent to consider that the debt was valid, and that Mr C 
owed it to Arrow.
After the Court case finished I can see Arrow wrote to Mr C in September 2019. In this letter 
it stated that in order to bring the matter to an amicable resolution it would remove the 
default from Mr Cs credit file. It says it was doing this as a gesture of goodwill. The default 
has since been removed. Bearing in mind that Mr C is no longer being pursued for the debt 
and that there is no default on his credit file Mr C is now in the position he would essentially 
be in had all this not happened. Albeit having had to contend with the matter which I can 
appreciate must have been taxing over such a prolonged period.
I note that there was also some issues surrounding the issuance of a cheque and that Arrow 
paid £150 to Mr C as a remedy for that. Considering what happened there I think thats a fair 
solution to that issue. So I wont be asking Arrow to do anything further on that particular 
matter.
For the sake of completeness Ill address some of Mr Cs more recent arguments. Mr C says 
that Arrow should have known during the court proceedings that it shouldnt have continued 
and that Arrow was trying anything to reduce their liability to me. Having considered the 
matter I dont think Arrow was doing anything unfairly. It was trying to recover the debt it felt 
it was owed.Mr C feels that Arrow has been trying to discredit him and his wife throughout. I am not 
persuaded by this. I dont see any persuasive evidence of deliberate wrongdoing or 
deliberately treating Mr C unfairly by Arrow. I appreciate that being pursued for a debt 
wouldnt be a pleasant experience. But is clear that Arrow had grounds for believing Mr C 
owed it the debt. Just because Mr C felt this was unfair doesnt make it unfair or that Arrow 
were treating him unfairly.
All in all Im satisfied that Arrows hasnt treated Mr C unfairly and that it has fairly resolved 
the issues that needed remedy. So I dont think it needs to do anymore.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision. Mr C is at liberty not to accept this 
decision if he doesnt want to. It may be that he wishes to continue his dispute with Arrow 
through other avenues. However this final decision ends this Services part in Mr Cs dispute 
with Arrow.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Arrow Global Limited. It 
has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman