DRN-2350959
The complaint
Mrs C complains that NRAM Limited has not fully compensated her for the mis-sale of a 
payment protection insurance policy. Mrs C also wants to be compensated for the way 
NRAM dealt with her complaint. 
  
What happened
In November 2006 Mrs C was sold a monthly premium PPI policy to protect her mortgage. 
The policy ran until January 2011.
Mrs C later complained to NRAM about the sale of the PPI policy. In March 2012 NRAM 
wrote to Mrs C and offered £3,416.45 compensation. This represented a return of all 
premiums paid plus compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple.
Mrs C did not respond to NRAMs offer, my understanding is that she had moved home and 
never received it. So the compensation was not paid to her.
In January 2017 a representative of Mrs Cs approached NRAM with a new complaint about 
the sale of the PPI.
In February 2017 NRAM wrote to Mrs Cs representative to say the complaint had already 
been dealt with. My understanding is that the NRAM didnt check to see if the compensation 
had been paid at this point.
In January 2019 Mrs C asked a second representative to approach NRAM. This time NRAM 
told the representative that Mrs C had already been paid compensation for the mis-sold PPI.
In 2020 NRAM offered to pay Mrs C the compensation it offered her in 2012. However it did 
not offer to update the 8% compensatory interest. In fact NRAM was now required to deduct 
tax from the compensatory 8% interest which it hadnt done in 2012. So it now offered to pay 
Mrs C £3,269.49. My understanding is this amount was paid to Mrs C.
Mrs C remained unhappy with NRAMs offer and asked this service to step in.
Following our involvement, on 6 March 2020 NRAM wrote to Mrs C and agreed to calculate 
and pay an additional amount of 8% compensatory interest to cover the period between 
February 2017 to date. This figure was £543.48 net of tax. NRAM also offered to pay Mrs C 
£150 for the errors it had made.
But NRAM declined to calculate and pay any compensatory interest for the period between 
March 2012 and February 2017.  
An adjudicator from this service wrote to NRAM. In his letter the adjudicator stated that 
NRAM should pay Mrs C 8% compensatory interest for all the time she was out of pocket. 
The adjudicator also requested that NRAM pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience its 
errors caused her to experience.
In May 2020 NRAM agreed to pay compensatory interest of 8% for the full amount of time 
Mrs C was out of pocket. So NRAM agreed to pay Mrs C an additional £1,387.31 net 
interest. It also agreed to pay Mrs C £400 for the trouble and upset she had experienced.
Ultimately this was paid to Mrs C. So Mrs C has now received a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums she paid plus compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple (net of tax) from 
when she paid the premiums to when she received payment. NRAM has also paid Mrs C 
£400 for the trouble and upset NRAMs errors caused her to experience.
Mrs C remained unhappy with the compensation paid to her. Mrs C told us of the financial 
difficulties she had experienced while waiting for the compensation and the effect NRAMs 
errors had on her health.
The adjudicator reviewed Mrs Cs testimony and the evidence she supplied. 
In September 2020 the adjudicator issued his findings on the complaint. He recommended 
that NRAM pay Mrs C a further £600 for the poor customer service provided to Mrs C and a 
further £300 to compensate her for the time, cost and inconvenience she had experienced.
NRAM replied to say it felt this was excessive but agreed to pay Mrs C a further £400 which 
Mrs C declined to accept.
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
NRAM has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mrs C. In this decision Ive looked at how NRAM 
has compensated Mrs C for the mis-sale of the policy and how it dealt with her complaint.
NRAMs Calculations
Mrs C was sold a regular, monthly premium PPI policy. Where this kind of policy was mis-
sold Id expect the business to refund all the premiums paid. And Id expect the business to 
pay interest calculated at 8% simple to compensate the consumer for the time theyve been 
out of pocket. The interest should be calculated on each premium from the time they paid it 
until the time they get the money back. 
In this case I note Mrs C thought the policy began when she took out her mortgage in 2005. 
Mrs C said she was told the policy needed to be in place before her mortgage would be 
approved.  But Ive seen screenshots from NRAMs internal systems and other call notes 
from the time which show the mortgage began in 2005 but she declined the PPI at the time.  
The PPI policy was sold to Mrs C by telephone in November 2006 with the first premium 
being paid in December 2006 and the last premium being paid in 2011. So I think its most 
likely the PPI was sold in November 2006.
I can see NRAM has refunded all the PPI premiums that Mrs C paid.When NRAM made its first offer to Mrs C in 2012 it correctly included compensatory interest 
from when each premium was paid up to the date of the offer. 
However when it later agreed to update the offer it firstly didnt include any additional 
compensatory interest, then later only offered further interest from 2017 onwards.
I see that NRAM has now calculated and paid compensatory interest at 8% simple for all the 
time Mrs C was out of pocket.
I note that when NRAM paid the offer to Mrs C in 2020 it deducted tax from the interest. This 
is something NRAM is now obliged to do. In 2012 it could have paid Mrs C the interest 
gross, but Mrs C would still have had to declare it to Her Majestys Revenue Services as the 
interest has always been taxable. Mrs C can contact HMRC to reclaim the tax if she is 
eligible to do so.
So NRAM has now refunded all the PPI premiums together with compensatory interest for all 
the time Mrs C was out of pocket. So I am satisfied the compensation paid for the mis-sale 
of the policy has been calculated correctly and is fair.
Ive next looked at how NRAM dealt with Mrs Cs complaint.
How NRAM handled Mrs Cs complaint
I can see Mrs C complained about the sale of the PPI via the policy insurer in January 2011. 
In March 2012 NRAM wrote to Mrs C upholding her complaint and offering to refund all the 
PPI premiums plus compensatory interest.
Mrs C didnt respond to this offer, most likely as she had moved home and didnt receive it.
In 2017 Mrs C contacted NRAM again about her complaint using a representative. NRAM 
told Mrs Cs representative that the complaint had been dealt with. But Ive seen screenshots 
of NRAMs internal systems which showed clearly that the compensation had never been 
claimed. So it seems the NRAM staff member dealing with Mrs Cs complaint failed to check 
the status of her complaint properly.
This error was compounded when Mrs C asked a second representative to contact NRAM in 
2019. This time NRAM told Mrs Cs representative that the compensation had been paid. 
This despite NRAMs own internal systems showing that it hadnt been paid.
In 2020 NRAM realised the error and agreed to pay the compensation due to Mrs C. But it 
initially refused to update the compensatory interest from 2012, only paying her the original 
amount offered in 2012 , less tax.
Later NRAM offered to pay some of the interest but only for the period after 2017.
Later still NRAM offered to pay the full interest covering the whole time Mrs C had been out 
of pocket.
I also note that in May 2020 NRAM agreed to make an urgent interim payment while the 
complaint was being considered but that it took almost a fortnight for this to be payment to 
be transferred to Mrs C.I dont think NRAM was at fault for the delay in making payment that occurred between 2012 
and 2017. I say this as the offer appears to have been sent to the address Mrs C had 
provided, and Ive not seen any evidence that Mrs C attempted to contact NRAM until 2017.
But I can see NRAM made several errors while dealing with Mrs Cs complaint. NRAM 
shouldnt have told Mrs Cs representative in 2017 that it had dealt with her complaint. And it 
shouldnt have told Mrs Cs second representative in 2019 that she had been paid.
In addition NRAM should be fully aware that it needs to pay compensatory interest for the 
whole time a consumer is out of pocket due to a mis-sold PPI. The delay in agreeing to 
update and pay interest for the whole period between 2012 and 2020 only compounded the 
earlier errors and delayed even further Mrs C receiving her correctly calculated 
compensation.
All this would have caused Mrs C a lot of upset and inconvenience and NRAM needs to pay 
compensation to Mrs C for this. So Ive next thought about what is fair compensation for the 
errors made by NRAM.
Compensation for the trouble and upset experienced by Mrs C  
  
NRAM has already paid Mrs C £400 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced due 
to its errors.
Our adjudicator asked NRAM to pay a further £600 for the upset its errors had caused and 
£300 to compensate Mrs C for the cost of all the telephone calls, postage and time she had 
spent pursuing her complaint.
NRAM has said this is excessive but has offered a further £400 which Mrs C has declined.
Mrs C has told us how she has she experienced financial difficulties over the years since 
NRAM made its first error in not making payment to Mrs C in 2017. Mrs C has told us she 
has suffered health problems which she says were made worse by the stress of chasing 
payment from NRAM and from being wrongly told in 2019 that she had already been paid. In 
addition Mrs Cs Mother sadly passed and she has had to deal with funeral costs and 
arrangements as well as dealing with her Mothers affairs which included outstanding care 
home fees of some £80,000. Mrs C has also told us she had been without a car, meaning 
she has not been able to take up employment, has had to take out other loans and nearly 
lost her possessions when a storage company removed her goods from a storage facility 
due to late payment.
Id like to reassure Mrs C that Ive considered all the evidence she has submitted to this 
service when considering her complaint. And I sympathise with the situation Mrs C has 
found herself in over the last few years. 
If NRAM had made payment in 2017 I think its likely it would have alleviated some of        
Mrs Cs financial hardship. But having considered all the evidence  I dont think I can fairly 
say that if NRAM had made payment in 2017 then Mrs Cs situation would have been 
substantially different. 
For instance, I notice a letter from her doctor from early 2020 states that she had a car 
accident recently and had lost her mother. It states that she had been accepted for two jobs 
but due to the coronavirus restrictions the job offers had been put on hold. And the letter 
states that she couldnt sell her home because the buyer had pulled back on the offer due to 
the coronavirus pandemic. I can appreciate that Mrs C has been under a lot of stress from these events coming one 
after another in such a short period of time. 
But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to find that NRAMs errors led directly 
to these events which in themselves would have caused anyone a good deal of stress. But I 
do find that if NRAM had made payment to Mrs C earlier it would have helped her cope with 
some of the expenses she has to deal with and it would have been one less worry that        
Mrs C had to cope with. Weighing everything up, I think the overall sum of £1,000 (£400 
already paid and £600 suggested by the adjudicator) is fair compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by the multiple errors made by NRAM.
I also see that Mrs C has had to spend some considerable time and effort in putting her 
case, not to mention the cost of postage and telephone calls. And I think £300 is fair 
compensation for this.    
  
Putting things right
My understanding is NRAM has already paid Mrs C a refund of all PPI premiums paid plus 
compensatory interest calculated at 8%. NRAM has also paid Mrs C £400 for the trouble and 
upset its errors caused her to experience.
NRAM should pay Mrs C a further £600 for the trouble and upset she experienced due to 
NRAMs errors.
And NRAM should pay Mrs C a further £300 to compensate her for the time and expense of 
chasing the correct compensation due for the mis-sold PPI. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that NRAM should pay Mrs C a further £600 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its errors, and a further £300 to compensate Mrs C for the time and expense 
those errors caused her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman