DRN-2232531
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has dealt with 
her claim. 
What happened
Mrs P bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV. 
Whilst on holiday, Mrs P had a fall in the hotel lobby and injured her knee. She didnt attend 
hospital or receive medical treatment at the time. But when she returned to the UK, Mrs P 
had surgery, and time off work. And so she submitted a claim to URV for loss of earnings. 
But URV declined the claim as it said Mrs P hadnt had any treatment whilst on holiday and 
so there were no costs for it to cover under the travel insurance policy. 
Mrs P complained and unhappy with URVs response, referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think URV had unfairly declined the 
claim as the policy confirmed emergency medical attention was covered for costs incurred 
during the trip. 
Mrs P disagreed and says she didnt understand why she needed to attend a hospital to be 
able to make a claim. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover if emergency medical attention is required. It covers:
customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency medical 
expenses, necessary travel and accommodation or repatriation costs in the event of 
your illness, injury or death during your trip.
Mrs P didnt receive emergency medical treatment whilst she was on holiday. And the policy 
also excludes loss of earnings. And so Mrs P cannot claim for these things under the terms 
and conditions of the insurance policy. 
Mrs P says she would like compensation and doesnt understand why she isnt covered 
under the policy as a result of not attending a hospital whilst she was abroad. 
If Mrs P wishes to pursue compensation, she may be able to do this through a personal 
injury claim. But she would need to obtain legal advice about this  there is a legal advice 
line outlined in her policy. As loss of earnings is excluded, this isnt something she would be 
able to claim compensation for in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman