DRN-1845132
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about Oodle Financial Services Limited's handling of his car finance
agreement. 
What happened
Mr M obtained a car on a hire purchase agreement with Oodle in June 2019.
The car cost £5,700. Mr M provided a £500 deposit and the remaining £5,200 was covered
by the HP agreement.
Mr M experienced a number of problems with the car. Repairs were attempted, but weren't
successful.
Mr M complained to Oodle. They commissioned an expert inspection. And they accepted 
that the car had existing or developing faults at the time it was sold to Mr M.
Mr M subsequently complained to us. He's not happy with Oodle's offer to take back the car
and cancel the HP agreement. He wants to keep the car but have the finance agreement
cancelled, or he wants Oodle to find him a replacement and pay for road tax, insurance and
other costs for the first year.
Our investigator looked into it and didn't think Oodle had done anything wrong. He thought
their offer to allow Mr M to return the car was fair and reasonable.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with the outcome suggested by our investigator, I decided to issue a 
provisional decision before making my final decision. This allowed both Mr M and Oodle to 
provide further comment or evidence before I make my final decision, which is our service's 
last word on the matter.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I said:
"Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should say it wouldn't be a fair outcome to allow Mr M to keep the car and 
cancel the finance agreement. Put simply, Mr M can't have his cake and eat it. Nor do 
I think Oodle should pay for Mr M's tax and insurance costs associated with another 
car for a year. They're Mr M's responsibility.I'm also very mindful of the fact that when Oodle offered to allow Mr M to reject the 
vehicle, they didn't have a chance to explain in detail to Mr M what that would mean. 
At that point, he decided to bring his complaint to us and he rejected Oodle's offer.
So, it's possible that some of what I'm recommending now may have been in Oodle's 
mind when they made their offer to Mr M. I am upholding the complaint though 
because I think Oodle need to do more in terms of compensating Mr M for his trouble 
and upset.
There's no dispute in this case that the car wasn't in a satisfactory condition when Mr 
M obtained it. And there's no dispute that there's been an unsuccessful attempt at 
repairs by the car dealership.
That being the case, Mr M has a right to return the car with nothing further to pay 
under the credit agreement. I believe Mr M has been using the car - he's had an MOT 
test carried out recently. So I think the payments under the agreement should cease 
from the date the car is returned to Oodle.
I think it's fair Oodle should also collect the car - at no cost to Mr M. He shouldn't be 
inconvenienced any further given that the car isn't of satisfactory quality.
Mr M's deposit on the car was £500. I believe this may have been the agreed value of 
a part-exchange, but that's of no real consequence in terms of the outcome. Oodle will 
now need to ensure that deposit is returned. And given that Mr M has been deprived 
of that money in the meantime, they should add 8% interest (simple) from the date Mr 
M paid the deposit to the date of settlement.
Mr M said the car had a number of faults. He says there was an ingress of water and 
intermittently failing electrics. I'm not sure the independent inspection confirmed every 
fault Mr M reported - unsurprisingly since some of them were intermittent.
But it's very clear that Mr M's use of the car has been impaired during the time he's 
had it. At the very least, it appears there's been a damp smell in the inside of the car 
which will have impacted Mr M's enjoyment the vehicle.
I think Oodle should compensate Mr M for impaired use of the car almost throughout 
the time he's had it. I think £100 would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I am bearing in mind that Mr M hasn't been unable to use the car at all except for the 
brief periods when it was in for repairs or inspection.
I'm also going to ask Oodle to compensate Mr M for the inconvenience he's 
experienced. I know they paid for hire car expenses and taxi fares when the car was 
with the dealer for repairs. But Mr M had to take the car in and out for attempted 
repairs and the inspection. And he had to make alternative arrangements to get to 
work. I think a further £100 would be reasonable.
Mr M has also complained about delays in Oodle's handling of this issue. But I don't 
agree that Oodle have acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Mr M raised the issues with his car with Oodle in mid-November 2019. By late 
December, they'd had the repairs attempted, then commissioned an expert inspection, 
considered the findings and told Mr M they'd allow return of the car. I don't think that's 
an unreasonable timescale all things considered."And on that basis, I said I was minded to ask Oodle to allow Mr M to return the car and 
cancel the finance agreement (from the date the car is returned). I said Oodle should collect 
the car at no cost to Mr M. They should ensure Mr M's £500 deposit is returned - with 8% 
simple interest added from the date of payment to the date it's returned to him. And 
they should pay Mr M £200 in compensation for his impaired use of the car and his
inconvenience.
The responses to my provisional decision
Oodle have told us they agree with the outcome set out in my provisional decision.
Mr M says he agrees with most of it. But he believes the compensation I suggested isn't 
enough to properly reflect the trouble and upset he's experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I've taken into account the responses 
to my provisional decision from Mr M and Oodle.
Having done so, I haven't changed my mind about the outcome. Both Mr M and 
Oodle agreed with most of it. And I still think Mr M regaining his deposit - with interest - and 
£200 in compensation is a fair reflection of his trouble and upset and the inconvenience he's 
experienced. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr M has had use of the car for most of the time in 
question. And when he hasn't, Oodle have paid for hire cars and taxis. So, the level of 
compensation reflects the fact that Mr M hasn't been unable to use the car to get to work, for 
example, he's simply had a less enjoyable experience when driving the car than might have 
been expected. 
Putting things right
I am going to change one aspect of my provisional decision, to reflect the impact of the 
coronavirus and the measures taken to combat it in recent months.
My provisional decision was issued on 2 April 2020 and asked for comments or evidence 
from Oodle and Mr M by 2 May 2020. And it said Mr M's finance agreement should be 
cancelled from the point at which the car was returned to Oodle. This was on the basis that 
Mr M continued to use the car - the evidence for that being that he'd had an MOT carried out 
on the car reasonably recently.
I understand Mr M has now stopped using the car. He's asked us about the cost of storing 
the car until Oodle can pick it up.
In normal circumstances, we'd expect the provisional decision response within at most a 
month. And we'd expect a business to action the outcome as soon as practically possible 
after we issue a final decision.
We've allowed Oodle longer to respond to the provisional decision because of 
the circumstances surrounding the coronavirus and the government lockdown. I also have to 
take into account that, through no fault of their own, Oodle may not be able to collect the car 
from Mr M immediately after I issue this decision.Bearing that in mind, I don't think it would be fair to ask Mr M to continue to pay HP 
payments for a car he's not now using simply because Oodle can't collect the car or because 
of delays in our process caused by the coronavirus's impact on Oodle's capacity to respond 
to our provisional or final decisions.
So, I'm going to change that one aspect of my provisional decision and say the finance 
agreement should be cancelled - and that Mr M should have no more instalments to pay - 
after April 2020's monthly payment. In normal circumstances, we would have 
expected Oodle to have collected the car by early to mid-May.
Mr M should of course be up-to-date in his payments before May. If he isn't, Oodle would be 
entitled to deduct any remaining money owed from the compensation they pay Mr M.
Otherwise, the outcome remains the same as the one set out in my provisional decision and 
is reflected below. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Mr M's complaint should be
upheld and that Oodle Financial Services Limited should:
allow Mr M to return the car and cancel the finance agreement (from April 2020);
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
ensure Mr M's £500 deposit is returned - with 8% simple interest added from the date 
of payment to the date it's returned to him; **
pay Mr M £200 in compensation for his impaired use of the car and 
his inconvenience.
** HM Revenue & Customs may require Oodle to deduct basic rate tax from the simple 
interest. It should give Mr M a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman