DRN-3068983
The complaint
Mr S complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs proposed settlement to his 
Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents
Mr S has provided a detailed submission to support his complaint, including reports from his 
own surveyor  who I refer to below as D
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here.
 
But in summary, Mr S discovered his tenant had been using his property to grow Cannabis. 
Mr S made a claim with AXA around August 2020. 
AXA said it will provide cover for malicious damage. Mr S provided a report from D on the 
damage in the property along with a proposed scope of work. 
AXA didnt agree everything detailed in the scope of work provided by D was malicious. 
Mr S disagrees. He believes all the damage was malicious and his claim should be settled 
as set out by D in their report.  
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. He felt persuaded there 
were some items that were maliciously damaged  or should be considered under accidental 
damage. In other cases he wasnt persuaded the damage was malicious  so didnt agree 
AXA were required to cover it under the claim. 
Our investigator recommended AXA:
Cover the rear external door to the kitchen as malicious damage
Contribute 50% towards the cost of the kitchen
Cover the individual cracked single pane windows as accidental damage
Contribute 50% towards the replacement of internal doors
Cover individual damaged panels in the internal partition as accidental damage
AXA said it already agreed to contribute 50% towards the cost of the kitchen but agreed with 
our investigators recommendations.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator and reiterated the damage in the property was caused 
maliciously by the tenant.
The complaint has passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made several points to support his complaint. I want to assure him Ive considered 
all of them but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Both AXA and Mr S have reports prepared by surveyors
AXA says some of the things included in the scope of work are related to damage 
due to wear and tear/gradual deterioration, tenant neglect and/or a careless 
disregard for property and should be excluded from cover as they do not arise from 
acts intended to cause damage
here is no definition of malicious in the policy, but Ive considered the common 
definition which is intending or intended to do harm when thinking about whether 
everything in Mr Ss scope of work, and the information hes provided to support this, 
meets the definition
I also considered whether any of the items in Mr Ss claim should be considered 
under the Accidental damage section of the policy  which is defined as damage 
caused suddenly as a result of unexpected, unforeseen and non-deliberate force
Having done so, Im persuaded there are some aspects of the claim that meet the 
definition of malicious, but in some other cases Im not persuaded they do
AXA says it has already agreed a 50% contribution towards the damage in the 
kitchen. In the circumstances I think this is fair
Ds report says some of the individual components have been maliciously damaged. I 
can see photos of the kitchen units show some signs of malicious damage where 
doors appear to have been torn from their brackets. Another photo shows damage to 
an oven door
But from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that all items in the kitchen were 
maliciously damaged. For example, the scope of works includes a sink that doesnt 
appear to show signs consistent with malicious damage from available photos. I can 
also see photos of a hob that shows what looks more like signs of a failure to 
maintain and clean it, rather than malicious damage
D has commented the internal doors have been maliciously damaged. I can see 
some of the damage doesnt look consistent with what you would reasonably expect 
to see from every day use of the doors, but I can also see signs such as splitting of 
the wood in photos of the doors - which is generally consistent with wear and tear. So, in this case, I think its reasonable AXA pay 50% towards replacing these doors
D says there are cracked panes to timber windows - and secondary glazing in the 
aluminium windows are missing. D believes the aluminium windows were removed to 
allow sheeting to be fixed for privacy, and the cracked panes were a result of impact 
damage
AXA agree the windows appear to have been taped over with plastic sheeting, but 
said it saw no evidence of damage to the units holding the secondary glazing  so it 
feels the cracked panes and missing glazing are due to tenant neglect
Considering everything available, Im more persuaded by AXA, I cant see damage to 
the units in question and Im not persuaded there would be intent to damage the 
panes
D said there were signs of wear and tear to the bathroom. But they also said other 
damage, such as scratches to bath enamel and chips to wash basins, demonstrated 
impact damage  so believed it to be malicious damage. D also said other damage in 
the bathrooms included broken floor tiles, holes in the wall tiles and broken bath 
panels 
But scratches to bath enamel and chips to wash basins are equally something that 
can happen gradually over time. And D hasnt said how this is likely to have 
happened maliciously. So Im not persuaded the damage has occurred maliciously
Reports from both D and AXA are in agreement the damage to the external Kitchen 
door was consistent with external force by the police. The damage was intended, so I 
think its reasonable AXA meet this cost
Ive not seen enough to persuade me the damage reported to the boiler or heating 
system was a result of a malicious act. 
The front panel to the boiler is missing and Mr S and his surveyor have also 
mentioned there are leaks to the radiators and pipework they believe could be 
attributed to the boiler. But D commented the boiler was isolated, so they were 
unable to test if the heating or hot water was operational and Ive not seen any 
information that persuades me the boiler has been maliciously damaged
Ive not seen anything that persuades me the glazing to the internal partition has 
been maliciously damaged in connection with the installation of the cannabis farm. 
However, the considering the definition of accidental damage being sudden and 
unforeseen, it would be reasonable for AXA to consider this aspect under accidental 
damage subject to the remaining terms of the policy
D reported the garage door was damaged, the hinges were bent and didnt sit flush 
with the frame. I can see this is also evident from the video Mr S has provided. 
D says the damage was caused by the tenants to prevent it being opened but AXA 
doesnt agree it was maliciously damaged. Ive not seen anything that persuades me 
the door was maliciously damaged, there is nothing to support how the door was damaged  and hinges can bend in time and doors lose alignment. So I dont think 
AXA have acted unreasonably here
AXA have said lead flashings were not maliciously damage. Considering 
photographs of the flashing, it does appear it has come away from the tiles over time 
 and Ive not seen anything that persuades me this has been done maliciously. 
D has said a low level brick wall to the front drive appears to be impact damaged  
but again I have seen no information that supports this and from the photos Ive seen 
of the wall, it appears the mortar has worn, so Im more persuaded by what AXA 
have said, that this is wear and tear
Im not persuaded the overgrowth to front and rear gardens is a result of malicious 
damage. This is something that is a standard part of maintaining a property  and D 
has also commented this is routine maintenance work. So I dont think AXA is 
required to take any further action here
So in summary, I believe there are some aspects of the claim where I do think AXA 
need to do more. But overall while D has provided their opinion on whether the 
damage is malicious, Ive not seen enough information to persuade me all items are 
maliciously damaged  or how that occurred
I understand the condition of Mr Ss property and discovering the cannabis farm, will 
have been upsetting for him. And its clear from looking at the photos of the condition 
of the property, the tenants had very little regard for it
But the policy isnt designed to provide a full renovation of the property or to cover 
every single eventuality. And as Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that all of the 
damage discovered was a result of malicious damage. The aspects where I do 
believe AXA are required to take action are set out below
  
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct AXA to:
Include the rear external door to the Kitchen as malicious damage
Consider the individual, single paned windows that are cracked as accidental 
damage subject to the remaining terms of the policy
Pay a contribution of 50% towards the replacement of internal doors
Consider damaged panels in the internal partition as accidental damage subject to 
the remaining terms of the policy
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to do as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman