DRN-2630578
The complaint
Mr R has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) wont meet the costs of damage to a car he hired in Europe 
when he sought assistance under the Continental Breakdown section of his car insurance 
policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr R was travelling in Europe when unfortunately his car broke down and so 
he sought assistance from NFU. 
NFUs agent M arranged for a hire car for Mr R and arranged for Mr Rs car to be 
repatriated back to the UK as it couldnt be immediately repaired in Europe. 
Unfortunately about an hour after collecting the hire car, Mr R was involved in a collision with 
another car. He dropped the car at the nearest car hire office to arrange a replacement. The 
car hire company A said it wouldnt provide a replacement car until Mr R paid a damage 
fee.
Mr R contacted M and as the matter couldnt be resolved, he and his wife stayed in a hotel 
overnight. 
The following day M arranged for Mr R to be taken to a different car hire company B and Mr 
R collected a second car to continue with his trip. 
Mr R didnt buy collision damage waiver (CDW) when he collected the first hire car. He 
bought CDW when he collected the second hire car. Mr R said as NFUs agent arranged the 
first car hire  and due to the policy wording  he thought it included CDW.
When Mr R returned home, he found A had taken the damage fee from his credit card. 
Mr R complained to NFU. He felt it should reimburse him for the amount A had deducted as 
it had arranged the hire car. 
NFU didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said there is insurance included in the costs of the 
hire car and it was Mr Rs decision whether or not to pay for CDW. 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator thought NFU had acted reasonably. So she didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree. He says NFU led him to believe as it arranged the hire car it was 
responsible for appropriate insurance. 
So as Mr R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Continental Breakdown section of Mr Rs policy it says NFU will pay for:
an equivalent hire vehicle so that the DRIVER, passengers and family pet can 
continue on the planned journey or return home, if it has proved impossible to repair 
the CAR by the planned time and date of departure (provided the DRIVER has 
already asked US for assistance at the time of the incident). The maximum WE will 
pay is £500 per TRIP.
It says that conditions applying to this cover include that NFUs agent will be solely 
responsible for the arrangement of all benefits under these covers. And it is this wording 
that Mr R understood to mean that CDW would be one of the benefits referred to, as it 
wasnt made clear that CDW wasnt included as a benefit. 
As NFU explained, there was insurance in place for the hire car, but damage waiver is an 
additional optional benefit. Nowhere in Mr Rs policy does it say that NFU will meet the costs 
of additional optional insurance. The policy says that NFU will pay for a hire car. The 
arrangement of the benefit of car hire is carried out by its agent. The role of the agent is to 
act on NFUs behalf in arranging car hire while abroad. 
I understand that Mr R says when he arrived to collect the first hire car, he assumed CDW 
was included and had been arranged by NFUs agent. He says his experience with the 
second car hire company was different as they better explained the options. So they chose 
CDW due to their experience of hiring the first car. And Mr R says in the past theyve bought 
CDW when hiring a car abroad. But I think it was reasonable for the consumer to accept, 
reject or negotiate any additional optional insurance with the agent at the point when the 
replacement car policy was taken out. And I think NFUs policy wording was clear.
I understand Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think NFU is 
responsible for providing CDW cover for the hire car Mr R was charged a damage fee for. 
And I dont think the policy suggested it would. And so this means Im not upholding his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman