DRN-3699754
The complaint
Miss H complains about Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2s (Telefonica) decision to 
lend her.
What happened
Miss H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Telefonica in January 2021 to 
purchase a tablet. The tablet cost £908 and Miss H made a £20 upfront payment. Under the 
agreement, Miss H was required to make 48 monthly payments of £18.50. The agreement 
didnt have any interest applied to it.
In September, October and November 2021, Miss H didnt make any payments towards her 
account. She contacted Telefonica in November 2021 and explained she hadnt made her 
payments because she was working reduced hours and her partner had lost their job.     
Miss H brought the account back up to date in December 2021 but made no further 
payments towards this agreement. She contacted Telefonica in February 2022 and said she 
would contact it when she was able to afford the repayments towards under the agreement. 
But as Telefonica didnt hear from Miss H following this, it passed the account to a third party 
debt collection agency  who Ill refer to as D  in March 2022.
Miss H complained to Telefonica. She said it didnt carry out checks to ensure she could 
afford to pay for the tablet and that she had taken sick leave from her employer and so had a 
reduced income. She said she couldnt afford to pay back what she owed.
Telefonica issued its response to Miss Hs complaint and said it had carried out full checks 
before lending to Miss H. It also said Miss H had signed and agreed to its terms and 
conditions and if she hadnt agreed to these, it wouldnt have lent to her. It didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Unhappy with this, Miss H referred her complaint to this service. She said Telefonica had 
lent to her, despite her not keeping up with payments under an existing agreement she had. 
To put things right, she said she wanted Telefonica to wipe the debt it had passed on to D. 
Miss H also confirmed she had sold the tablet to a third party.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he thought Telefonica had made a fair lending 
decision when lending to Miss H. He said he didnt think Telefonicas checks were 
proportionate or reasonable at the time it made its lending decision. But he said even if 
Telefonica had carried out further checks, it would have still lent to Miss H, as further checks 
would have showed the agreement was affordable for Miss H.
Miss H disagreed. She said if Telefonica had carried out further checks, it would have found 
she wasnt able to pay the amount owed under the agreement. 
As Miss H remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint. 
Telefonica needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that Telefonica needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was affordable for Miss H before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Miss Hs complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did Telefonica complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Miss H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Telefonica act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Telefonica complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss H 
would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Miss Hs case.
Telefonica has said before making its lending decision, Miss H would have completed some 
affordability questions and confirmed she could make the payments owed under the 
agreement. The affordability questions it says were asked at the time were to confirm      
Miss Hs employment status and her annual income band. It also said it carried out a credit 
check. Telefonica hasnt provided us with any supporting information to demonstrate the 
checks it carried out. 
In the absence of this information, we asked Miss H to provide us with information about her 
financial circumstances to help us understand what Telefonica would more likely than not 
have discovered when deciding to lend to Miss H. I accept different checks might show 
different things. And just because something shows up in the information Miss H has 
provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks Telefonica mightve carried 
out. 
The credit file Miss H has provided us shows some adverse information. It showed she had 
defaulted on one account in late December 2020. Its unclear however whether this 
information would have been reported in the credit check obtained by Telefonica at the time, 
as it was applied shortly before Miss H took out the lending with Telefonica. It also showed 
two defaults from around 12 months before this lending was approved, another default 
shortly before this lending was approved and one missed payment from another Telefonica 
account around six months before the lending was taken out. All her other agreements were 
up to date and the missed payment under the Telefonica account was repaid the following 
month and so was also up to date. Miss Hs bank statements show she was receiving income each month. Part of this income was from an employer, so she was employed at the 
time the lending was provided to her.
Having carefully considered this, the information from Miss Hs credit file, that I think 
Telefonica would have likely seen, could suggest that Miss H was having difficulty in meeting 
her contractual obligations shortly before she took out this loan agreement. So Im not 
satisfied that the checks Telefonica carried out were proportionate and I think it should have 
carried out further checks to satisfy itself that Miss H would be able to repay her loan, 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Ive thought about what a proportionate check could look like considering the terms of the 
agreement. In this case, the repayments were due to last over four years, the purpose of the 
lending was for an asset and the repayments were £18.50. Given the amount of the monthly 
payments and that the payments were due to last for four years, I think Telefonica should 
have asked for information about Miss Hs expenditure, especially given that it may have 
been aware that Miss Hs credit file showed some recent adverse information.
Weve obtained bank statements which demonstrate Miss Hs circumstances at the time she 
applied for the lending. To be clear, Im not saying that Telefonica was required to obtain 
these before lending to Miss H. Instead, Ive reviewed the bank statements because I think 
the information they contain is what is needed to reconstruct what a proportionate check 
may have looked like. I also accept that if Telefonica had obtained information from Miss H 
about her expenditure at the time the agreements were taken out, this may have shown 
something different. However, in the absence of anything else from Telefonica to 
demonstrate what any other checks would have shown, I think its reasonable to place 
considerable weight on the bank statements as an indication as to what Miss Hs 
circumstances likely were at the time.
Having reviewed the bank statements, they show that Miss H was receiving consistent 
payments into her account each month. These included payments from an employer, tax 
credits, benefits and income from a third party which Miss H has confirmed was her partner. 
Miss H says the payments from her partner were for a specific event during the year. But the 
payments were made to Miss H each month and so Im not persuaded that the payments 
were for a certain event, given payments were also received in the months after the event. 
Miss Hs bank statements show very little regular monthly contractual payments. The 
contractual payments she does have showing on her bank statement include payments for 
subscriptions, payments to an insurer and a payment for two credit accounts. Miss H has 
said she paid for her utilities in cash and that she had a particularly high food spend. 
However, having reviewed Miss Hs bank statements, I can see that her income once offset 
against her contractual monthly outgoings, left her with enough disposable income to be able 
to make the repayments owed under this agreement, even after taking into account a 
reasonable amount for the other outgoings Miss H has mentioned. 
So Im satisfied that even if Telefonica had carried out proportionate checks, it would have 
still been fair and reasonable for it to lend to Miss H. And I think the checks would have 
shown she was able to make the repayments owed under the agreement without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. 
Did Telefonica act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Telefonica passed the account to D when Miss H failed to make repayments to it. However, 
this is a commercial decision and something it chose to do, given Miss H didnt keep up with 
her payments. I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it passed the account to D. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman