DRN-1696220
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), trading as More Th>n, 
gave her inaccurate information about her pet insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions set out by the investigator for these reasons:
RSA concede that they gave incorrect information to Mrs F during the phone call, as 
they should not have told her that the £8,000 policy limit per medical condition 
reinstates each year upon the policy being renewed, as the policy does not offer this 
level of cover and only should only provide a maximum of £8,000 per diagnosed 
condition.
 
However, despite the policy not offering such a benefit, RSA nonetheless agreed to 
reinstate the £8,000 limit when the policy renewed on 12 December 2019 in 
recognition of their error  thereby doubling the reserves that would otherwise be 
available for Mrs F to use to treat her dogs condition. Given that Mrs F relied on the 
incorrect information given by RSA when choosing to proceed with treatment, I 
consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer in these circumstances  particularly 
as she has not yet even exhausted the original £8,000 indemnity limit. But I do not 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to ask RSA to reinstate this limit each year 
indefinitely, as the policy does not provide this level of cover, and I do not think the 
administrative error they have made would warrant such redress in order to put 
things right. 
 
I appreciate that Mrs F may not have proceeded with treatment in the first place if she 
had known the policy was limited to £8,000 per condition, as she says she may have 
taken the decision to put the dog to sleep. But ultimately, RSA have now doubled the 
reserves available for Mrs F to continue treatment. And should this amount eventually 
become depleted, she will then be in the position again to decide whether to put the 
dog to sleep or to carry on with treatment at her own cost. 
 
RSA have also paid £200 compensation in recognition of their poor handling of the 
matter, which Im satisfied is a fair and proportionate reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused in these circumstances.
 
I understand Mrs F has since raised a further complaint about her premiums 
increasing. But this has been dealt with by RSA in a separate final response and did 
not form part of her initial complaint about the incorrect information she had been 
given, so this will need to be considered as a separate complaint. As such, I will not 
be commenting on the premium increase within this decision. In summary, although I appreciate RSA have made an error here, Im satisfied that the way 
they have offered to put things right is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman