DRN-2720471
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC breached his data security by sending letters to an 
incorrect address. Further that it failed to action his multiple GDPR requests and failed to deal 
adequately with his complaint.
What happened
In 2019 Mr W raised a complaint with Barclays that hed had no response to the GDPR requests hed 
made some months before. While Barclays was looking into this it found that it was holding an old 
address for Mr W on its systems.
Mr W said hed told Barclaycard about his change pf address in April 2018 and he was surprised to 
find that his details hadnt also been updated at Barclays. He was concerned that Barclays might have 
written to him at this old address and disclosed personal information. Mr W felt that by failing to 
update his address, Barclays had breached his account security and exposed him to the risk of fraud. 
Mr B also said that hed asked for his account at Barclays to be closed some years before but this 
hadnt happened. 
Mr W complains that Barclays refused to deal with his complaint about the incorrect address as a 
separate complaint and that it refused to allow him to speak to a manager about the way his 
complaint was being handled, which he considers was unreasonable and poor customer service.
Mr W says Barclays has offered him £200 for the time it took to deal with his complaint and another 
£200 for the other issues. But he doesnt feel this is enough to cover the inconvenience and distress 
hes had or for the potential risk to his account because of Barclayss incorrect records He feel £500 
would be more appropriate.
Barclays said its systems were separate to Barclaycard so although when Mr W updated his address 
with Barclaycard, this wouldnt automatically migrate across to Barclays. It was usual for customers to 
be told about this although it couldnt say at this point whether this had happened in Mr Ws case. 
Having checked its systems, however, it couldnt find any record of Mr W asking for his account to be 
closed. It noted that the account had been inactive since December 2014 when the balance was 
reduced to nil. 
With regard to the potential breach of security, Barclays noted that three letters had been sent out in 
2017 and 2018 but this was before Mr W had updated his address with Barclaycard so it didnt agree 
it had breached Mr Ws data. And although it subsequently found that another letter had been sent out 
in January 2020, it said this contained limited information about a dormant account so it didnt agree it 
needed to be referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). It said there was nothing to 
show thered been any unauthorised activity on this account.
In relation to the GDPR requests, Barclays said its records showed that thered been two requests, on 
26 June and 5 July 2019, but theyd been declined because the address on the requests didnt match 
the address on its systems. These checks were an essential part of its security measures, not a 
mistake, but it agreed it should have written to Mr W at the time to explain this. It had offered Mr W 
£200 for this and for the other issues hed raised and a further £200 for the delay in dealing with his 
complaint and felt this was reasonable.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this office. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but felt Barclays had dealt with it fairly.  While shed seen that a letter had been sent to Mr 
Ws old address in January 2020, there was nothing to show thered been any unauthorised activity 
and because of this, we couldnt ask Barclays to compensate Mr W for a loss that hadnt happened.
Shed also asked Barclays to make further checks to see if there was any record of other GDPR 
requests but these checks had only revealed the two already disclosed. For that reason, she could 
only look at these two.These had been declined but while that was understandable because of the 
mismatch between Mr Ws current address and the one on Barclays system, she felt Barclays should 
have contacted Mr W at the time to explain why this had happened. It hadnt done so and this was 
poor service.
Shed taken into account Mr Ws concerns about the way Barclays had dealt with his complaint but it 
was to a large degree for Barclays to decide how best to manage its complaints, provided it did so 
fairly. In this case she was satisfied it had taken all of the issues into account and felt that the overall 
compensation paid was reasonable. For that reason, she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr W disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said in summary:
The complaint about his address should have been dealt with separately.
He feels Barclays would have continued to write to him at the wrong address if he hadnt 
pursued his GDPR requests. He didnt consider it had shown sufficient due diligence about 
this.
That he had made a number of requests and not just the two reported by Barclays. 
He felt the compensation was inadequate for the upset and inconvenience that hed had and 
for the time it had lasted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I consider Barclays has dealt with the complaint fairly as Ill now explain. There are a 
number of issues that Ill deal with in turn.
Change of address and breach of Mr Ws account information
Mr W updated his address with Barclaycard in April 2018 and I can understand why he thought this 
would update all his accounts, both banking and credit. But as Barclays has explained, its system is 
separate to Barclaycards so that updating one doesnt automatically update the other. And while it 
says customers should be warned about this, its acknowledged this may not happen in every case. 
For that reason, its possible that Mr W wasnt told about this when he updated his address with 
Barclaycard in 2018 and, if so, then Id agree thats a mistake by Barclaycard. Having said that, I 
havent seen anything to show Barclays was aware of Mr Ws new address until he raised his 
complaint about its failure to action his GDPR request at the end of 2019. And once it was aware, I 
can see it took steps to update Mr Ws address as soon as possible. I think that was reasonable and 
that there wasnt much more it could have done in the circumstances.
Nevertheless, its clear that there was a significant time during which Barclays had an incorrect 
address for Mr W. While its not clear that Barclays was aware of this or that it had been informed of 
the change of address by Mr W, Ive gone on to consider what the impact of this was on Mr W. Mr W still had a current account although the balance on this had been reduced to nil in December 
2014 and it had effectively been dormant since then. I should add that I havent seen anything, such 
as a switch request from another bank, to show that Mr W had specifically asked for this to be closed 
as part of an account switch process so I dont consider Barclays was responsible for it not being 
closed sooner. Barclays sent three letters on this account to Mr W in March 2017 and January 2018,  
but this was before Mr W had updated his address with Barclaycard so Im satisfied they were 
correctly addressed at the time. However, in January 2020, it sent another letter on this account and 
this was addressed to Mr Ws old address. 
Mr Ws explained very clearly the impact of this. He says he was worried this may have exposed his 
account to fraud and I can understand his concerns. But in making an award, I have to look at what 
has actually happened rather than what might happen and, in this case, theres no information to 
suggest theres been any unauthorised activity on Mr Ws account. And as the account was closed in 
2020, Im satisfied theres no further risk going forward. For that reason, although I understand Mr Ws 
concerns, and Im not seeking to minimise them, I cant reasonably ask Barclays to compensate Mr W 
for something that hasnt happened. I have however taken the emotional impact into account when 
considering the amount of the award.
Ive also considered whether Barclays needs to report this letter as a data breach to the ICO. Not 
every breach needs to be reported and the question of whether it should depends on the nature and 
severity of the breach and the risk or potential risk arising as a result of the breach. In this case the 
letter contained limited information about a dormant account which had been then been closed very 
soon after the letter was sent. In the circumstances, I wont be asking Barclays to make a report but if 
Mr W disagrees, then it is open to him to make his own referral to the ICO and ask for further 
investigation.
GDPR requests
Ive seen Mr W says he made a number of GDPR requests and not just the two in June and July 2019 
and that hes very clear about this. This office has made further enquiries and Barclays has carried 
out further searches of its records to see if it can locate any other calls that might shed some light on 
this. But although its been able to locate a number of other calls from Mr W, it hasnt been able to find 
details of any other GDPR requests across any of its platforms. 
I should explain that where theres no clear information on any particular point or the information 
available is unclear or disputed then I have to look at whats more likely than not to have happened 
and make my decision on the balance of probabilities.  In this case. Im satisfied Barclays has taken 
reasonable steps to try and find any other requests but it hasnt been able to do so and for that 
reason, I cant be satisfied even on balance that there were any other requests other than the two 
identified.
Barclays like all banks is required to have effective security measures in place to avoid its customers 
information being wrongly disclosed. As Mr Ws address on its system didnt match with the address 
on the GDPR requests I dont think it was unreasonable for it to decline the requests. However, as 
Barclays has acknowledged, it should have written to Mr W at this point to explain why this had 
happened and its failure to do so was therefore a mistake. As Barclays has now updated Mr Ws 
address, this shouldnt now cause any problems with any further requests.
Complaint handling
Ive seen Mr W feels the change of address should have been dealt with separately to his complaint 
about its failure to action his GDPR requests. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt able to discuss his 
complaint with a manager. But the way that Barclays manages its complaints process is a commercial 
decision that I cant interfere with, provided it does so fairly. I have however looked at how it handled 
Mr Ws specific concerns and Im satisfied it has dealt with all the issues and that it has taken them all 
into account in its assessment of the award. Its also acknowledged that it took longer than it should 
have done to respond to Mr W and has taken that into account in its offer of compensation. I think 
thats reasonable and what Id expect it to have done in the circumstances.I realise Mr W doesnt feel £400 is enough to compensate him for the upset and inconvenience hes 
had and in particular his worries about that some unauthorised activity could have taken place on his 
account. I can see these were very real concerns and how strongly Mr W feels about this. 
Theres no precise way of calculating such awards but Ive taken into account the impact of what 
happened and the time that it lasted. Ive seen that there was no actual fraud or loss and that the 
matter was put right promptly when the account was closed and Mr Ws address updated. In the 
circumstances I consider that the £400 already paid is appropriate for what happened and, for that 
reason, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
I realise Mr W will be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons set out above, I consider 
Barclays has dealt with this matter fairly and the compensation paid is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman