DRN-3330329
The complaint
Mr B complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided loans to Mr B as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repaymentDate repaid
1 April 2016 £1,300 24 
months£71.41 £1,713.87 23 September 2016
2 October 2016 £2,000 36 
months£88.71 £3,193.66 Outstanding 
When Mr B complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating 
what AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed. It mainly said that using the loans for debt consolidation  in other 
words, to repay other debt  couldve benefitted Mr B and improved his financial situation 
and he repaid loan 1 within 6 months, showing no signs of affordability issues. AvantCredit 
said Mr B had enough disposable income to be able to afford the loan repayments for both 
loans. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Bs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide the loans. 
AvantCredit relied on information available from credit reference agencies to verify Mr Bs 
declared income and recorded that his pay was around £2,300 per month. Alongside 
asking Mr B about his monthly expenses, AvantCredit also carried out its own credit 
checks to understand his credit history and current credit commitments. 
Like our adjudicator, I think the checks AvantCredit did were broadly proportionate. But 
I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mr B applied for loan 1,the 
credit report it obtained for him showed that he had opened 3 new credit accounts within the 
previous 3 months, including a short-term loan, making this his sixth short-term loan in the 
last 6 months. The total value of his payments on short-term loans alone in the last month 
was £862. He had also increased the balances on 4 of his accounts during this time. The 
credit report showed that hed had some payment problems, including 2 active defaults, and 
Mr Bs total credit balance outstanding was £10,671.  
AvantCredits checks showed that Mr B was paying £640 in total each month on his active 
credit accounts (not including any mortgage) so it was evident that his debt repayments cost 
Mr B more than a quarter of his declared income. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Bs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for AvantCredit to make a fair decision to 
lend.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that the indications were that Mr B wasnt managing 
his money well and he was already struggling financially. All the signs were that his finances 
were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt had become unmanageable. I dont 
think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Mr B 
would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Mr B 
was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr B needed to pay a 
significant portion of his income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, 
AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mr B would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 24 month loan term.
I've taken into account that AvantCredit understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But AvantCredit didnt have control over how Mr B used the loan as it paid the loan balance to him. Having seen the extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive 
credit, I think it was apparent that there was a real risk Mr B would use the loan to meet his 
immediate financial demands. So, all the indications were that he would most likely remain in 
serious financial trouble regardless. And, as mentioned above, it was in any event unrealistic 
to expect him to be able to commit to paying such a significant level of income towards debt 
repayments over the loan term. 
The fact that Mr B repaid the loan early doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a way that 
was sustainably affordable for him  borne out by the fact that he applied for loan 2 very 
soon after. 
So thinking about all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I cant reasonably say that 
it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it when it provided 
loan 1. I dont think AvantCredit was able to safely conclude that its loan would be 
sustainably affordable for Mr B so this is why Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 1. 
By the time he took out loan 2, Mr Bs circumstances were more or less unchanged, but he 
had continued to take out new borrowing and his credit commitments were now costing him 
£1,403 per month  around 61% of his take home pay. I think that the evident extent of 
Mr Bs reliance on expensive credit was a clear sign that he was in serious financial difficulty 
 despite the previous loan having been intended to consolidate debt and help Mr B improve 
his financial situation.
Even if some of the cost of this credit was included already in the monthly expenditure 
figures AvantCredit had recorded, this still meant that Mr B had a shortfall each month  his 
spending needs exceeded the amount of money AvantCredit worked out he wouldve had. 
To my mind, AvantCredit should have recognised that Mr B would need to spend such a 
significant proportion of his monthly income just repaying his credit commitments that it 
couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that he would be able to repay loan 2 sustainably 
over the next 36 months. 
I've taken carefully into account everything AvantCredit said in response to our adjudicators 
view, but this makes no overall difference to the outcome. AvantCredit wasnt in control of 
how Mr B spent the loan. And even if Mr B had used it to repay other debt, I dont think 
AvantCredit had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation 
given the value of the loan compared to his outstanding indebtedness overall. 
So for these reasons, Im upholding the complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given 
the loans. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr B 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr B sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay
    whilst its fair that Mr Bs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file regarding the loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman