DRN-1291241
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2006. Mrs M says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think M&S made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. The PPI 
appears to have been sold on the phone. M&S no longer have a copy of the call 
recording  this is understandable given how long ago the sale took place. But it has 
provided us with call scripts from around the time of the sale which show that the 
policy would have been presented as optional and that the representative would have 
been required to get Mrs Ms consent before PPI could be applied to the account. 
 
M&S recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
 
Its possible the information M&S gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
 
But M&S has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
 When the policy was sold, M&S got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. 
Because M&S didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, M&S has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she has said about being self-
employed as well as her existing repayment provisions. But these points dont change my 
decision. 
Mrs M has told us she was self-employed at the time of the sale and that this wouldve 
meant that it would have been difficult for her to make a claim under the policy. Its right that 
some PPI policies did make it difficult for self-employed people to make a claim under the 
policy but this wasnt one of those policies. I cant see that she would have had to meet 
unreasonable requirements in order that she could make a claim under the policy.
Mrs M has told us that she would have been entitled to statutory sick pay for 28 weeks and 
that she had an existing policy which would have covered her income for six months. She 
also told us she had savings. However, as a self-employed person, Mrs M wouldnt have 
been entitled to statutory sick pay. In any event, statutory sick pay would not have been 
sufficient to cover all the income Mrs M would have lost out on if she was unable to work. 
The PPI policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms other means and for a longer 
period of time. It would have paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance for up to 10 
months and it would have paid the remaining outstanding balance (original) if Mrs Ms was 
still unable to work in the 12th month.  
So I think the policy was still suitable for Mrs M despite her existing means and self-
employed status.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman