DRN-1983309
The complaint
Mr D was unhappy he had not received a share certificate or had his money returned by 
Equiniti Financial Services Limited after he placed a trade to buy shares in Thomas Cook on 
16 September 2019.
What happened
Mr D placed a deal to buy Thomas Cook shares on 16 September 2019. Thomas Cook 
ceased trading on 23 September 2019. Mr D said Equiniti had not sent him a share 
certificate or a refund of his money, as they were waiting for a response from the 
administrator. 
Equiniti wrote to Mr D on 24 September 2019, the day after Thomas Cook went into 
administration. They told him as a result of Thomas Cook going into administration, it had 
prevented the settlement of trades. They confirmed they were waiting for further clarification 
and that his funds were held in their client account. They told him they could not return his 
funds to him, as they could be required to settle the trade. 
Thomas Cook have now been wound up and any outstanding trades have been settled with 
the market. The money Mr D paid to buy the shares has been paid to the broker. This cannot 
be refunded to Mr D.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He said he could not hold Equiniti 
responsible for Mr Ds trading decisions, as they just hold shares as a registrar and execute 
instructions for the buying and selling of shares. The trade in question was carried out by 
Equiniti on an execution only basis. 
Mr D decided to buy Thomas Cook shares on 16 September 2019, the funds he paid were 
owed to the broker and their client, who sold them. At this point, the money Mr D paid was 
no longer his. 
Equiniti held the money paid in their client account for a while, as they were awaiting advice 
from the administrator. But these funds were no longer Mr Ds as of 16 September 2019. 
Even though Equiniti had not passed on the funds Mr D had no entitlement to them. 
Our investigator thought Equiniti made Mr D aware of the situation and provided him with all 
the information they had, in a timely manner and without any undue delay.
Mr D did not agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision. He said he had not been told that any proceeds would be sent to him if there were 
any left after the liquidation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr D has not raised any new points. I understand Mr D must be upset because Thomas 
Cook went into administration a few days after he placed his deal to buy the shares. 
However, I agree with our investigator that once Mr D had placed the deal, he was not 
entitled to a refund of the money he paid for the shares. Although the money was held in a 
suspense account, Mr D had agreed to buy the shares for the price agreed. The money was 
therefore due to the seller.
It is unfortunate that Thomas Cook went into administration a few days after Mr D bought the 
shares, but that does not affect the deal Mr D made to buy the shares at the agreed price. If 
there is any money to be returned to shareholders, this will take place after the liquidation 
has been completed.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman