DRN-3058577
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A (the complainants) say Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for their 
unsuitable investment, in 2015, in loan notes issued by Rhombus Commercial Brokerage 
(the Rhombus fund). 
They say the Rhombus fund was too risky for them (being in their 70s and being risk averse 
at the time), that it was recommended to replace investments they were happy with but were 
convinced to review/replace by CMs principal when he made an unsolicited contact with 
them over 10 years after they last engaged with him.
What happened
CM provided the complainants with a response in 2020, which included the following  
During our initial meeting on the 4th of August 2015, we reviewed your existing Lump Sum 
investments with AEGON, Skandia, Standard Life and two Personal Equity Plans with 
Invesco Perpetual. You told me that you were open to the idea of an alternative provider or 
providers for your investments as you thought that they had not performed as well as they 
could have done. Your initial reason for investing your money was for growth. I suggested to 
you that you may be better off with an Investment vehicle that provided you with both growth 
and income. You told me that this idea appealed to you both.
We discussed various forms of investment vehicles that provided both growth, growth and 
income and one investment in particular which returned a percentage of your investment 
annually to you and returned your original investment to you after a term of 3 years, which 
was the investment vehicle you both preferred.
This investment was offered by a company called Rhombus Commercial Brokerage. It 
offered a 20% income every year in arrears, £6000=00, for three years and at the end of the 
third year, your initial investment would be returned to you. I did inform you that this 
investment was by a company which was Unauthorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. I 
explained to you the difference between Authorised and Unauthorised companies offering 
investment products, however you wished to proceed with this investment.
You invested a sum of £30000=00, on a Joint Life basis with Rhombus Commercial 
Investment on the 28th of August 2015. The funds for this investment were raised from the 
surrender of Lump Sum investment Plans with AEGON and Skandia and your application 
form was processed by a company called O&T Solutions. 
The first I was aware that you had not received your first annual income payment from 
Rhombus Commercial Brokerage was in the late autumn of 2016 when you contacted me 
informing me that no payment had been made into your bank account. I contacted O&T 
Solutions and asked them for contact email they could give me for Rhombus Commercial 
Brokerage in order for me to email them and ask they why your first annual payment was 
late and when it would be forwarded to you. I never received a reply to my original email and 
I had to send numerous emails to them before I received a reply when I was told that a 
payment had been made to you. I contacted you to inform you that the email stated that the 
first payment had been made to you.
I know that you did check your  account numerous times expecting the first payment of 
£6000=00 to be paid in, which it had not, despite me being told on numerous occasions by 
Rhombus Commercial Brokerage that this first payment had been paid to you, and despite 
being told by O&T Solutions that Rhombus Commercial Brokerage had paid money out to 
some of their clients and other individuals also.
Since the autumn of 2016 I have been constantly chasing Rhombus Commercial Brokerage 
as well as the company they use as Auditors asking them when you are likely to expect the 
return of you [sic] investment as well as the three annual payments which are now well 
overdue.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and was concerned about the ambiguity 
over CMs position on whether (or not) it advised the complainants. She followed this up with 
an enquiry to CM, but it did not reply to her.
The case was referred to me. I took a preliminary view on the complaint and the investigator 
shared it with CM. I referred to CMs response to the complainants as said as follows  
I have considered Mr and Mrs As complaint. I have noted the conclusion drawn by the 
investigator in her view dated 7 January 2021, in which she was not persuaded that advice 
had been evidenced, so she did not consider the complaint could be upheld. I have also 
noted that she kept the matter under review and wrote to Craig Mitchell (CM) on 17 
February 2021 to query further into evidence on the matter of advice and, in particular, about 
ambiguities in this respect within CMs letter to the complainants of 14 February 2020.
Having considered available evidence in the complaint, it is my preliminary view that CMs 
letter of 14 February 2020 confirms and concedes enough activities on its part to establish 
that it advised the complainants and that the complainants were its customers. CMs letter 
refers to its principal reviewing the complainants existing investments; to him discussing 
alternatives with the complainants; and to him explaining the nature of the Rhombus bond 
that he says they selected. I consider that these activities amount to advisory conduct (with 
regards to the Rhombus bond investment) and that they illustrate CMs provision of an 
advisory service to its customers, the complainants. I note that there is evidence of a 
longstanding adviser-customer relationship between the parties and the events related to the 
Rhombus bond investment appear to have been a continuation of that relationship. In terms 
of this services jurisdiction, my preliminary view is that CM conducted a regulated activity in 
advising the complainants and that they were its customers, so this service has jurisdiction 
to address their complaint.
In terms of the merits of the complaint, I am minded to uphold it. The Rhombus bond 
appears to have been recommended to them by CM and it mismatched their appetite for risk 
and their desire to safeguard their capital. I am persuaded by evidence in both of these 
respects and I consider that they should not have been led into the investment. 
I am aware that the investigator has been pursuing a response, and engagement, from CM 
since her email of 17 February 2021. To date, no such response/engagement appears to 
have been forthcoming. It is important for CM to note that the above preliminary views on our 
jurisdiction and on the merits of the complaint will be retained in a final decision, in the 
absence of comments and/or evidence from CM that persuades me to consider otherwise. 
CM has seven ordinary days, from the communication of this preliminary view, to provide 
such comments and/or evidence. Thereafter, I will proceed to draft a final decision for the complaint. To ensure transparency, the complainants have also been copied into this notice, 
and they are invited to make comments within the time limit too if they wish.
The complainants responded to my preliminary view and welcomed it. They also 
summarised their feelings about their complaint. CM did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I retain my preliminary view (as quoted above) on the complaint, in terms of our jurisdiction 
and in terms of the complaints merits. I incorporate the crux of my preliminary view into this 
decision.
Regulated Activity
In the context of investments and in terms of the subject matters we can address in a 
complaint, the regulator defines our jurisdiction in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
its Handbook. It does so as follows:
DISP 2.3.1
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001, and 
also in the context of investments, regulated activities include advising on investments. 
Investment advice is therefore a regulated activity.
Investment advice is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
There is further useful guidance in the Handbooks Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG):
PERG 8.28.2
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
A key message in the guidance within PERG 8.28 is the need to establish that a value 
judgement, about the merits of an investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, 
which influenced the latters investment decision. On balance, I consider that the contents of 
CMs response to the complainants, as quoted above, serves as reasonably competent 
evidence that its principal advised the complainants. 
As I said in my preliminary view, CMs response  refers to its principal reviewing the 
complainants existing investments; to him discussing alternatives with the complainants; to 
him explaining the nature of the Rhombus bond that he says they selected; and to him 
explaining the nature of the Rhombus bond that he says they selected. I consider that these 
activities amount to advisory conduct (with regards to the Rhombus bond investment) and 
that they illustrate CMs provision of an advisory service to its customers, the complainants. I 
note that there is evidence of a longstanding adviser-customer relationship between the 
parties and the events related to the Rhombus bond investment appear to have been a 
continuation of that relationship. In terms of this services jurisdiction, my preliminary view is 
that CM conducted a regulated activity in advising the complainants and that they were its 
customers, so this service has jurisdiction to address their complaint.
Eligible Complainant
A complainant must be eligible to complain. Otherwise this service cannot consider the 
relevant complaint. The regulators rules DISP rules for an eligible complainant include the 
following:
An eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee 
of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. [DISP 2.7.3 R] 
An eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship 
covered by the rules. [my emphasis] [DISP 2.7.6 R]
consumer
This is the only category under DISP 2.7.3 R to consider for the complainants  given that 
they are not a micro enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a 
guarantor. Guidance from the rules says a consumer is any natural person acting for 
purposes outside his [or her] trade, business or profession. The complainants acted as 
individuals in this case. I have not seen evidence to suggest that they were professionals in 
investments or that they conducted such a business or trade  especially as they were retired. Their roles in the complaint appear to have been for purposes outside their trade, 
business or profession, so they are consumers.
relationship
The rules cover a number of relationships. In terms of investments, the relationship between 
a customer and a business is one. Guidance from the rules says the word customer should 
be given its natural meaning  that is, a person who buys goods and/or services from a 
business. 
The service rendered to the complainants by CM is confirmed in its response to them (as 
quoted above). They were quite clearly its customers and its response even refers to an 
ongoing service provided after its advice to them.
For the above reasons, I consider that the complainants were consumers, were CMs 
customers and are eligible complainants.  
Suitability
Rhombus was an offshore unregulated fund at the time of the complainants investment. 
About a year thereafter the regulator publicly shared some concerns about the fund 
targeting people in the UK. I acknowledge that this happened after the complainants 
investment in 2015, but CMs principal would have been aware of its offshore and 
unregulated characteristics at the time of advice  his response to them last year refers to 
him highlighting its unregulated nature. He would have also known that the fund allowed no 
UK regulatory protection to the complainants. 
The funds terms and conditions also provided for the exclusive application of the offshore 
home nations governing law and jurisdiction to the investment contract. Overall, it was a 
high-risk unsecured debt-based investment that was administered offshore, and that did not 
match the complainants risk averse and retired profile. The fund was too risky for them and 
was unsuitable for this reason. On balance, I also accept the complainants account of 
events describing their satisfaction with the previous investments they were persuaded to 
replace with the Rhombus fund and that they were led by CM to believe the fund suited them 
 as opposed to selecting the fund wilfully as CM claims. I find the complainants 
submissions, and overall position, to be sincere and I have not seen evidence to doubt them.
Conclusion
For the above reasons, I uphold the complainants complaint.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put the complainants as close as I can to the position they 
would probably now be in if they had not made the unsuitable investment in the Rhombus 
fund. I take the view that they would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair given available information, as summarised above, about their profile at the 
time.
what must CM do?
To compensate the complainants fairly, CM must:Compare the performance of their bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay them compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay them interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide them with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
The 
Rhombus 
fundstill existsthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement Not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided the complainants agree to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If 
that is not possible then CM may request an undertaking from the complainants that they 
repay to CM any amount they may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all of those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
As stated above, evidence is that the complainants were risk averse at the time of the 
investment.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that the above benchmark matches the investment profile the complainants 
shared in 2015, and that its use in calculating compensation for them would 
reasonably put them into a position that broadly reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from a suitable investment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint from Mr A and Mrs A. I order Craig 
Mitchell to pay them compensation as set out above and to provide them with a calculation 
of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman