DRN-2888398
The complaint
Mr G  on behalf of an unincorporated association (L)  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
have unfairly denied him access to business internet banking. 
What happened
Mr G was elected treasurer of L in February 2020. He is a signatory on the account and has 
access to telephone banking, but he later applied for access to business internet banking so 
he could make electronic payments on Ls behalf.
HSBC said Mr G would need to provide appropriate documentation confirming he had 
authorisation (in line with Ls governing documents) to have sole access to Ls internet 
banking account. They said he would need to supply an amended constitution or bylaws 
from the society that included wording to this effect, as Ls bylaws didnt refer to payments or 
delegation of the same to one person.
Mr G explained that it would be particularly onerous to amend Ls bylaws, as this would take 
several meetings and votes in order to implement. He says that HSBCs insistence of a 
change to the bylaws was unfair as other groups within the society had been able to access 
their internet banking without having to make any such amendment.
HSBC said that Ls governing constitution stated who could make electronic payments, 
which said that L may by resolution authorise the Treasurer, but on no pretence any other 
[member], to make payments from [the societys] account by electronic means; in the 
absence of any such resolution all payments from the [society] funds shall be made by cash 
or cheque. Given that Ls bylaws were silent on who could operate the account, HSBC said 
it would require a resolution in line with Ls governing rules. As a compromise, they said 
they would be willing to accept such a resolution in the form of written minutes from Ls 
meeting stating that Mr G had been nominated as the primary user. However, Mr G 
explained that this also would be very difficult to obtain.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 June 2021, where I set out the 
following:
I appreciate that section 153(a) of [Ls governing constitution] does not restrict L from 
having access to internet banking. However, it does state that L may authorise the 
treasurer by resolution to make payments by electronic means, but in the absence 
of any such resolution, only payments by cash or cheque may be used. Ls bylaws do 
not specifically name Mr G as having delegated authority to make electronic 
payments from the account as a sole user. Therefore, I think HSBC is justified in 
seeking an official resolution in line with the [governing constitution]  whether thats 
through amended bylaws that set this out, or minutes that confirm a resolution was 
passed making Mr G the primary user of internet banking. This is a legitimate 
exercise of their commercial judgment, and its not something I consider to be 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand that the original mandate provided to HSBC in 2008 already names 
Mr G as an account signatory. But this does not provide him with delegated authority 
to be the sole user of internet banking. Had the original mandate of 2008 been for 
Mr G to make payments from the account alone with no other signatories, then I 
appreciate this argument would hold more substance. But there are three other 
signatories on the account. There is no specific resolution or governing document 
from what Ive seen that would allow him to act as the sole internet banking account 
operator. So, if HSBC were to allow him this access with nothing further, it could 
leave the bank exposed to issues regarding authorisation if any other signatory were 
to later dispute any transactions made by the treasurer, when theres no governing 
document or resolution having been passed to this effect in line with L's constitution. 
I appreciate that other [societies] may have been given access to internet banking in 
different circumstances. But I am not considering the validity of other requests that 
concern individuals that are not party to this complaint, or why they may have been 
granted such access. I am looking at the merits of this particular case and the 
circumstances in which HSBC are requesting further information. I also, understand 
that HSBC may have incorrectly given Mr G sole access to telephone banking, as 
well as previously allowing him to issue cheques in his sole name. But this does not 
mean that the bank must now provide him access to internet banking as well if, upon 
reflection, theyve realised they do not have the requisite authority from the societys 
governing committee. 
 
I also understand it would be quite a lot of hassle for L to change its bylaws in line 
with HSBCs requests, or for a formal resolution to be passed. But the fact that [Ls] 
processes may make it difficult or cumbersome to achieve the resolution does not 
mean that HSBC should have to accept anything less, or that they should be 
compelled to grant Mr G sole access to internet banking without it. HSBC have also 
said that they would be prepared to accept the resolution in the form of written 
minutes from a future meeting (rather than a full change of the bylaws) which I 
consider to be a fair and reasonable compromise in the circumstances.
For these reasons, I do not intend to uphold this complaint, as I consider HSBCs 
requests to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I will not be asking them 
to take any further action.
I invited further comments from both parties in response to my provisional findings. HSBC 
accepted my findings, but Mr G did not, and provided his reasons for disagreeing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered Mr Gs recent comments in response to my provisional findings, but Im 
afraid this does not change the conclusions I have set out above. I appreciate that Mr G 
does not think HSBC have acted fairly or reasonably in their requests, and I understand that 
Ls governing constitution is primarily to govern its relationship with its parent society, rather 
than its relationship with the bank. However, given that it specifies the circumstances in 
which a member can make electronic payments from a sub-ordinate societys account, I 
dont think its totally irrelevant or inappropriate for HSBC to have taken it into account, or to 
now seek a resolution in line with the societys rules. 
I understand it places an onerous burden on Mr G as the society seemingly has strict rules 
that do not make a resolution with specific wording easy to obtain. But as I said in my provisional findings, I consider HSBCs requests in this regard to ultimately be a legitimate 
exercise of their commercial judgment in order to protect their interests, because there are 
risks involved for them if they do not obtain the necessary authorisation to allow Mr G to be 
the sole user of Ls internet banking. 
So, Im still not persuaded that HSBCs requests are unreasonable in this regard. I also 
understand that this is all largely a moot point now given that Mr G has since opened an 
account with another bank that have allowed him internet access. But the fact that another 
bank may not have made the same requests as HSBC does not mean that their requests 
were inherently unfair.
I also acknowledge that Mr G hasnt received the best level of service from HSBC as he has 
been given conflicting information at times about what form of authorisation would be 
accepted. But I can see that HSBC have already awarded £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by their errors, which I consider to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances, and a proportionate reflection of the inconvenience likely caused to L.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, and I am glad to hear he has since 
found an alternative resolution by opening an account with another bank. But I will not be 
directing HSBC to take any further action in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G  on behalf 
of L  to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman