DRN-3499815
The complaint
Mr T complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) havent dealt fairly with his 
complaint about the quality of his car. He feels theyve unfairly calculated what would be due 
back to him if the car was rejected. 
What happened
Mr T had a previous agreement for a car which had problems and eventually in January 
2019 this car was replaced with a new one on a new hire purchase agreement. The 
agreement was over three years and included 35 monthly payments and a final balloon 
payment due after 3 years. 
Mr T complained to Black Horse in February 2021, saying he had suffered several issues 
with the car dating back to 2019. He said that by June 2019 hed had problems with the boot, 
and problems with the power adjustment of the drivers seat. Black Horse confirmed that the 
drivers seat had to be repaired in June 2019 when the car had covered around 6,000 miles, 
but they said they had seen no evidence of problems with the Boot. 
Mr T also told them that hed begun to suffer further problems with the vehicle in December 
2020. There was evidence of an engine management light being investigated and issues 
with the exhaust gas circulation cooler being identified at the dealership, and a filter being 
changed to try to fix this. The mileage was noted as around 24,500 at this point. 
However, the engine management light came on again shortly after, and further 
investigations were carried out at just under 26,000 miles travelled. At this time, the VVT 
solenoid was replaced. 
Then in February 2021 Mr T contacted Black Horse to say the car still had problems when it 
was returned to him, so it was kept at the dealership for further testing. A timing chain was 
identified as having failed and was replaced. The finance company said they believed this 
was most likely to have been the actual cause of the issues encountered in the previous few 
months. 
However, Mr T said that when he took the car back, he still felt there was a problem and the 
car felt underpowered when driving. At this point, in March 2021, the dealership couldnt find 
any further fault, so they advised the car was ready for collection. 
Black Horse upheld Mr Ts complaint on 1 April 2021, agreeing that the car was not durable. 
They said that the problems with the drivers seat and the engine not running properly 
between December 2020 and March 2021 meant that they didnt feel the car had been of 
satisfactory quality. 
To put things right, they offered to collect the vehicle and close the agreement. Alongside 
this, they said they would refund Mr Ts £11,628 deposit he had paid, make a £200 payment 
to him for the trouble and upset caused, and a £200 payment in recognition of any loss of 
enjoyment, including recognising where courtesy cars provided might not have been like for 
like compared to his car. Finally, they offered a partial refund of his monthly payments which 
they calculated as £1,919. They explained this calculation was based on comparing his 
overall monthly payments made up to this point, less a mileage charge of 45p per mile for 
the 27,580 miles he had covered in the car. 
Black Horse explained in their final response letter (FRL) that this offer was from them as the 
finance provider and any alternative resolutions offered by the dealer or manufacturer would 
be separate to their investigation and its conclusion. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mr T brough his complaint to our service in May 2021. He told us he 
didnt feel being charged for mileage was fair and was unhappy with the 45p per mile rate 
being charged. 
Unfortunately, we were unable to look at his case until 2022 due to work volumes. Mr T had 
not accepted the offer to process the rejection from Black Horse, and consequently he still 
had the car in January 2022 when the three year contract came towards its end. So, Mr T 
chose to part exchange the vehicle at the end of the finance agreement and took out a new 
finance agreement for a new car. 
 We investigated the case in April 2022, and the investigator contacted Black Horse who 
said that because Mr T had chosen not to reject the car and return it to them, and instead 
part exchanged the car, they would not honour the original offer from April 2021. They were 
prepared to offer the £200 for trouble and upset and the £200 for loss of enjoyment, but the 
refund of deposit and partial refund of monthly payments would have required Mr T to agree 
to a rejection and to return the car to them. Instead, he had part exchanged the car in 
January 2022 towards a new car agreement. 
The investigator gave their view in April 2022 that they felt the reduced offer of £400 by 
Black Horse was fair, because Mr T hadnt rejected the car when given that option, but 
instead had kept it and part exchanged it nine months later as part of the deal for a new car. 
He had benefitted therefore from the deposit initially paid and the mileage being under the 
contracted figure, when he had part exchanged the car. 
Mr T didnt agree with this and raised further points. He said the rejection was made in good 
time and the Ombudsman service should consider the rejection offer still. He said the car 
was part exchanged at a mileage of 41,729 and he had only received £7,212 deposit 
towards his new agreement as opposed to the £11,628 deposit he would have been due 
from a rejection. He highlighted that his deposit was in fact £500 more than the £11,628 due 
to a holding deposit he paid and made further points about the 45p per mile usage charge 
being unfair. He also said that the offer for trouble and upset didnt cover his costs for regular 
garage visits and breakdowns. 
The investigator confirmed that these points didnt change their mind, and so Mr T asked for 
an Ombudsman to look at the case again and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Black 
Horse are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
Rejection of a car is a remedy available to consumers under the CRA. In this instance, both 
parties have agreed that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, as it was not proving to be 
durable. Black Horse in their FRL on 1 April 2021 have agreed that car wasnt durable and 
said Mr T could reject it. They would take the car back and unwind the agreement. They 
would refund him his deposit he had paid for the car, and make further payments as 
described above to him. 
But Mr T chose not to proceed with this. He felt that the calculations used to work out a 
partial refund of his payments werent fair, so he has kept the car while bringing his case to 
our service to review his complaint and concerns. Im sorry that because of volume of work, 
we werent able to start this investigation for around 11 months. By this time, Mr Ts hire 
purchase agreement had come to an end, and he had decided to part exchange the car. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr T didnt feel that the financial settlement they offered alongside 
the return of the car was what he wanted, if he felt the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and 
wanted to give it back and end the agreement, he was given that offer. Black Horse gave 
him the opportunity to return it, get his deposit back that he had paid, receive a partial refund 
of his monthly payments and payments for the trouble and upset and loss of enjoyment.
If Mr T wanted to reject the car, but didnt feel the financial offer was enough, it would be 
reasonable to contact the business to arrange the collection of the car, while ensuring they 
understood he was going to escalate his complaint about the amount offered as part of that 
rejection. This could still have happened right up to the point he chose to part exchange the 
car; indeed when our service contacted Black Horse in April 2022 to begin our investigation, 
the initial conversation was about whether they had offered the correct deposit refund 
amount, and Black Horse initially were looking into this. 
However, at this point, they looked into the history of the car and realised that Mr T had in 
fact by then sold the car (part exchange) and so they withdrew the offer. They explained that 
they now couldnt agree to make the payments to refund the deposit, or the partial monthly 
payments, as Mr T now couldnt return the car back to them and reject it as he had sold it 
and put the proceeds towards a new car and agreement. 
Mr T has told us that hes unhappy that when he carried out the part exchange of the car, he 
only benefitted from £7,212 deposit towards his next car, a lot less than if hed rejected the 
car and got his previous full deposit back of over £11,000. But Im unclear why he proceeded 
to part exchange the car, knowing that information. Ive seen no evidence that he contacted 
Black Horse again when his agreement was coming towards its end, to ask them if he could 
still give the car back as a rejection, and he hasnt told us this happened. 
On the balance of probability, I think that the conversations Black Horse had with our service 
in April 2022 would suggest that if he had contacted them and asked to process the rejection 
of the car before the end of his agreement it in January 2022, on the terms already offered, subject to the case remaining with our service for the terms of the rejection to be 
investigated, they most likely would have agreed this. And we would certainly have been 
able to conduct an investigation into the terms of the rejection and whether they were fair.  
However, Mr T has chosen not to request Black Horse collect the car and process the 
rejection. After this was offered in the FRL on 1 April 2021, he has instead driven the car for 
around another 13,000  14,000 miles in the nine months following Black Horses offer to 
allow the rejection. Hes then part exchanged the car at the end of the agreement. I 
understand that he did this in the hope that our service would still have been able to 
reconsider the offer Black Horse made for rejection and increase it. But Im sorry to say, that 
that wouldnt be fair now, as Black Horse wont receive the car back, which would be their 
right under a rejection. 
I also think its relevant that in their FRL issued to Mr T, Black Horse explained that this offer 
was from them as the finance provider and any alternative resolutions offered by the dealer 
or manufacturer would be separate to their investigation and its conclusion/offer. Whether it 
was his planned intention or not, Mr T hasnt accepted their offer to reject the car and has 
instead negotiated another deal with a dealer to part exchange the car.   
Black Horse accepted the car was unsatisfactory quality and agreed to process a rejection 
for it. Mr T has said to us when asking for a final decision on the complaint that The 
rejection was made in good time when asking us to consider the rejection terms. 
Unfortunately, this isnt the case. The offer of rejection was made in good time, but Mr T 
didnt proceed to return the car. In reality, this means he has chosen not to reject the car and 
has then sold it instead.  
Ive considered whether hes done this because he didnt understand the implications of 
what he was doing, but Im not persuaded by this argument. I think Mr T had the relevant 
information to help him make the decision, and Ive seen no evidence that he was given any 
wrong information by Black Horse or told he could no longer reject the car.  
If Mr T had in fact rejected the vehicle, we could still have looked at the terms of that 
rejection and whether Black Horse had treated him fairly and ensured the redress offered 
was fair. If it wasnt fair, we could have made a finding asking Black Horse to cover any 
further redress we felt they needed to pay. 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to retrospectively consider the rejection of the car now. 
The business has not had their asset (the car) back. Black Horse were clear in the FRL that 
what they were offering was from the finance company and separate from any other 
resolution he might seek or be offered by anyone else. 
I have however considered the terms of the rejection, to sense check whether they would 
have been broadly fair, based on Mr Ts concerns about them. I can appreciate that these 
terms, if clearly not in line with what we would expect to see, might have clouded Mr Ts 
judgement around what to do. But Im not persuaded the terms of the rejection were unfair. 
The CRA states that If the consumer exercises the final right to reject, any refund to the 
consumer may be reduced by deduction for use, to take account of the use the consumer 
has had of the goods since they were delivered 
Black Horse have made a mileage deduction for use, and Mr T felt that the pence per mile 
calculations they used were unfair. If a case comes to our service, and we have to 
recommend redress for a rejection, we wouldnt consider the calculations in the same way 
the business have done. But the CRA doesnt specify how these calculations should be 
carried out, so the business is entitled to work them out however they choose to do so. We would always then sense check the outcome, to ensure we felt it was in line with our 
expectations and felt fair, on a case by case basis. 
Any refund of payments/fair usage charges we recommended would usually take into 
account periods when the car was off the road, when the faults with the car prevented Mr T 
from using it at all. We would also consider whether the use of the car was impaired in any 
way, either by some lack of enjoyment caused by faults occurring, or any functions or 
features of the car not working properly. We might also consider things like courtesy cars 
provided in this scenario. 
In this case, Mr T has used 41,000 miles of the contracted maximum of 51,000 miles. Its 
also relevant that part of this contract fell during lockdown, when most of us drove less miles 
than we normally would. I recognise that there were periods of a number of weeks where the 
car was not able to be used, and other periods where Mr T had to take the car back to be 
checked and fixed, as well as him having concerns about its performance and the impact 
this would have had on him. 
On this basis, the payment offered by Black Horse of £1,919 feels fair in these 
circumstances. When the offer was made, this equates to a refund of around 12.5% of the 
payments he had made up to that point. If I consider the evidence weve been provided, I 
think that was a fair offer. Alongside this, he was offered a further £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused, and £200 for lack of enjoyment. Put together with the return of his deposit and 
the return of the car and ending of the financial agreement, I think this offer from Black Horse 
was fair. 
It seems that there may have been a small difference in the deposit refund offered to Mr T, 
compared to the actual figure, based on information Mr T has provided to us more recently, 
before the case came to me for a final decision. But this wasnt raised by Mr T as one of his 
concerns with the rejection offer at the time, and Im not persuaded its significant and would 
have caused his actions to change regarding acceptance of the offer to reject. Mr T felt the 
pence per mile charge for fair usage was considerably too high, and this was the focus of his 
concerns, and the reason he has said he didnt accept the offer to reject. Im also confident 
that if the deposit figure was incorrect, and it had been raised with Black Horse at the time, 
they would have amended their offer to the correct amount. 
I empathise with the problems Mr T had with the car, but I am satisfied that Black Horse 
dealt with him fairly when they offered to allow him to reject it. Because he didnt accept that 
offer and return the car to them, I wont be asking them to honour that rejection offer now. 
They wont get their asset back, and as such, rejection is no longer a suitable remedy here.
I agree with the Black Horse amended offer to pay the £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused, and the £200 for loss of enjoyment suffered by Mr T. I think this recognises the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr T, as well as the lack of enjoyment caused by the car having 
some problems. If this £400 hasnt been paid already, Black Horse and Mr T can arrange 
this now. But I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything further.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2023.
 
Paul CroninOmbudsman