DRN-3689875
The complaint
Ms T complains that after a temporary payment deferral on her catalogue shopping account
had ended, J D Williams & Company Limited told her she had to make two payments within
a month, which she couldnt afford. As a result, she says shes had fees and interest added
to her account.
What happened
Ms T agreed a temporary payment deferral on her catalogue shopping account with J D
Williams. This ended on 30 September 2020. Ms T says she was sent a letter saying she
needed to make a payment by 21 October, so she made a payment of £120 on 20 October.
She was then sent a statement on 21 October that said she needed to pay a minimum
payment of £108 by 11 November.
Ms T wasnt able to make another payment so close the previous one. She complained to
J D Williams in November as her account had been restricted and shed been charged a fee.
J D Williams responded in January to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong so didnt
uphold her complaint.
A default notice was issued in April 2021, as no payments had been made since the
payment in October 2020. Ms T contacted J D Williams in May 2021 to explain she was
suffering financial difficulties. At this time a payment arrangement was agreed where no
interest would be charged if Ms T paid £50 every 28 days.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint where I explained why I thought J D 
Williams had done something wrong and what I thought needed to be done to put things 
right. I said:
Unfortunately, neither Ms T nor J D Williams have been able to provide a copy of the actual
letter Ms T was sent when the temporary payment deferral ended. But J D Williams has said
a letter was sent on 2 October and it has given us the template for the type of letter that was
sent. This said:
This payment will be due to be paid by , which is when your next statement (following 
your temporary payment deferral) will be issued
Ms Ts next statement was due to be issued on 21 October. So, based on the wording set
out above, its likely the date in the letter would have been 21 October. I appreciate
J D Williams disagrees, but its not explained why the date would have been anything
different to the next statement date, given what the template letter says.
Im satisfied Ms T was under the impression she had to make a payment by 21 October, and
thats what she did. But even if that wasnt as a result of something J D Williams did (which
to be clear, I think it probably was), I dont think this was dealt with by J D Williams very well
when Ms T raised it with them.
Whats actually happened here is that Ms T made her payment too soon  she paid it before
the statement was issued, so it didnt count as her minimum payment for that month. Thats
why she was charged an administration fee and the account went into arrears.
Im not clear why, when Ms T raised this with J D Williams, it didnt just waive the
administration fee and amend its records to show the payment had been made. After all, it
had received a payment towards the account for more than the minimum payment set out on
the statement, albeit sooner than it needed it. Given what it knew about Ms Ts
circumstances  shed just finished a payment deferral period, which had been agreed
because she was struggling financially. And shed said she couldnt afford to make another
payment. I would have expected J D Williams to do more to help.
Overall, I think J D Williams has done something wrong. Where my decision differs from
what the investigator said is in what J D Williams should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When deciding what J D Williams needs to do to put things right, I need to think about what
position Ms T would have been in if it hadnt done anything wrong. In this case, that means I
need to decide what position Ms T would have been in if J D Williams hadnt sent a letter
with the incorrect due date for the payment.
If the letter had included the correct payment date, I think its likely Ms T would have made
the payment by the due date set out in the statement, rather than before the statement was
issued. So she wouldnt have incurred the administration fee and her account wouldnt have
gone into arrears in November 2020.
Our investigator thought that if J D Williams had put things right when it issued its final
response letter in January, Ms T is likely to have spoken to J D Williams sooner about her
financial difficulties and she would likely have agreed the payment arrangement sooner. As a
result, our investigator thought Ms T probably wouldnt have paid any interest between
January and May 2021.
While its possible Ms T might have contacted J D Williams sooner, I cant ignore what she
actually did. Despite being sent letters explaining her account was in arrears and she
needed to make payments, Ms T did nothing until around the time she was sent the default
notice. I appreciate Ms T had an ongoing dispute with J D Williams about the one payment in
October/November 2020, but she would have known she had missed all the payments since
then, and that shed still have an outstanding balance with J D Williams, whatever the 
response to her complaint. And she chose not to contact J D Williams to discuss her
situation.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its more likely Ms T would still have waited until May
2021 before contacting J D Williams, even if it had put the October/November payment right
in January 2021. So she would always have incurred the interest she did on the account up
until the point the payment arrangement was agreed. And her credit file would always have
shown missed payments for these months.
Ms T has recently raised concerns about J D Williams charging interest and charges on her
account, despite knowing about her financial difficulties. But my decision is only about what
happened in October/November 2020, as thats what Ms T complained about. If shes
dissatisfied with what J D Williams has done since it dealt with her original complaint, shell
need to make a new complaint about this to J D Williams in the first instance.
In summary, I currently think J D Williams should:Refund the £12 administration fee Ms T was charged in November 2020 and make 
sure she hasnt been charged any interest in relation to this fee
Remove any information recorded on Ms Ts credit file about the missed payment in 
November 2020.
J D Williams responded to my provisional decision to say it would agree to do what Id set 
out in my provisional decision if Ms T accepted it. Ms T has now confirmed she accepts my 
provisional decision, but shes made several points about her current balance and the 
interest and charges that have been applied to her account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither J D Williams nor Ms T have provided any new evidence or arguments in response 
to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
I appreciate Ms T is unhappy with the current position of her account and the way 
J D Williams has treated her since her original complaint. I can understand why she thinks 
its all linked with what happened in October/November 2020, as the position with her 
account has got worse since then. But while Ms T says she would have continued with the 
payments if nothing had gone wrong in October/November, Im not persuaded this is likely.
When Ms T contacted J D Williams in May 2021, a payment arrangement was agreed where 
she paid £50 a month. Presumably this was because Ms T couldnt afford to pay more than 
this at that time. So its doubtful she would have been able to afford to continue making the 
minimum payments, thereby avoiding the extra interest and charges she incurred, as well as 
the impact on her credit file, if nothing had gone wrong in October/November.
As our investigator has explained, if Ms T is unhappy with the way J D Williams has dealt 
with her account since January 2021, when it looked at her original complaint, she will need 
to make a complaint to J D Williams in the first instance. I am not able to look at a complaint 
until the financial business has had a chance to do so.
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right J D Williams should:
Refund the £12 administration fee Ms T was charged in November 2020 and make 
sure she hasnt been charged any interest in relation to this fee.
Remove any information recorded on Ms Ts credit file about the missed payment in 
November 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ts complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right for Ms T in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman