DRN-3805220
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) gave her unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
Mrs P sought investment advice from a financial adviser on behalf of Zurich in 1997. The 
adviser conducted what they called a financial health check and recorded down with 
Mrs P different aspects of her financial circumstances.
Acting on the advisers recommendation, Mrs P agreed to invest £100 a month into a 
savings plan where the proceeds would be invested. This was called a Maximum 
Investment Plan (MIP).
Mrs P through her representative, says after being asked out of a scale of one to four, 
with four being the highest, what her attitude to risk was, she replied two. This, on 
Zurich scale was on the cautious side of balanced. With Cautious being a rating of 1 
and Speculative being 4. She says investing in a managed fund with 75% in equities is 
not a fair reflection of the attitude to risk she held at that time.
Mrs P also complained that she was not looking for life cover and only was looking to 
save. She also added that the savings plan term was over ten years, but Zurich gave no 
rationale as to why that term was suitable. She also mentioned the performance of the 
fund and that the life cover payment affected this performance. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
The investigator gave their view about life cover being included in the plan and neither party 
has made any further comments about this. So, I dont feel I need to comment anymore 
about it, other than to say that I can see it was a component of the plan and acknowledge 
Zurichs comments about why it was. What I need to look into is what I see as the crux of 
Mrs Ps complaint. This is whether the advisor on behalf of Zurich gave advice that was 
suitable for her at that time. So, I have looked into this in more detail.
When thinking about whether Zurich gave Mrs P suitable investment advice, Ive thought 
in particular about the amount she invested and the risk this involved. The questions that I 
think need answering are: was the investment advice Zurich provided suitable for Mrs P? 
did its recommendation meet Mrs Ps attitude and capacity to risk? And could she afford 
it?  
With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mrs Ps financial situation in 1997 when 
Zurich provided investment advice and made its recommendations to Mrs P.
Zurich has produced paperwork including a fact find document that it called a financial 
health check. This document shows that Mrs P was asked a series of questions about her 
finances, what she wanted to invest for and her attitude to risk. Mrs P then signed this 
document.
Mrs P told Zurich that she was looking to save so she could provide a capital sum for her 
daughters in the future. 
There is a section in the fact find with a question directly about risk attitude. It says: 
what is your attitude to investment? This suggests to me a conversation was had about 
Mrs Ps risk attitude. This led to Zurich identifying Mrs Ps investment approach as 
balanced  but I can see on balance, this would be on the cautious side of balanced. I 
say this because the second of four options was ticked. The four categories on the fact 
find form were listed as cautious, then two for balanced followed by speculative. So, I 
think, by choosing the lower number for balanced from those listed, Mrs P was 
demonstrating a more cautious attitude.
The adviser from Zurich recommended the MIP  a managed investment fund. I have seen 
the fact sheet that has been provided by Zurich. This is not from the time the fund was 
recommended but from a few months later in September 1998. Zurich says it couldnt 
obtain a fact sheet from the time of the meeting but that this is the closest to then that it 
could find. I think that this fact sheet gives me the best idea as to what the fund was 
invested in at the time of the meeting.
I can see from the fact sheet that the fund was primarily invested in equities from the UK 
and overseas with 75% of funds put into this asset class. 25% was then allocated to cash, 
bonds and properties. I am not persuaded on seeing this, that this fairly matches Mrs Ps 
risk attitude as demonstrated in the fact find. As I have already described, Mrs P ticked the 
box next to two out of four that is on the cautious side of balanced. Based on what is 
provided on the fact sheet, I dont think the fund recommended by Zurich matches that. 
I also havent seen anything within the documentation from Zurich where it has clarified Mrs 
Ps attitude to risk and how it has matched its recommendation to that rating, other than 
what has been completed on the fact find. I can take no assurance with what I have seen 
that the adviser picked the fund based on what they felt Mrs Ps attitude to risk was at that 
time. 
In addition, I also think Zurich ought to have considered Mrs Ps capacity to the risk she 
took on by investing in this savings plan. Mrs P had no previous experience of investing in 
anything other than putting money into a savings account. She did have some disposable 
income and the amount she was committing to was, I think, affordable for her, but she had 
limited savings and I am not sure that she would have had the capacity to absorb any 
losses, that may have come from taking on more risk. So, although I do think the savings 
plan was affordable for Mrs P, I dont think she had the capacity to take on the risk 
associated with the managed fund recommended by Zurich.  
Taking everything into account, I dont think the fund that was recommended by Zurich 
was suitable for Mrs P. This is because, on balance, I think the fund was not fairly 
matched with Mrs Ps attitude towards risk. In addition, I dont think Mrs P had the 
capacity that would make this savings plan a suitable recommendation either, for the 
reasons I have already given. 
So, with that in mind, Zurich need to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mrs P responded and was in agreement with my findings in the provisional decision. Zurich responded and did not agree. It said my rationale for 
rejecting the investment as a suitable fund should not be compared against the 
standards of today, but as it was in 1997. It also said for clarity, that the investment was 
not a managed fund, as I had described it, but was a qualifying unit linked combined life 
assurance and savings plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Zurichs points made within its submission and response to my provisional 
decision. I can assure it that I took into consideration what the standards were at the time 
Zurich recommended the investment to Mrs P and that formed part of my rationale for 
upholding her complaint, for the reasons I have already given. I have also noted Zurichs 
point regarding its view on the fund and it being, as it has stated, a qualifying unit linked 
combined life assurance and savings plan.
After reading both parties submissions, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings 
within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Putting things right
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Zurich must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ps investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value 
and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Zurich should pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal from the Maximum Investment Plan should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?Portfolio 
NameStatus Benchmark From To Additional 
Interest
Maximum 
Investment 
Plan  
Managed FundNo longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK private investors 
income total return 
index; for the other 
half: average rare 
from fixed rate bondsDate of 
InvestmentDate fund 
ceased to be 
held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from end 
date to the date 
of settlementI have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs P told Zurich she wanted a balanced approach to investing but chose the more 
cautious option within this approach. So, I think she wanted capital growth but with 
only a small risk to her capital.
The 50 / 50 split between FTSE UK private investors income total return index 
and the average rare from fixed rate bonds, I think achieves that aim.
The redress I have proposed would reasonably put Mrs A into a position she 
would have been in if the adviser had recommended to her a more cautious 
investment. I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mrs P could have obtained from investments suited to her objective 
and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd and it now 
needs to put things right as I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman