DRN-4035975
The complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly 
allowed him to open a credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr A says he opened the account in 2019 but was in financial difficulties at the time. He says 
he was at the limit of his overdraft, and had other credit commitments. Mr A says the account 
was unaffordable and would like all charges refunded.
118 188 Money says it carried out appropriate checks on the application and later credit limit 
increase. It says Mr A declared an income of nearly £4,500 a month and it calculated his 
outgoings at significantly less than that. 118 188 Money says it checked Mr As credit file and 
didnt see any adverse information such as defaults. It says it approved a credit limit of £200 
which was increased to £600 in 2020.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought appropriate checks were carried out and that on the face of it Mr As income was 
sufficient for any repayments whilst his outgoings were limited. The investigator didnt think 
there any adverse information on Mr As credit file that ought to have been considered.
Mr A doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks on any credit or loan applications to ensure they can be repaid. Those checks will of 
course vary depending on the type and amount of that lending. This was a credit facility and 
so I wouldnt have expected 118 118 Moneys checks to have been as detailed compared to 
for example a mortgage or large loan application. But of course, appropriate checks must be 
carried out.
I have looked carefully at Mr As application and at the checks 118 118 Money carried out as 
well as at Mr As credit file. I can see Mr A declared an income of about £4,500 a month and 
declared his outgoings as being relatively limited. I dont think Mr A has told us what was the 
cause of any financial difficulties. I can also see that 118 118 Money carried out checks on 
the affordability of the account and considered Mr As credit file. So, Im satisfied that 118 
118 Money did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr As application. I dont 
think there was any adverse information on Mr As credit file that 118 118 Money ought 
reasonably to have considered which would have led it to conclude the lending was 
unaffordable. For example, Mr A didnt have any defaults recorded on his credit file and 
appeared to manage other accounts appropriately.
So, Im satisfied that the lending was not unaffordable and that 118 118 Moneys decision to 
open the account was not irresponsible. Im also satisfied that 118 118 Money approved 
what I think was a very modest credit facility of £200.
The credit limit was increased in 2020 to what I again think was a very modest amount of 
£600. I can see 118 118 Money assessed Mr As credit file and again carried out affordability 
checks. I have not seen any evidence that the decision to increase the credit limit was 
unaffordable and am satisfied appropriate checks were carried out.
Overall, Im satisfied 118 118 Money carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr 
As initial application and on the later small increase to the credit limit. It follows that I cant 
fairly order any charges be refunded in those circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman