DRN-4051956
The complaint
M complains about hidden charges by Metro Bank PLC when completing currency 
conversions on receipt of international payments. M also complains that Metro closed its 
account. 
What happened
M opened a business account with Metro in September 2021. Ms director, Mr S, has told us 
he visited a Metro branch and asked about the process of receiving transfers in foreign 
currency into the Metro account. Mr S has explained he was advised Metro didnt apply 
charges or commission when completed currency conversions following receipt of an 
international transfer. 
In January 2022 M received $30,000 and it was converted to sterling by Metro. But, M 
received less than expected once the conversion was completed and contacted Metro. On 
Ms behalf, Mr S complained and Metro sent him a final response on 15 February 2022. 
Metros final response advised it used the market rate to convert the dollars to sterling and 
added a 3% margin, which is why there was a difference in the amount M received. Metro 
advised its branch staff couldnt recall giving Mr M information about the exchange rate and 
margin used for international transfers. 
Metro later agreed to refund the margin it applied to the $30,000 international transfer M 
received in January 2022. 
Further transfers were received in March, April and May 2022. All transfers were converted 
to sterling with a 3% margin added by Metro. Mr S complained again to Metro on Ms behalf. 
Metro says it reviewed Ms account and contacted Mr S in April 2022 to give 60 days notice 
of its intention to close it. 
Metro sent M another final response on 8 July 2022 but didnt agree it had incorrectly applied 
its margin to the exchange rate used. And Metro didnt agree it had made a mistake by 
taking the decision to close Ms account. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms complaint. They thought Metro had dealt with 
Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. On Ms behalf, Mr S asked to 
appeal and Metros terms didnt clearly explain how charges or margins would be applied to 
incoming international payments. Mr S pointed out the 3% margin isnt specifically noted in 
Metros account terms and conditions. Mr S also said Metro had only advised him of the 3% 
margin after M had already received two international transfers. As Mr S asked to appeal Ms 
case, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr S has pointed out Metros terms dont confirm a specific margin or charge will be applied 
to incoming international transfers. Metros terms say: 
There is a charge for international transactions into and out of your account. Please contact 
us for the latest charges or have a look on our website. We will take charges from your 
account when you receive an international payment. 
Mr S has explained that he visited a Metro branch before receiving the first payment and 
was told there was no charge or commission applied to incoming international transfers. 
Metros told us its been unable to confirm what Mr S was told. But I accept that Mr S was 
most likely advised there was no commission or charges applied to incoming transfers. Its 
clear Mr S was surprised and concerned that M received significantly less than expected 
once the currency conversion was completed and quickly went on to raise a complaint. So 
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Metros branch staff failed to correctly explain the 
way it processes international transfers or the costs involved. 
With that being said, Ive listened to a call Mr S had with Metro on 4 February 2022. During 
the call, the agent and Mr S discussed whether the Mastercard rate was applicable for 
international transfers. A complaint was raised which was responded to on 15 February 
2022. And in that final response, Metro confirmed it applies a 3% margin to inbound 
international transfers received in another currency. 
I accept the terms do not give a specific fee, charge or margin applied to currency 
conversion. But the terms do not say they are completed at the Mastercard rate or without 
any charge or cost either. The terms advise customers to contact the bank or go online for 
information about charges. I accept that when Mr S spoke with Metros agent they were 
unable to find the information on its website. And I also accept that Mr S sought clarification 
in branch but doesnt appear to have received the correct information. But, Metros final 
response dated 15 February 2022 does contain a clear explanation of how it processes 
international transfers. And the final response says Metro will use the market rate with a 3% 
margin applied. So Im satisfied that on 15 February 2022 Metro confirmed to Mr S on Ms 
behalf that it applies a 3% margin when completing inbound currency conversions. 
Whilst Metro didnt initially uphold Ms complaint, it did go on to refund the margin it applied 
to the January 2022 conversion it completed. Mr S has requested a refund of the margin 
applied to transfers M received in March, April and May 2022 as well. But Im not persuaded 
thats fair. At this point, whilst I appreciate Mr S remained unhappy at the nature of the 
margin applied, Im satisfied Metro had made the process and margin used clear. So Im 
satisfied that any subsequent international transfers received were done so after Metro had 
already confirmed how much the process would cost. As the margin Metro uses was 
confirmed in Metros final response and it subsequently agreed to refund the margin applied 
to the first international payment M received, Im satisfied it has taken reasonable steps to 
resolve Ms complaint. 
Mr S has raised concerns about an internal email he received from Metro. And Mr S has 
made various arguments concerning whether the nature of the deduction and whether it was 
a charge, commissions or a fee. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. We assess complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. Whilst I will 
take the relevant laws and regulations into account, along with any terms and conditions that 
apply, my decision is made based on whether I think a business has acted fairly or not.
Whilst I agree the terms and conditions dont contain a specific charge or calculation for 
Metros margin, it doesnt say international transfers will be converted free of charge either. 
The terms confirm there is a charge by Metro for this service. So there was never an option 
for M to receive international transfers that needed conversion to sterling without being 
charged for the service. And whilst I accept Mr S was most likely not told about the margin 
Metro applies when he visited the branch, Im satisfied its final response correctly confirms 
its position. So from that point, Im satisfied M and its director were in possession of the 
information that sets out the margin Metro applies. Im not persuaded it would be fair to tell 
Metro to compensate M for the margin it applied after the final response was issued on 15 
February 2022. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found grounds to award further 
compensation in relation to the international transfers received. 
Metro has confirmed it reviewed Ms account and took the decision to end its banking 
relationship. Metro gave two months notice of its intention in April 2022. Metros terms and 
conditions say it may close an account or stop providing a service by giving two months 
notice of its intention. I understand Metro has cited a change in risk appetite and Mr S has 
requested additional information about its decision. But Metros terms dont say Metro has to 
give a specific reason when it provides two months notice of its intention. I havent been 
persuaded that Metro bank made a mistake or treated M unfairly when closing its account.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Metro dealt with Ms complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman