DRN-3390658
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his 
claim under his legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S says he was approached by a firm of solicitors (Ill call P) in 2015. They offered him 
assistance with a claim relating to medical negligence on a no win, no fee basis. Mr S 
accepted their offer.
P obtained After the Event legal expenses cover for the claim from DAS in April 2016.
P obtained two expert opinions. As a result of the second opinion P concluded that Mr Ss 
claim did not enjoy any reasonable prospects of success. P chose to discontinue to act for 
Mr S.
Mr S did not agree with the second experts opinion and complained about it to both DAS 
and P. DAS forwarded the concerns to P. DAS explained  following Mr Ss questions  that 
he could instruct a different firm of solicitors. 
DAS wasnt advised of any new solicitors acting for Mr S; DAS therefore suspended the 
indemnity and paid Ps costs and disbursements to date. 
Mr S did try to instruct another firm a few weeks later, in November 2018. There was a 
discussion about whether the new firm could take up the medical negligence claim, but that 
firm advised they wouldnt act for him because the time for service expired shortly
During 2021 Mr S complained to DAS about its claim handling. DAS didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It explained that as the policy was an After the Event policy it wasnt 
responsible for Ps costs, Mr S had instructed P and it was not responsible for Ps handling 
of the claim.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view. He said that on our website it says:
However, if a solicitor handled a claim poorly, and you were aware of this but didnt 
intervene, we may tell you to compensate the policyholder for distress and inconvenience, 
financial loss, or damage.
He also said DAS was fully aware that the limitation period had expired on the claim but 
didn't intervene. He was simply left with insufficient time and support to get another unbiased 
expert report, which is unfair. There was a report available which supported his case for 
negligence by the general practitioner, but DAS seemingly ignored this. Also, he was cold 
called by P (who he regards as DASs agent) at the outset and talked into taking the policy 
out with DAS, unbeknown to him that the policy would be used by the solicitor to pay for an 
inaccurate, expert report that lacked a "range" of opinion and was therefore not fit for 
purpose. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
Just to be clear I do not have jurisdiction to look at the acts or omissions of P or the experts. 
P are not DASs agents they are an independent law firm. I can only look at what DAS has or 
hasnt done.
The policy taken provides that DAS may end cover under the policy if DAS and Mr Ss 
solicitors agree that it is more likely than not that the claim will be lost.
In this case P advised DAS that following the second experts opinion Mr S did not enjoy any 
reasonable prospects of success. 
I can understand that this must have been devastating news for Mr S to hear. Mr S felt that 
the expert was biased and had other concerns about the report produced. DAS was not 
responsible for choosing the experts. I think DAS responded sympathetically to Mr Ss 
concerns. It raised these with P. And it considered Ps reply. But I think it should have gone 
further, it should have asked for and considered a detailed prospects of success letter. DAS 
doesnt think it needed to consider this because it wasnt responsible for Ps legal fees. I 
disagree I still think that in order for it and P to agree that it is more likely than not that the 
claim will be lost it needs to have the detailed explanation. Otherwise it is not agreeing with 
P it is just going along with P. I appreciate that in this case DAS initially only suspended the 
cover but this doesnt change my mind about the need for it to see a detailed prospects of 
success letter from P.
Ive considered what would have happened if DAS had asked for a detailed prospects of 
success letter. It is difficult to say what would have happened without having seen what P 
had to say. The investigator did ask Mr S to send any such letter he had received to her, but 
he hasnt yet done so. Given the information I currently have I think it is most likely that DAS 
would have concluded  after reading a detailed assessment of prospects from P - that it 
was more likely than not that the claim would be lost. So, I dont think its failure to consider a 
detailed prospects of success letter changed the outcome of Mr Ss medical negligence 
claim. But I do think the failure to consider a detailed assessment will have caused Mr S 
some distress given how significant the case was to him. I therefore think  subject to any 
further comments by either party  that DAS should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the 
distress caused to him.
Given that the new firm of solicitors which Mr S approached declined to act for him due to 
the time for service expiring shortly I think it is worth noting that DAS regularly chased P and 
that as soon as it became aware P would no longer act for Mr S it made it clear to him that 
he could instruct a different firm of solicitors. I therefore dont think it did anything wrong with 
regards to ensuring the timeliness of the file management or making clear to Mr S his 
options.
Mr S may feel this proposed award doesnt reflect the amount of distress he was caused. I 
dont underestimate how upsetting this all was for him but for the reasons I have said already 
I think DAS only played a small part in this distress and the proposed award reflects that.
Responses to my Provisional Decision
Neither Mr S not DAS agreed with my provisional decision.DAS says it is an insurance company and therefore it is wholly reliant upon the insureds 
solicitors to provide it with a legal view and inform it whether the case is likely to fail. As an 
insurer it is not qualified to make such decisions and the solicitors were appointed by Mr S 
and not DAS, therefore it has no involvement in the legal decision making. It says once P 
told it they had spoken direct to Mr S and explained to him that based upon the medical 
evidence they had obtained, they were of the view he no longer had reasonable prospects of 
succeeding with his claim that was all it needed. It says there was no need to incur further 
unnecessary legal costs by asking P to provide DAS with a more detailed explanation. Mr S 
entered into a retainer with P which does not involve DAS and if he disputes the legal 
assessment, he needs to take this up with his solicitors as DAS did not appoint them or the 
experts they have relied upon.
Mr S says he has reports confirming that the doctor was negligent. He feels DAS closed its 
file before he had chance to go to another solicitors and he thinks it was mainly concerned 
with closing the claim. He thinks DAS has a duty of care and has not treated him fairly. He 
also says that DAS and P are in partnership and has directed me to a website to show this. 
He says DAS should be jointly and severally liable for Ps actions. He reminds me he was 
cold called by P and says he was sold a policy not fit for purpose by a partner of DAS. He 
thinks the nature of the relationship between DAS and P may be why DAS just went along 
with what P said. He also points out that DAS closed its file 10 days after advising him to see 
another solicitor. He says by the time he saw another solicitor the file was closed. He says 
DAS should offer something in the region of £200,000 for not being able to pursue the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand DASs points, but I still think it should have obtained a detailed prospects of 
success letter from P; it doesnt matter that this was an after the event policy or that Mr S 
instructed P directly. We do not expect insurers to review such letters as though they were 
qualified lawyers but we do expect them to look at them and consider if they are well 
reasoned, dont contain obvious factual errors and are written by a legally qualified person. 
DAS has said there was no need to incur further unnecessary costs by asking P to provide it. 
I think the costs of such a letter would have been minimal. P may have already provided one 
to Mr S in which case this could have just been forwarded to DAS. If P hadnt written one, it 
shouldnt have taken P long to set out an opinion it already had formed. 
I also understand Mr Ss continued upset about how things turned out. I dont agree that 
DAS is responsible for the actions of P. P is an independent law firm and whether or not 
DAS calls its arrangements with law firms partnerships when seeking to work with law firms 
does not mean DAS is jointly and severally liable for the actions of P.
I dont think the timing of DAS closing its file made any difference to Mr Ss case. When he 
approached another firm of solicitors to act for him, they declined to act for him so it didnt 
make a difference that DASs file was closed and in any event the file could have been re-
opened if necessary. 
I think DAS did try to help Mr S and was sympathetic to him. The only area where I found it 
should have done something it didnt do was regarding obtaining (or this case not obtaining) 
the prospects letter. As I said in my provisional decision, I think it is most likely that had DAS 
received this letter DAS would have concluded that it was more likely than not that the claim 
would be lost. So, I dont think its failure to consider a detailed prospects of success letter 
changed the outcome of Mr Ss medical negligence claim. But I remain of the view that 
failing to obtain this letter has caused Mr S distress.Overall, I am not persuaded to change my mind by the responses from either party to my 
provisional decision and I confirm it here now.
Putting things right
To put things right I think DAS should pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order DAS Legal Expense Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman