DRN-4421898
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked access to his account without notice and 
without telling him why it had done so.  
What happened
Mr A opened an account with Monzo a few years ago. On 8 July 2022 Monzo blocked the 
account, so that Mr A could not use it to make payments. Credits could still be made to the 
account. 
Mr A asked why the account had been blocked and when he might be able to use it again. 
Monzo did not give him any details about the reasons for the account restriction and said 
that it could not say how long it would last. 
In the event, the restrictions were lifted on 18 July 2022  that is, on the eighth working day 
after they were put in place. Monzo said that the account had been restricted while it carried 
out regulatory checks. Whilst it did not believe it had done anything wrong, it offered Mr A 
£115 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put and credited his account 
with that sum on 25 July 2023. 
Mr A complained to this service about what had happened. Our investigator did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought that Monzo was within its rights to 
restrict the account and that, in any event, the compensation paid was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr A did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
broadly the same reasons.  
Banks and other financial institutions have certain legal and regulatory obligations, which in 
some cases might require them to review customers accounts. That in turn may require 
them to place restrictions on an account while that review is completed. Banks do not 
generally have to give notice of a review or to provide reasons for it. 
I am satisfied in this case that Monzo was within its rights to conduct the review and to block 
Mr As account while it did so. I am satisfied too that it was not required to give notice to Mr 
A or to explain its reasons in any more detail than it did. 
I have therefore considered how the review was carried out and, in particular, whether the 
account was restricted for any longer than necessary. The restrictions were lifted after seven 
working days. That does not seem to me to be unreasonable. 
Given that I think Monzo acted within its rights, I dont need to consider the impact on Mr A. I 
will however comment briefly on that. Mr A says that direct debit payments could not be 
taken while the account was restricted. I can see from statements in the months before July 
2022 that four direct debit payments were likely to have been affected. Mr A would have 
been able to make any payments which had been missed on or shortly after 18 July 2022. 
And he says that he had to borrow money; but, again, he would have been able to repay any 
loans  whether commercial or informal  in the same way. 
I note that Mr A has said that his account has since been closed by Monzo. As the 
investigator explained, however, that is a fairly recent development and not one that forms 
part of this complaint. I therefore make no comment on it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not 
require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything further to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman