DRN-2175097
The complaint
Mr G complains that EUI Limited misadvised him when he made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy and wrongly paid him a cash sum in lieu of repairing his car.
What happened
The front passenger-side door of Mr Gs car was damaged in an accident. EUIs advisor told 
him its engineer thought the damage couldnt be repaired by EUI, as adjacent previous 
damage to the car had been repaired. The engineer said as there was a problem with the 
thickness of the paint across the side of the car, blending the paintwork would be difficult. 
And if that extra work was done, it would mean Mr G would be over-indemnified. So instead, 
EUI offered him cash in lieu of repairs (a CIL payment). Mr G says he accepted it on the 
basis that the door needed to be repaired, not replaced. But a garage he went to for an 
estimate then told him the door must be replaced. 
EUI said the advisor had made a mistake, as the engineers estimate and the CIL payment 
were based on the door being replaced. It offered Mr G £50 compensation for the error. He 
said the sum was inadequate given the time hed spent on the claim and the stress hed 
faced. He said he would easily have been able to get the door replaced himself, so had he 
known that was the situation, he would not have proceeded with the claim and would have 
retained his no claims discount (NCD).  
EUI said had its approved repairer done the work, it wouldnt have been able to provide a 
guarantee due to the issue with the paintwork. It pointed out that it had the right to decide 
how to deal with any claim and had the option to repair a vehicle or pay a cash sum to the 
policy holder. Although it accepted that an advisor had given Mr G the wrong information, it 
said it would always have dealt with the claim on a CIL basis, which included a sum for 
replacing and painting the door. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint. Initially, she thought it should be upheld. 
She said there was no evidence that the previous repairs hadnt been completed properly, 
so there was no reason EUI couldnt have proceeded with the repairs to the door. She 
thought it should pay Mr G a further £50 compensation (£100 in total) as well as repairing 
the car or paying any extra that Mr G may have to pay his own garage for repairs. 
EUI clarified the facts by pointing out that the approved repairers report showed evidence of 
a vast difference in the thickness of the paintwork along the whole side of the car, which the 
repairer wouldnt be able to blend out. And it thought £50 compensation was fair. 
The investigator then issued a second view, not upholding the complaint. She said EUIs 
repairer would have had to carry out extra work given the variations in the paintworks 
thickness. As Mr G had said he would have withdrawn the claim had he known the door 
needed replacing, she suggested that he could buy back the claim from EUI. She said if he 
returned the CIL payment his NCD would be reinstated.  
Mr G said he didnt understand why EUI couldnt just replace the door (and paint it in the 
original doors colour) and do no other work on the car. He said EUI had left him with the 
potential problem of blending any paintwork at his own cost. He suggested that the approved 
repairers equipment may not have been working correctly when it made its assessment. 
And he repeated that the £50 compensation on offer was too low. 
The investigator said EUI thought the approved repairer would have to blend the paintwork 
on the new door with the adjacent panels, which meant carrying out work that wasnt 
accident-related. Otherwise, the repair wouldnt be done to the standard EUI thought it 
should be. Mr G said he still didnt understand why EUI thought extra work had to be done. 
In his view, the problem was that the necessary work wasnt profitable enough for the 
approved repairer, so it had an incentive to get out of doing the job. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The approved repairer sent its report and opinion to EUI, whose engineer agreed that it 
would be appropriate to make a CIL payment to Mr G. So it wasnt the repairers decision not 
to do the work. I think EUI acted reasonably in the circumstances. Mr G doesnt agree with 
its decision, but two engineers arrived at the same conclusion. Theres no evidence that the 
equipment used by the approved garage in assessing the car was faulty  or that it just didnt 
want to do the work, as Mr G has assumed.  
Under the policy, EUI had the right to decide how to settle the claim, whether Mr G agreed 
with its decision or not. I think it has shown that the sum it offered Mr G was reasonable, as it 
covered the cost of replacing the door and painting it to match the colour of the original door. 
As there was no other accident-related damage, it wasnt required to do anything else. 
Mr G doesnt think EUI has understood the fact that he didnt ask it to do anything other than 
repair the door, but I dont think thats the case. Theres nothing contrary in the case file to 
suggest it didnt follow what he was saying. Although Mr G doesnt agree with EUI on the 
issue of extra work, I think its a view EUI was entitled to take in the circumstances here.
Mr G wasnt aware of previous repair work having been done on the car, but I dont think its 
in doubt that work must have been done on it prior to Mr G buying the car. In my opinion, the 
fact that neither he nor EUI was aware of that doesnt mean EUI should have to deal with 
any extra tasks arising from it as part of this claim. Mr G says its decision leaves him with the 
problem of dealing with any blending of the paintwork  but if Mr Gs view that no extra work 
will be needed is right, then once a new door is fitted and painted, there wont be a problem.
EUIs advisor shouldnt have told Mr G that the door was going to be repaired rather than 
replaced, as that isnt what was in the report the approved assessor had submitted. So I 
think it was reasonable for EUI to offer Mr G compensation for the error. I dont think it 
should have to increase the sum it offered. The advisors error no doubt caused Mr G some 
confusion, but the CIL payment would always have been made, unless Mr G withdrew the 
claim, which he could have done at the time.  
In terms of Mr Gs NCD, Mr G says he wouldnt have continued with the claim had he been 
told initially that the car only needed a new door. If thats the case, his NCD would have 
remained in place but hed have had to pay for the repairs himself. Mr G is confident that the 
accident was non-fault. If so, his NCD will be restored in due course once liability is accepted 
by the other insurer. Alternatively, he could ask to buy the claim back from EUI, as the 
investigator suggested. We think its fair for insurers to agree to these requests. Mr G told us 
at the start that hed be happy to return the CIL payment - as long as EUI then proceeded with the repair. I think EUI has made it clear why it isnt prepared to do that, and we cant 
instruct it otherwise, as it seems to have made a reasonable decision.  
  
From everything hes said, I think much of Mr Gs unhappiness with EUI is that it didnt 
accept his point of view, which he tried hard to get across to it. He still doesnt think its 
decision not to repair the car is right. I know Mr G feels very strongly that he was let down by 
EUI, but as I dont think it acted unreasonably in the way it settled his claim, I cant uphold 
his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman