DRN-1906426
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them three regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs K the policies when they took out three loans. The loans were 
taken out in 1994, 1996 and 1998. Although the loans were taken in Mr and Mrs Ks joint 
names the two later policies covered Mr K only. It is not clear whether Mrs K was covered on 
the first policy as although the insurer had the policy in joint names from what we know 
about Nationwide policies sold at the time only the first policyholder wouldve been covered 
and the other party was covered for life cover only. 
The policies covered Mr K if he lost his job for up to 12 months or was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness for up to 24 months on each loan.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld against any of the sales 
because he thought the paperwork for the last loan made it clear that PPI was optional and 
he hadnt seen anything to suggest it wasnt made clear in the other sales. He also thought 
PPI wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr and Mrs K disagree. They say they didnt know the policies were optional. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint on any of the sales of PPI.
Nationwide say the last policy was sold over the phone but it hasnt been able to confirm 
how the other policies were sold. Mr and Mrs K say they were sold during a meeting and 
Nationwide hasnt ruled this method of sale out. So I cant say exactly what was said at the 
time these policies were sold.
So to decide how the PPI was presented, Ive considered what Mr and Mrs K have said 
along with what Nationwide have said about their sales process and any documents weve 
been given from the time of each sale as well as samples of documentation. 
Mr and Mrs K say they werent told the PPI was optional. Nationwide say that its sales 
process wouldve been followed and that Mr and Mrs K wouldve been given enough 
information to decide if they wanted to take the PPI. Nationwide say that the PPI wouldve 
only been included on the credit agreements if Mr and Mrs K had consented to it.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ks signed loan agreement from the last sale. I see it clearly 
set out the costs of the loan and the Optional Credit Insurance below this with the cost of 
the monthly premium. I dont think that Mr and Mrs K wouldve thought the PPI wasnt 
optional when thats how its described in the loan agreement they signed. 
And from what I have seen of Nationwide loan agreements from the time they all follow the 
same format and all describe PPI as optional. So I think its likely the loan agreements for 
the first two loans wouldve been similar to the 1998 agreement they signed.
And I think if Mr and Mrs K hadnt agreed to take out PPI or thought they had no choice in 
taking the PPI they wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional 
within the agreements. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs K had PPI on their loans because 
they chose to take the loans with PPI.
Nationwide say the sale of the PPI on each loan was non-advised. From what I understand 
of its sales process I think this wouldve been the case. What this means is that in its view it 
didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs K, it just gave them information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr 
and Mrs K could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
From what I can see on the loan agreement provided and sample documentation I think the 
cost of the PPI wouldve been clear, but I dont know if the other information given was good 
enough. In saying that I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I still think Mr 
and Mrs K wouldve taken out the policies because at the time they took out each loan:
From the information I have, theres nothing to suggest Mr K wasnt eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim. 
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable.
Mr K says he wouldve been entitled to sick pay and a redundancy package. But the 
PPI wouldve provided them with a useful benefit as a successful claim wouldve paid 
out on top of this and for potentially longer for up to 12 months if he became 
unemployed or 24 months if he was too sick to work.
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr and 
Mrs K. I think they wouldve still taken the PPI as it was useful for their needs and was of 
value to them. 
And because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs K are any worse off as a result of any wrong 
doing by Nationwide in any of the sales of PPI that this complaint relates to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 Caroline Davies
Ombudsman