DRN-2324234
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to keep him up to date with his
account switch application which meant he used his previous account card which was
declined.
What happened
Mr R says he applied online to switch his account from a business I will call L to Nationwide
on 29 November 2019. He says Nationwide said it would keep him up to date with the
process and send him a letter when the switch was complete. Mr R says on 17 December
2019 he tried to make a payment using his L account card in a supermarket, but the
payment attempt was declined which caused him embarrassment. He says he found out
later that his balance in his L account had been transferred to his Nationwide account and
the switch had been completed but he hadnt been told that. Mr R says he was told that e-
mails from Nationwide had bounced back to it but says it could have called him or sent him 
text messages as it says it would. He would like compensation for the embarrassment and 
for the time spent bringing this complaint.
Nationwide says it sent Mr R e-mails about the process, but some were rejected and
returned to it. It says it completed the account switch on 17 December 2019 and Mr R was
able and did use his Nationwide account from 11 December 2019. It says it makes clear it
aims to compete the process in seven working days and that includes, as in this case,
closing Mr Rs old account with L.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld his complaint. The investigator
thought Mr R had other ways of paying at the supermarket and that he had set the
communication preference to e-mail. But the investigator thought Nationwide knew some of
the e-mails had bounced back and so should have done more to communicate with Mr R
such as by text or telephone. The investigator accepted Mr R would have been caused some
embarrassment and recommended Nationwide pay £75 compensation.
Mr R agrees with that view, but Nationwide doesnt. It says Mr R chose e-mail as his
preferred contact and questions why he would use his L account card.
Mr R says the L account was his main account and would have removed that account card if
Nationwide kept him up to date.
The investigator issued a second view and came to the same conclusion and also thought it
unlikely Mr R had his Nationwide account card with him as it wasnt used on 17 December 
2019.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I came to the provisional view that I didnt uphold this complaint.
I said there was no doubt here that Mr R made the switch application on 29 November 2019 
and I was satisfied the information Nationwide made available told Mr R that it would 
complete the process in seven working days. I was also satisfied it was made clear that 
Nationwide would arrange to close Mr Rs L account and transfer any money in that account 
to it. So, I thought Mr R ought to have been aware that his L account would close shortly 
after he made the switch application and, in those circumstances, I wouldnt have expected 
him to attempt to use his L account on 17 December 2019.
I could see that Mr R started using his Nationwide account on 11 December 2019 and made 
a number of transactions up to 16 December 2019. So, I thought Mr R ought reasonably to 
have been clear that the switch process was ongoing and progressing and that his L account
would shortly close. I appreciated Mr R says he was expecting notification of that from
Nationwide and that some of the e-mails that were sent to him bounced back. But for the
reasons I explained I thought even if Mr R didnt receive those e-mails it ought to be clear 
that his L account would close.
I appreciated that the investigator thought Nationwide ought to have known the e-mails had
bounced back and should have considered alternative contact methods. But I didnt think it
reasonable to expect Nationwide to monitor accounts and e-mails in this way. And I could 
see that Mr R requested e-mail as his preferred contact and didnt provide his mobile 
telephone number in the contact section. I thought it not clear why some of the e-mails were 
returned and Mr R hasnt explained if he agrees with Nationwide, that his e-mail settings 
may have caused the issue by rejecting no reply e-mails.
Overall, I thought provisionally that regardless of the communication problem Mr R ought
reasonably to have been aware that his L account would close seven working days after he
made the application. And so, I didnt think Nationwide should pay compensation for any
embarrassment he was caused by his L account card not being accepted. And I didnt think 
it reasonable for Mr R to continue to use his L account as his main account on the basis he
was waiting for Nationwide to tell him it was closing or was closed as that could have taken 
place at any stage.
Mr R has replied to my provisional view and disagrees with it. He says Nationwide didnt 
provide him with a switch date and had no contact with it. Mr R says in any event the switch 
process took longer and says he did provide his mobile telephone number. And his e-mail 
provider did tell him the e-mails had not been received by him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I have come to the same overall view that I did in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
I have looked carefully at what Mr R would have seen when he made the online switch 
application. And I think the time scales were provided and significantly that Nationwide made 
clear it would arrange to close his L account. So, Im satisfied that regardless of the fact that 
Mr R didnt receive the e-mails it ought to have been clear that his L account would be 
closing and that the switch process was ongoing as the Nationwide account was opened and 
being used. I accept the switch process may have taken longer than Nationwide said it 
would, but I dont think that is the issue here or that is what Mr R is complaining about. 
Overall, I find Mr R ought to have realised his L account would close as he told Nationwide 
to arrange that and at some point, his L account card would stop working. I also think that if Mr R knew he hadnt received any communication from Nationwide then he could have 
asked it for an update as I have explained that I dont think Nationwide would have known 
that for whatever reason there was a problem with the e-mails.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman