DRN-2931001
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled her 
claim following an accident, in particular that she didnt receive a courtesy car until three 
days after the incident.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mrs Ws motor insurance policy states that she will be provided with a courtesy car 
following an accident, while her car is being repaired. So, she could reasonably 
expect to receive a courtesy car when her car was taken in for repairs. The incident 
occurred on 8 February 2021 and her car was taken to the garage that day. But 
Mrs W didnt receive a courtesy car until 11 February 2021. 
AA have acknowledged that they didnt correctly notify the garage that a courtesy car 
also needed to be provided. It was only after the repairer had contacted AA on 
10 February 2021 that they realised an error had been made. 
Mrs W also asked for a call back regarding liability of the accident and this wasnt 
received. This meant she had to chase AA herself which she found frustrating.
I agree with our investigator that the £30 compensation offered by AA isnt sufficient 
to cover both the loss of use of a vehicle and the trouble and upset suffered by 
Mrs W. She has explained that she helps to care for an elderly relative in a different 
county and was not able to do so because of AAs delay - which she found 
distressing. Being without a car for three days also meant that she had to rely on 
friends and relatives for shopping and other activities which was inconvenient and 
frustrating.
Looking at everything holistically, I think our investigators recommendation of £100 seems 
fair and reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case, to compensate for the 
errors AA made and the impact they had on Mrs W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
 
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs W £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman