DRN-4196016
The complaint
Mr J complains about the delays caused by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
when he claimed under his home emergency policy for his leaking boiler.
What happened
In summary, Mr Js boiler started leaking so he raised a claim under his home emergency 
policy, which was underwritten by RSA. He chased up action on his claim and a week after 
reporting it an engineer attended. Mr J didnt hear anything more from RSA so, after a few 
weeks, he continued to chase an update.
Two months after the first engineer visit, Mr Js boiler stopped working, leaving him without 
heating and hot water. He complained to RSA. 
RSA arranged another engineer visit, who agreed with the assessment of the first engineer  
the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). However, Mr J said he hadnt been made 
aware of the first assessment. 
Mr J had a new boiler installed and he asked RSA to cover the full replacement cost and 
refund his policy premium. RSA acknowledged Mr Js complaint, but it didnt make any offer 
to resolve matters. So, Mr J brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt have a response from RSA to begin with, and based on the evidence 
available she upheld Mr Js complaint. To put matters right, our investigator said RSA should 
pay Mr J £300 compensation for the six months delay, and cover the full cost of the 
replacement boiler.
RSA didnt agree. It provided a report confirming that its first engineer concluded the boiler 
was BER and that Mr J was told at the time. However, it accepted thered been delays and 
agreed to pay the proposed compensation.
On receipt of the new evidence, our investigator decided that RSA should pay a contribution 
towards the boiler in line with the policy, and pay £400 compensation for the delays.
Mr J didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. That said, Im not asking RSA to do 
any more than our investigator proposed in her second view. Ill explain why.
The facts of the matter arent in dispute. RSA accepted it didnt handle the claim as well as it 
shouldve done, and Mr J was left with a faulty boiler for several months. So, my role is to 
decide what action is fair and reasonable to put matters right.  
When Mr J made his claim, the faulty boiler was 13 years old. RSA didnt cause the fault and 
its shortfalls in service are limited to its lack of communication with Mr J. So, Id expect RSA 
to be addressing those shortfalls. 
The engineer report RSA provided shows that it deemed the boiler beyond repair. That 
doesnt necessarily mean it couldnt be repaired: it just wasnt worth repairing because the 
cost to do so was higher than the value of the boiler.
RSAs shortfall here was in failing to tell Mr J what his options were. Mr J thought his claim 
was being handled, whereas RSA knew it wouldnt be fixing the boiler. So, Mr J was left with 
a faulty boiler unnecessarily for around two months before it stopped working altogether.
In addition to this, Mr J spent time chasing an update from RSA when it shouldve made him 
aware it wouldnt be repairing the boiler. I accept that wouldve caused Mr J inconvenience.
In consideration of the service shortfalls, I think £400 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
sum to reflect RSAs lack of communication during the whole time Mr J had a faulty boiler.
Mr J asked RSA to refund his premium. The policy provided cover for a number of different 
home emergencies, not just the boiler. And, although RSA didnt handle the boiler claim well, 
it did provide a service. Im satisfied that the policy would need to be in place for Mr J to 
benefit from it, so I cant reasonably ask RSA to refund the premium.
Leading on from that, the policy provides for a contribution towards the cost of a new boiler 
in the event it is deemed BER. Mr Js boiler was 13 years old. The policy states that RSA will 
contribute a sum up to £150 for boilers aged between 11 and 15 years. As his boiler falls 
within this age bracket, Im satisfied that RSA should pay him £150 towards his new boiler.
I understand Mr J would like RSA to pay in full for his new boiler. Thats in part because he 
thinks it wouldnt have been necessary to replace the boiler if RSA had completed a repair 
when he first claimed. There are two issues here:
The first engineer deemed the boiler BER, so RSA was never going to repair it. I 
realise Mr J didnt know that, but thats why Im asking RSA to pay compensation. 
Therefore, RSAs communication shortfalls and inaction didnt lead to the boiler 
breaking down completely.
Secondly, the policy only provides for a maximum of £1,000 per claim. So, RSA 
wouldnt have paid more than that for Mr Js boiler in any event.
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA should pay £150 towards the cost of Mr Js boiler in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, and pay £400 compensation for the avoidable delays and 
inconvenience RSA caused by not communicating effectively with Mr J throughout his claim. 
In light of all the evidence, I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr J £150 towards the cost of his new boiler in line with the policy, and 
pay Mr J £400 compensation in recognition of the service shortfalls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman