DRN-2117669
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of his business, E, a limited company, about what happened
when he asked Barclays Bank UK Plc to make an overseas transfer out of Es account.
What happened
Mr W told us hed already made one transfer to an overseas business partner, and now
needed to make another one, for £29,987. But he found that the payment details hed
previously used had been deleted from his account.
Mr W said that the transfer details he had were somewhat confusing, as they offered two
different BIC codes. It had taken quite some time the first time he sent a payment to work
out which BIC code to use. Mr W wanted to be sure that he used the same details as the
previous transfer, which had been successful. So he went into a branch of Barclays, to ask a
cashier to look up the previous transfer and make the same transfer again.
Mr W said that he asked the cashier a number of times if she was sure that the BIC was the
one used in the previous transaction. He wasnt sure about this. But she said it was. 
Mr W said he wasnt able to see the screen showing the details of the previous transfer
himself. So he accepted the advice of someone he considered to be a professional, and
transferred the money using the code she chose. He said the money disappeared, and it
took some weeks, and a considerable amount of chasing by Mr W, before the money
reappeared. Barclays wouldnt lend him this amount in the meantime, and it told him he
might not get the money back.
Mr W said he did eventually get all the money back, but he didnt think that the £75 that
Barclays had offered was enough to put right what had gone wrong here. Hed lost a
promising business relationship, and hed spent weeks worrying that the money wouldnt
reappear at all. And he said that with the change in exchange rates, he lost about £1,000 on
the later exchange.
Barclays said that Mr W had signed, on behalf of E, and he was expected to check the
details used. But it did think its service on the day fell short of its expectations, so it offered
£75. Barclays internal notes say that it upheld this on misadvice, so it appears to have
accepted Mr Ws version of events. It responded to our service to say it apologised for the
typing error, but it still thought the main responsibility in this case rested with Mr W, who had
signed to say the details were correct.
Barclays also said that Mr W was sending funds in pounds sterling. Barclays wasnt making
the exchange, so it would only ever have been able to give him an indicative rate. It didnt
think it should pay for exchange rate loss.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. Although she didnt doubt that 
Mr W relied on the information the cashier gave him, hed still signed to say the payment 
details were correct. So she didnt think it would be fair to hold Barclays solely responsible 
for these details being wrong.
Our investigator didnt doubt that the time while the money was missing was a stressful time
for Mr W, but she didnt think she couldve asked Barclays to do more than it did.
Our investigator said the exchange rate wouldve been set by the beneficiary bank, not
Barclays, and she didnt feel that Barclays should pay for any loss, because Mr W signed the
transfer form.
But our investigator didnt think that £75 made up for what had gone wrong here, given the
time Mr W spent chasing the missing money, and the stress this caused. She said Barclays
should pay £150 in total.
Barclays agreed to pay the additional compensation, but Mr W didnt agree. He didnt think
our service had taken proper account of the fact that hed relied on Barclays telling him
which BIC had been used previously, and not letting him check this for himself. He said
thats why he lost money. Our investigator said he shouldve realised the details werent
correct. Mr W asked if the advisor he spoke to, or someone else who was there, had been
asked about his version of events. He still thought hed been wrongly advised and that was
why the money went astray.
Barclays wrote to ask why Mr W had quoted a rate from 18 September, some days after the
transfer he tried to make on 4 September. This case was then passed to me for a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Barclays says it isnt liable for any loss that E made on this transfer, because Mr W 
signed the transfer form, with the incorrect details. It appears to consider that this 
was a typing error. But I dont think thats where the key mistake in this case was 
made.
Barclays says it removes unused payment details because it thinks these become 
out of date, so it wants to prevent customers from using outdated details. It says 
what should have happened when Mr W went to a branch, is that he shouldve 
been told to recheck those details with the recipient. But Barclays hasnt suggested 
that is what happened.
Barclays hasnt asked the cashier about this transaction, and in particular, whether 
Mr W had asked about the BIC used previously, and if hed been given the 
reassurance he claims. It appears to have accepted that this was true. I dont think 
theres any point in asking Barclays now if it can contact its staff member about this, 
as I think shes unlikely to remember this transaction after this length of time. And I 
note that Mr W has been consistent throughout in what he said. I find his description 
of events plausible. I think its likely that Mr W did ask the cashier which BIC code 
had been used for the previous transaction, and was given advice about this. This 
advice was wrong.
I know Mr W then signed a form which said hed confirmed that the details he was 
using for this transaction were accurate, and explained the payment might be 
delayed or cancelled if they were wrong. I think Mr W did this in reliance on advice 
hed just been given by the cashier.I do need to bear in mind here that Mr W told us he had some doubts about the 
advice he was given, but accepted what the cashier said. So I dont think that 
whats gone wrong here is all Barclays fault. But I also need to bear in mind that if 
its cashiers advice hadnt been wrong, Mr Ws transfer would not have failed. I 
dont think a payment of £75, or indeed of £150, is enough to make up for that.
Mr W wanted Barclays to pay what hed lost on the change of exchange rate, 
which he said was £942.99. Barclays has queried why Mr W had quoted a rate 
from 18 September, some days after the transfer he tried to make on 4 September. 
The answer to this is set out in its own internal notes on the complaint.
Mr W said Barclays had told him that the transfer could take up to ten working 
days to process. So he used the exchange rate ten working days after the transfer 
was requested, which he said was $1.64 to the pound, to work out what his payee 
wouldve got if this transfer had gone through. Then he said the rate slipped to 
$1.59 on the day the transfer was made. He worked out a difference of £942.99. 
Mr W said hed tried to borrow this money from the bank, to avoid exchange rate 
losses, but wasnt able to.
I dont think it is likely that this transfer wouldve taken ten working days. I know that 
Barclays said it might take this long, but in my experience its quite unusual for a 
successful international payment to take that long. I think it wouldve been more 
likely to be completed in four to five working days. So I think the exchange rate on 
11 September is more likely to be relevant here. I understand that Mr W then made 
the transfer on 2 October.
The rates I can see historical exchange rate records for these dates werent 
significantly different, and would give a difference of very considerably less than Mr 
W suggested. I also note that the rate I can see for 2 October seems rather better 
than the rate Mr W has quoted. If Mr W hasnt achieved rates close to those 
showing on historical exchange rate records, then that would be as a result of the 
transfer providers he chose. Thats not Barclays fault. I dont think that Barclays has 
to pay Mr W £942.99.
But I still think that Barclays role in this, and responsibility for the mistake, was 
rather more than it appears to have accepted. So I do think that Barclays should 
pay more, in light of the stress this caused Mr W. A slightly larger payment would 
go some way to reflecting the damage to E as a result of that. I think a payment of 
£250 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr W, on behalf of E, didnt reply. Barclays wrote to make some further points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said that it agreed if it had asked the staff member involved right away, they might 
have remembered serving Mr W, and what happened. But Barclays said, by Mr Ws own 
admission, the payment was confusing the last time hed made it, and Mr W put the onus on 
Barclays. Barclays still thought Mr W shouldve checked the payment details elsewhere, and it said it wanted him to do this in future. Barclays also said that it thought £250 was 
excessive, but it said the complaint was very subjective. So it agreed to pay this money. 
I understand that Barclays has a set procedure for international transfers, which involves the 
customer confirming payment details. But my finding in this case was that this procedure 
hadnt been followed. Mr W did put the onus on Barclays to tell him what the right BIC 
number was. And Barclays accepted that responsibility. It gave Mr W advice on this, which 
turned out to be wrong. 
Mr W has explained the damage that the delayed payment caused to E. In the light of that, I 
dont consider that an award of £250 is excessive. Ill now make that award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay E £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman