DRN-3126250
The complaint
Ms S, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms S was approved for five loans of £400 and using information provided by Morses here is 
a brief loan table. Information from Morses indicates that the last two loans have been repaid 
although Ms S has said she still owes it money. 
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm Repayment 
amount 
each week
1 07/04/2017 15/12/2017 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00
2 15/12/2017 15/08/2018 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00
3 15/08/2018 27/04/2019 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00
4 28/11/2018 04/01/2020 £400.00 £328.00 52 £14.00
5 22/05/2019 18/01/2020 £400.00 £260.00 33 £20.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Morses should put things 
right for Ms S from loan 3. Morses disagreed and gave reasons why. The complaint 
remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator thought that this applied 
to Ms F from loan 3. 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint in part and have explained why below.
I asked for more information from Ms F but nothing has been sent to me and the reply date 
relating to that requested information has passed. 
I asked Morses to send me additional information which it has done and Ive factored it into 
my consideration of the complaint. 
Ms S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. And so I do not 
need to revisit those. They are relevant so far as the overall lending relationship is 
concerned. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 3 to 5 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Ms S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
In Ms Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 3. I say this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for over sixteen months; and  
Ms S loans remained at £400 for each and so although it did not show an increase 
the fact she had to keep coming back is a feature; and at this point Morses ought to 
have realised that Ms S was likely borrowing to meet an ongoing and increasing 
need. And this indicates her problems may have been worsening; and
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Ms S indebtedness was unsustainable; and
From loan 3 onwards Ms S was provided with a new loan a very short time after she 
settled her previous loan and loans 3, 4 and 5 overlapped at various dates; and
Ms S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Ms S had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.
I think that Ms S lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms S ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 3 to 5 and Morses should put 
things right.
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms S from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms S loans 3 to 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms S the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Ss borrowing for loans 3 to 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Ss credit file. If 
Morses has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Ms S complaint in part and Morses Club PLC should do as 
I have directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman