DRN-2773510
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ulster Bank Ltd blocked and closed his accounts.
What happened
Mr J had several accounts with Ulster Bank.
 
In February 2020, Ulster Bank reviewed Mr Js accounts. Whilst it completed its review it 
blocked Mr Js accounts. Following its review Ulster Bank decided to close Mr Js account 
and wrote to him giving him 14 days notice.
Mr J complained to the bank about his accounts being blocked and then closed. The bank 
said it had hadnt done anything wrong and had closed the accounts in line with the terms 
and conditions. Unhappy with this response, Mr J brought his complaint to our service where 
one of our investigators looked into things for him.
The investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong when it had closed Mr Js 
accounts. And explained that the bank wasnt obliged to provide its reasons for no longer 
wanting Mr J as a customer. Mr J disagreed. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation why it closed his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Ulster has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Ulster may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. And conduct 
various security and credit checks. Our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and 
then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt 
happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Ulster to block Mr Js accounts. Ulster has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr J inconvenience, I cant say Ulster 
treated him unfairly when it blocked his accounts. 
I understand Mr J wants Ulster to explain the reason it applied the block to his accounts. But 
Ulster doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no 
obligation to tell Mr J the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like 
to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr J this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Js accounts. As the investigator explained, its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless, theres a very good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate 
a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. In this case, Mr Js 
account were blocked from the end of February 2020; he was unable to gain access to the 
funds in it or use the account. Whilst it was formally closed in the middle of March 2020 (with 
14 days notice) I believe it was effectively closed in February 2020  since after that time 
Mr J couldnt use it. Having looked at the information the bank relied on to close Mr Js 
accounts, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the accounts as it has 
already done. 
I appreciate it wouldve been quite upsetting to Mr J discovering his bank accounts had been 
shut immediately, but Im aware Mr J had access to other bank accounts, so I think the 
impact would have been reduced. Ive also kept in mind that Mr Js balance in his accounts 
at the time was minimal and he hadnt used the accounts for some time. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient and upsetting for Mr J when Ulster blocked 
and closed his accounts. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont 
believe Ulster Bank acted unreasonably or treated Mr J unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman