DRN-2396935
The complaint
Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr O took out a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in one of the banks branches in 
2005, ten years after his mortgage started. The plan included life insurance, critical illness 
cover and PPI. This decision looks solely at the sale of the PPI. The PPI gave Mr O 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional, and Mr O had to agree to take it out. I cant 
know what was said in the meeting and Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork from Mr Os 
sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago  and it doesnt automatically mean it was 
mis-sold. Based on what we know about the banks sales process, I think its most likely 
Mr O completed a TMPP application form selecting which elements of the cover he wanted, 
after discussion with the bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the documents it 
used when selling TMPP at this time. And I cant find enough evidence to conclude that it 
didnt follow its standard sales process here.
In addition, Mr O took out the PPI several years after his mortgage had started so I think he 
would have known it was a separate, optional product.
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mr O had a choice about PPI  and he 
opted to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr O. And I think it seems to have been right for him based
on what Ive seen of his circumstances. Mr O told us he was entitled to 12 months full
pay from his employer if he was sick. But he hasnt been able to provide any supporting 
documentation. This is an uncommon and very generous benefit. And Mr O had been in his 
role for less than five years. I note his employer is still trading so it could have been possible 
to get confirmation of his contractual sick pay entitlement. I dont doubt that this is honest 
recollection, but he is trying to remember details from over 15 years ago. Without stronger 
evidence I cant fairly conclude that his sick pay was such that he had no need for PPI. And 
it would have paid out in addition to his sick pay for up to 12 months. Also, it gave him up to 
12 months redundancy cover. This would have allowed him to protect any lump sum 
payment from his employer giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time.
Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Mr O was sick or lost his job. It gave him 
protection beyond his other means. And this could have been important given the serious 
consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against his home.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr O all the information he needed before deciding to buy
PPI. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr O doesnt
appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont know when it first
made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I
dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed his mind about buying it.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because Halifax didnt tell
Mr O, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr O any commission
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman