DRN-4385256
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the length of time it took Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLA) to 
identify he wasnt eligible for a Protected Retirement Age (PRA) of 50 on his Flexible 
Retirement Plan. 
Mr V also says that as he was unable to access his pension monies from age 50, he has 
been unable to repay his loan and reduce his mortgage. Hed now like SLA to cover the 
interest payments that he says he wouldnt have incurred had SLA originally given him the 
right information back in 2017/18.
What happened
Mr V held an occupational pension scheme (OPS) that allowed him the option to retire at 
age 50 if he chose, five years earlier than normally allowed. On the advice of his 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), Mr V transferred his OPS to his SLA Flexible 
Retirement Plan in late 2017. Mr Vs IFA explained to SLA that the application was part of a 
block transfer, that meant, the objective was to protect his early retirement age of 50 by 
moving that feature to his existing Flexible Retirement Plan. Before the transfer took place, 
SLA were asked to confirm the PRA would be carried across to Mr Vs existing plan and on 
16 October 2017, SLA wrote back to Mr Vs IFA, confirming that the transfer of the protected 
age of 50 had been carried over to the existing Flexible Retirement Plan.
In March 2023, Mr V, who by this time was 51 years old, contacted SLA, asking to take 
some monies from his pension plan. The following month, SLA informed him his PRA was 
no longer valid and as such, theyd be unable to release any funds from his pension to him 
until he reached at least 55 years of age.
Shortly afterwards, Mr V decided to formally complain to SLA. In summary, he said that SLA 
had given him and his IFA incorrect information in 2017. He went on to say that SLA had 
specifically told them that the PRA wouldnt be lost by transferring his OPS funds to the 
existing Flexible Retirement Plan, when that clearly wasnt the case. In addition, Mr V was 
also upset after having had numerous discussions with SLA over the last several years as 
well as more recently about the PRA, only to have his expectations mismanaged.
After reviewing Mr Vs complaint, SLA concluded that they shouldnt have told him in 2017 
that the PRA would be retained by transferring his funds to his existing Flexible Retirement 
Plan. But, they said, it was his IFAs responsibility to undertake detailed due diligence and 
had he done, he would have identified that as his existing Flexible Retirement Plan had been 
in force for more than 12 months, the PRA benefit would be lost on transfer. SLA also said, 
in summary:
in recognition of the fact that they had spoken to Mr V on a number of occasions since 
the transfer in 2017, combined with the fact theyd failed to make him aware that hed be 
unable to take his pension as early as 50 years of age, SLA offered him £350 for the 
trouble theyd caused.
Mr V was unhappy with SLAs response so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concerns, principally that SLA gave inaccurate information 
about the PRA being moved to the existing Flexible Retirement Plan.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that whilst 
SLA had given Mr V inaccurate information, it was ultimately his responsibility to ensure that 
the scheme he was moving his OPS funds to, wouldnt result in the loss of the PRA. Our 
Investigator went on to say that he also didnt believe SLA should be held liable for the wider 
costs Mr V said hed incurred because of their mistake.
Mr V, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said that SLA 
should have warning flags that go up when a consumer tries to move OPS monies into an 
existing pension scheme with them thats more than 12 months old, so that this type of issue 
can be avoided. Mr V felt that SLA compounded the issue by failing to identify the problem, 
despite him having made several calls to their Helpline after the transfer had taken place. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr V had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Mr V then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important for me to note that I very much recognise Mr Vs strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read 
and considered very carefully. However, I hope that Mr V wont take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as he 
has outlined, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr V and SLA, in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. 
I can well understand Mr Vs disappointment at not being able to access his pension 
monies when he thought he would be able to. Hed made a number of plans for the funds 
such as clearing his car loan and reducing his mortgage debt and I can sense the strength 
of feeling Mr V now has on this issue from the various pieces of correspondence within the 
file. However, whilst Im upholding Mr Vs complaint, I wont be instructing SLA to take any 
further action beyond what theyve already done. I do appreciate Mr V will likely be 
disheartened by my decision, but Ill explain why.
I dont think theres any doubt here that SLA gave Mr V incorrect information when they 
stated in their letter to his IFA of 16 October 2017, that the transfer of the PRA had been 
carried over to the existing plan. However, whilst SLA have conceded that their letter to Mr 
Vs IFA was factually incorrect, theyre of the view that given Mr V was taking professional 
direction from his adviser, it was the IFAs ultimate responsibility to ensure that the scheme 
his funds were being transferred into wouldnt invalidate that benefit. Whilst I can also 
understand Mr Vs contention that his IFA had asked the right question to SLA, the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the block transfer terms and conditions are met falls with the 
consumer and their adviser.
Before proceeding with the transfer of his occupational pension scheme to his existing 
Flexible Retirement Plan, Mr V and his IFA were provided with the terms and conditions that 
had to be met for the PRA to successfully migrate across pensions. Ive looked at the Block 
Transfer Agreement terms and conditions form that Mr V signed on 4 October 2017  the 
document only runs to two pages and Ive inserted the section that I feel is most relevant to 
the complaint point in question: 
2.3 The protected pension ages(s) will transfer to the Receiving Scheme only if the 
requirements for a block transfer are met. These requirements (the the Block Transfer 
Requirements) which are set out in paragraph 22(6) of Schedule 36 to the Finance Act 
2004, are that:
o2.3.1 the transfer involves the transfer in a single transaction of all the sums and 
assets held for the purposes of, or representing accrued rights under, the 
Transferring Scheme which relate to the member and at least one other member 
of the Transferring Scheme, and
o2.3.2 either the member was not a member of the Receiving Scheme before the 
transfer or he has been a member of the Receiving Scheme for a period of no 
longer than 12 months ending with the date on which the transfer is made.
Whilst condition 2.3.1 was met, condition 2.3.2 wasnt because Mr Vs existing Flexible 
Retirement Plan had been in force for well over five years at that point, so the PRA benefit 
was lost on transfer.
It seems clear to me that Mr V and his IFA were provided with the terms that must be met for 
the PRA to be moved to another pension scheme before the switch went ahead. I also think 
that given those terms only ran to two pages, they werent particularly onerous or difficult to 
read and are set out in plain English. So, whilst SLA may have erroneously informed his IFA 
that the PRA would migrate across to the existing Flexible Retirement Plan, the terms and 
conditions which Mr V was provided with and signed to say he understood, prior to the 
transfer, take precedence over a miscommunication provided by SLA in the course of a 
transfer process. In addition, I also think its important to remember that SLA werent 
providing Mr V with any advice about the transaction, his IFA was, so it wasnt SLAs 
responsibility to ensure the appropriateness of the ceding scheme Mr V was moving his 
funds to. Allied to this, Mr Vs plan was part of a block transfer, where five other consumers 
were also switching their plans away.
Transferring an OPS with a PRA isnt mainstream financial advice. Given the nature of such 
a transaction, I would expect significant due diligence to be undertaken by the IFA and the 
consumer, both of whom must be satisfied that the move is both the right course of action, 
and more specifically, that the receiving scheme is able to house the pension monies without 
losing that valuable benefit. Having been provided with, and signed the terms that must be 
satisfied, I dont believe that the consumer, nor their adviser, can absolve themselves of 
responsibility in such circumstances, particularly as Mr V knew he had been a member of his 
existing Flexible Retirement Plan for more than 12 months. And, whilst I think its unfortunate 
that SLA gave incorrect information to Mr Vs IFA, ahead of that, SLA did provide information 
to them which was technically correct and could be relied upon. Importantly, SLA does state 
in its literature to Mr V that they hold no liability for ensuring that the plan holder meets the 
requirements needed in order to transfer their PRA. The agreement states that this is the 
responsibility of the policyholder or their IFA.As Ive already explained, the conditions that need to be met to continue benefiting from the 
PRA on a transfer are set out in the Finance Act 2004. These are rules set out in legislation 
and dont allow any for any degree of flexibility. So, as SLA wasnt acting as Mr Vs paid 
financial adviser in the process, it wasnt their responsibility to ensure he would be entitled to 
continue benefiting from the PRA once his OPS monies had been switched to the Flexible 
Retirement Plan.
Once the monies had moved from Mr Vs existing OPS to his existing Flexible Retirement 
Plan, he contacted SLA on a number of occasions in the years that followed to enquire about 
his pension. From what Ive seen, he spoke to SLA in December 2021, April 2022 and March 
2023. On the first two occasions, Mr V specifically asked about his PRA. SLA missed the 
opportunity to explain to Mr V that because the pension he transferred his OPS into had 
been open for more than 12 months, his PRA had been lost. However, Im not really 
surprised by this because on those occasions, Mr V only spoke to SLAs general helpline 
and I well suspect that the colleagues manning that line didnt have the full set of facts at 
their disposal to update him, nor would they have looked into his circumstances at any 
depth. It was only when he decided he wanted to extract some monies from his plan in 
March 2023, that SLA looked more closely at his affairs, then undertook their due diligence 
and established that his PRA had been lost.
I can well understand Mr Vs frustration at spending nearly an hour on the phone in March 
and April 2023, and then also having to wait a month with the expectation of drawing funds 
from his pension to only be told that he wouldnt be able to do so. Mr V has explained that he 
was planning to use some of the monies from his pension to partially repay his mortgage 
and pay off a car loan. He wants SLA to cover the interest costs on that lending that 
wouldve been met had he been able to access his pension funds and repay those debts - I 
dont agree though. Because Mr V transferred his OPS into his existing Flexible Retirement 
Plan, he lost his PRA benefit in 2018. Whilst it would have been beneficial had he found out 
sooner, I dont believe SLA should be held accountable for the costs that Mr V now says hes 
incurred because he cant access his pension. Thats because, as Ive already said earlier, I 
dont believe the loss of Mr Vs PRA is exclusively attributable to SLA.
SLA have offered Mr V £350 in recognition of the trouble theyve caused him by having to 
speak to them several times in March and April 2023 before eventually finding out he 
couldnt extract his benefits. In addition, the £350 takes account of the fact he was told his 
PRA had transferred onto his existing Flexible Retirement Plan in 2017 and when he 
telephoned in 2021 and 2022. I appreciate that Mr V feels that amount doesnt make up for 
his lost expectations and the incorrect information SLA gave his IFA, but having very 
carefully considered all the facts in this case, Im of the view that the £350 offered is fair for 
the trouble SLA have caused and is consistent with similar awards our service has made. 
My final decision
Standard Life Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle the 
complaint and I think that this offer is fair in all of the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Standard Life Assurance Limited should pay Mr V £350 if they have 
not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Simon FoxOmbudsman