DRN-3450670
The complaint
Ms G and Mr W complain about what happened when they asked Nationwide 
Building Society to increase their lending, and move their mortgage to a new 
property.
What happened
Ms G said she and Mr W had a mortgage with Nationwide, and in early 2021 they wanted to 
move house. They consulted a mortgage broker, who told them they wouldnt be able to get 
the additional lending they wanted with Nationwide, because Mr W is self-employed. Ms G 
said she thought this was because an arbitrary measure had been introduced during the 
coronavirus pandemic to reduce the borrowings for anyone who was self-employed. She 
thought this had changed by the time they complained, which further confused the matter.
Ms G said Mr Ws income wasnt affected by the pandemic, and he was working 
throughout. Ms G said Nationwide then told them it would lend them the amount they 
needed to buy the new house. Ms G said she spent a number of hours on the phone trying 
to confirm this, and was given conflicting information. But when a formal application was 
made, it was declined.
Ms G said she understood that if Mr W had been employed rather than self-employed, 
Nationwide would have lent them the amount they wanted. So she thought Nationwide 
was discriminating against Mr W for being self-employed. She said that as a result they 
had to move to another lender which was more expensive. And Nationwide also charged 
them an early repayment charge (ERC) of over £9,000 despite forcing them to leave.
Nationwide told Ms G that in the circumstance the ERC could be reduced, as the building 
society would treat their redemption as if theyd made the maximum overpayment each 
year. But then it said it wouldnt do this after all.
Ms G complained, and she said Nationwide paid £250 as an apology but would not 
lend them the money for the new house and would still charge the whole ERC.
Ms G said this took a lot of time, and caused significant stress and upset for the family. 
They didnt feel it was fair to charge them an ERC when they had no choice other than to 
seek a new lender. And she said Nationwide should honour the offer it made to reduce 
their ERC. She said theyd had to finance money to undertake work at the new property 
due to this additional charge from Nationwide which cost more than anticipated.
Nationwide accepted it had made mistakes in the information it gave Ms G and Mr W 
during the process of their application. Its agents had told Ms G the application had been 
accepted, when it hadnt been underwritten, and the provisional acceptance was only for a 
lower amount than they needed to buy their new house. That information was corrected 
later that day, but also on that day, another agent had given wrong information about the 
early repayment charge applicable on the mortgage, saying it could be reduced by £1,000.
Nationwide said it wouldnt do that, the full charge would be payable.
Nationwide didnt think that its staff had been unhelpful or condescending, but it said it 
would pay £250 for the incorrect information that Ms G was given. It didnt think that its 
underwriting was discriminatory.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Nationwide had 
applied its own lending criteria correctly, so he didnt think that there had been any 
discrimination against Mr W and Ms G.
Our investigator accepted that there was confusion caused by a decision in principle 
which indicated that Mr W and Ms G could borrow more money. But he said that Mr W 
and Ms G did need to make a full application, as their broker would have been aware.
Our investigator said he didnt think Nationwide had got its decision wrong, and he didnt 
think it had to pay back the ERC that Mr W and Ms G paid, because they were always 
looking to move house anyway. He thought that the payment Nationwide had made, of 
£250, did provide a fair resolution to this complaint.
Ms G replied to say she didnt think our investigator had considered the impact of the 
incorrect advice given to them on the ERC. So our investigator wrote again, to make clear 
that, although Nationwide had given Mr W and Ms G some wrong information about the 
ERC they were going to pay, what they were actually charged was right. Nationwide didnt 
have to honour the mistake it made.
Ms G disagreed. She felt that Nationwide should have been asked to reconsider, 
especially as it had made a mistake about the ERC to be charged.
Ms G said we were wrong to say that she and Mr W were always looking to move to a new 
house, irrespective of the actions of Nationwide. She said their ability to move was 
dependent on the ability to continue with a mortgage with Nationwide or terminate it, and 
Nationwide was the first port of call for remortgaging. Because of the issues with 
Nationwide, theyd had to change to another, more expensive, lender. But Ms G said they 
did need to move house, for family reasons.
Ms G said theyd taken Nationwides advice on the ERC which would be payable, and 
based their calculations for moving house on that. She said they were then prejudiced 
when a higher amount was charged.
Ms G said compensation of £250 didnt make up for the much higher ERC they were 
then charged. And she still thought theyd been discriminated against for being self-
employed.
Ms G and Mr W wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it 
was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Nationwide offered Mr W and Ms G a fixed interest rate on their existing lending in 
December 2019. That offer set out a number of terms which are relevant to this complaint -an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was redeemed before 31 December 2022.
porting, or moving the mortgage to a new property, would be allowed, but the offer 
said that If you need to borrow more money, you'll need to apply for one of 
Nationwides products available at that time, subject to the lending criteria.
there was a right to overpay by 10% per year, but the offer makes clear that An 
overpayment is any amount you pay on top of your monthly payment. This does 
not include any additional payment to clear arrears or to repay the loan in full.
Ms G said Nationwide discriminated against her and Mr W, because it treated them 
differently on the basis that some of the income they would use to repay the mortgage 
came from self-employment.
When Nationwide assesses how much its prepared to lend to customers, its entitled to 
consider a number of factors. That includes not just the income that customers earn, but 
also the source of that income. Nationwide doesnt have to treat every different situation in 
exactly the same way, and it does take individual circumstances into account. As part of 
that, I dont think it would be automatically unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide not to treat 
different sources of income exactly the same.
The terms of Mr W and Ms Gs mortgage, which Ive reproduced above, make clear that 
if they want to move house and to borrow more money, they will have to make a new 
application for lending, and that will be considered against Nationwides current lending 
criteria. Ms G was concerned that these criteria had changed since she first took out the 
mortgage, but Nationwide is allowed to review and amend the basis on which it will lend.
Nationwide was happy to increase Mr W and Ms Gs mortgage, but it said it wasnt able, 
within its current lending criteria, to lend Mr W and Ms G as much money as they wanted 
in order to buy their new home. I understand why this was disappointing for Mr W and Ms 
G, but again, I dont think thats unfair or unreasonable.
Ms G also said she was given incorrect information about the ERC payable on this 
mortgage. Nationwide accepts it suggested Ms G could use the right to make 
overpayments on this mortgage to reduce the ERC payable. I think its clear that this isnt 
permitted, from the provisions in the mortgage offer sent to Mr W and Ms G in December 
2019, which Ive copied out above. So Nationwide did give them some wrong advice.
This advice seems to have been given on 12 May. I understand this was corrected in a 
conversation held on 14 May, when Ms G complained about the advice Nationwide had 
given. This was well in advance of Mr W and Ms Gs home move. So, whilst I accept they 
would have been very disappointed to find that the ERC couldnt be reduced in the way 
they hoped, the timings do suggest it isnt likely that Mr W and Ms G continued to rely on 
this wrong advice when they did move.
I dont think Nationwide has to honour its mistaken offer to reduce the ERC for Mr W and Ms
G. And I can see they were properly notified of this charge, when they took up the offer of 
fixed rate lending. So I dont think Nationwide has to refund part of the ERC it has 
charged.
I can see Mr W and Ms G did get confused messages from Nationwide at some points, 
although its mistakes do seem to have been corrected quickly. Nationwide has paid Mr W 
and Ms G £250 to make up for that. Although I know Mr W and Ms G wont agree, I do 
think that is a reasonable amount to make up for the instances of poor service that I have 
seen. So I think that does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I understand 
that Mr W and Ms G will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman