DRN-4286897
The complaint
Mr H complains about Arc Legal Assistance Limited (Arc) for failing to answer his calls 
when he needed to use his home emergency cover. He wants Arc to increase its offer of 
compensation to reflect his distress. 
What happened
Mr H insured his home and also held additional home emergency cover. His home 
emergency cover was administered by Arc. 
In March 2023, Mr H suffered a burglary. Intruders broke into his home while he and others 
were there and took car and house keys, along with other items. 
Mr H called out the police and tried to call Arc, to get help in securing his home and 
changing the property locks. He called Arc twice, at around 2.30 am and 3.00 am. 
Neither call was answered, despite ringing for a long period. 
Mr H had to stay up to ensure his home was secure, and it appears that the intruders tried to 
return, before he scared them away. 
The following day, Mr H contacted his home insurer, and they were able to provide a 
contractor to secure his home. 
Mr H contacted Arc and submitted a complaint. The agent he spoke with explained that the 
business had experienced technical difficulties the previous night and that had meant that 
calls were not answered. 
Arc responded to Mr Hs complaint. It upheld his complaint and apologised. It offered him 
£50 compensation. 
Mr H was not happy and contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that Arc do anything further. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I extend my sympathies to Mr H. The burglary he experienced sounds extremely 
distressing, and I can understand how he would have felt with his home being left insecure 
after the break in. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues view and I do not ask Arc to do anything further. 
Arc has accepted, and I agree, that it failed to provide a proper service when it did not 
answer his calls in the early hours of the morning after the burglary. It has explained that it 
experienced a technical issue and has apologised and offered compensation. 
I appreciate that Mr H does not think that the compensation offered is sufficient to reflect the 
upset he experienced and I agree that it does not, but I consider that the upset he felt was 
primarily caused by the burglary, rather than by Arcs failure to answer his two calls. I 
understand that this failure will have exacerbated his upset, but he was able to get his other 
insurer to secure his home the following day. 
I have considered what Arc would have been able to do if it had not failed to answer the calls 
and, it ought to have made a claim to Mr Hs home emergency insurer which ought to have 
secured Mr Hs home. 
In my view, Arcs failure meant that Mr H experienced a delay in getting his home secured, 
but fortunately this was less than a day. 
Mr H has explained that he feels that Arc ought to pay him around £500 compensation. I 
understand his view but I do not agree, and the sum that Arc has offered is in line with our 
approach to compensation. 
I appreciate that Mr H will remain unhappy, but I think that Arc has acted reasonably in its 
actions and offer since its failure, and I do not ask it to do anything further. I hope that Mr H 
and his family have recovered well from their experience in the burglary. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and I do not ask Arc Legal 
Assistance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman