DRN-2064166
The complaint
Mr S complains about NewDay Ltd, trading as Opuscard, and the interest theyve applied to
his credit card account.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with NewDay. This account charged interest on the balance
if it wasnt paid off in full each month. In early 2019, Mr S had been charged interest after
mis-calculating the amount he needed to pay after the minimum payment had been taken.
But NewDay agreed to write this off as a good will gesture.
In May 2019, Mr S received his monthly statement. His monthly minimum payment was due
to be taken by direct debit on 6 June. Mr S made several payments to his account before
and on this date, leaving an outstanding balance he expected to be taken by the minimum
payment. But the direct debit wasnt taken, meaning he was charged interest on the full
balance stated on the monthly statement.
Mr S wasnt happy with this, so he raised a complaint. He didnt think it was fair for NewDay
to charge him interest as in his mind hed cleared the full balance when the minimum
payment amount was included. So, he wanted the interest that was charge written off.
NewDay responded and uphold his complaint in part. They thought it was made clear to Mr
S how his account should be managed and when interest was charged. They explained that
as Mr S had made a payment of £2,000 amount a week before the monthly minimum
payment was due, the direct debit hadnt been taken. They said this was a standard
business process so didnt think theyd done anything wrong. As Mr Ss full balance amount
was paid, they felt theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions by charging the
interest. So, they didnt think the interest should be waived.
But they didnt think their advisor acted fairly when Mr S called them to query why hed been
charged interest. So, they offered Mr H £50 to recognise their advisors failure to give a clear
and accurate explanation. Mr S wasnt happy with this and didnt think it was fair for NewDay
not to take the direct debit and charge him interest. So, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought NewDay had
made it clear to Mr S how his account worked and when interest would be charged. So, she
didnt think it would be fair to say theyd done anything wrong by charging interest as Mr S
had paid more than his monthly minimum amount before it was due. She agreed that
NewDay couldve handled Mr Ss call better and answered his question in more detail but
thought the £50 NewDay offered was a fair one to recognise the inconvenience this caused.
So, she didnt think NewDay needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for him to be charged over £200 interest as a
result of NewDay failing to take a minimum payment of just over £50, which hed expected
them to take. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I used my provisional decision on 16 July 2020, where I explained by intention to uphold the 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold the
complaint and Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr S didnt clear the full balance that was stated on his monthly
statement in May 2019. And because of this, I agree that NewDay acted in line with their
terms and conditions by charging him interest on the total balance amount. But, as well as
ensuring NewDay acted in line with their terms and conditions, I also need to consider
whether by doing so, they acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S. And in this situation, I
dont think they have.
Ive seen the payments Mr S made up to and on 6 June. These payments totalled £5,010.19,
including a £2,000 payment on 30 May, which left an outstanding amount of £50.61. This is
same amount Mr S expected to be taken by direct debit on that day. Had the direct debit
been taken, Mr S wouldve cleared the entire balance of £5,060.80 and so he wouldnt have
incurred any interest charges. So, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr S thought the
direct debit would be taken, whether or not he made payments before the minimum payment
due date and had every intention of clearing the balance in full.
NewDay have explained its their business process not to take a direct debit if an amount
totalling it or greater is paid before its due. And Im not able to comment on processes
NewDay put in place. But I can decide on whether this process was made reasonably clear
to Mr S. And NewDay have explained they feel they made Mr S aware in conversation held
earlier in the year how the account works and when interest is charged.
But Ive looked at this in more detail. On both occasions, Mr S mis-calculated the amounts
he needed to pay to clear the full balance. And the additional payments he made were paid
on the same day the monthly minimum amount was due, meaning the direct debits were
taken. So, I dont think these were the same as the situation Mr S found himself in in June. I
do think NewDay made Mr S aware he needed to clear the full balance and ensure his
calculations were correct. And he did do this in June.
Ive seen no evidence in the accounts terms and conditions or on Mr Ss monthly statements
that explain a direct debit wont be taken if a payment is made well in advance of the monthly
minimum payment due date. And Im aware Mr S set up a direct debit to take the minimum
amount needed each monthly to ensure that payment wasnt missed which would impact his
credit rating and incur account charges. So, without being made aware otherwise, I think it
was reasonable for Mr S to assume the direct debit would be taken. I think its most likely
that had Mr S been aware it wouldnt be taken, hed have made the payment of £50.61 to
ensure no interest charged.
Ive also listened to the call Mr S held with New Day when he questioned the interest hed
been charged, and I agree it wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. Im aware NewDay have
acknowledged this and offered Mr S £50 to recognise this. I think thats a fair offer to
recognise the service he received on that call.
Because of this, I dont think NewDay have acted fairly by charging Mr S the interest
payment of £201.42 as I dont think Mr S was made reasonably aware the direct debit
wouldnt be taken. So, I think NewDay should refund Mr S this amount. I also think NewDay
should pay Mr S £100 to recognise the frustration and upset this situation has caused Mr S.
Ive also listened to the call Mr S held with NewDay when he questioned the interest hed
been charged, and I agree it wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. Im aware NewDay haveacknowledged this and offered Mr S £50 to recognise this. I think thats a fair offer to
recognise the service he received on that call and I dont think they need to do anything
further in relation to this.
Responses
Mr S acknowledged the provisional decision and provided no further comments. NewDay 
also acknowledged the provisional decision and had no further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my conclusions. Neither NewDay or Mr S have 
provided further comments that I need to address or that change my mind. So, my decision 
remains that NewDay acted unreasonably. To recognise this, NewDay should refund Mr S 
the interest amount he paid of £201.42. They should also pay Mr S an additional £100 to 
recognise the upset this situation has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint about NewDay Ltd, trading as 
Opuscard, and I direct them to take the following actions:
Refund Mr S the interest amount of £201.42
Pay Mr S £100 to recognise the upset hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman