DRN-3135257
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled 
their claim following an escape of water at their home.
Mr and Mrs T have been represented by a third party at some points during this claim and 
complaint. However for ease of reading all references to Mr and Mrs T include the actions of 
their representative.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had home insurance with RSA. In July 2017 there was a leak at their home 
that caused extensive damage to the property. They made a claim on the insurance.
The claim was accepted and Mr and Mrs T and their family moved into alternative 
accommodation while drying and repairs were carried out. Due to the extent of the damage 
this took a long time, and it wasnt until December 2020 that they moved back into the 
property. 
During the claim Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with how some elements were dealt with, and 
they raised a complaint. The concerns they raised were as follows:
They werent happy that their kitchen units were being reinstalled when they felt they 
should be replaced.
They felt the kitchen appliances should be inspected by the manufacturer rather than 
an independent company. And they thought these should be replaced.
While they were out of their home the electricity to the property was permanently 
turned off. This led to an aquarium in an unaffected area of the house being 
damaged, which they think should be covered by RSA.
They feel there were excessive delays on the claim.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was satisfied by the conclusions of the 
independent experts that assessed the kitchen units and appliances. However if there were 
problems once the units were re-installed and the appliances were cleaned it would consider 
this again. It said the damage to the aquarium was a maintenance issue and not something 
covered under the policy. And it didnt agree there had been any unnecessary delays to the 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought RSA had acted fairly 
in its assessment of the kitchen units and appliances. And he didnt think the damage to the 
aquarium was covered under the policy. He also couldnt identify any unnecessary delays 
caused by RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From reviewing the information, I can see this has been a very distressing time for Mr T and 
his family. Due to the extent of the damage, they have been displaced from their home for 
over three years while repairs were ongoing. I dont doubt that this would have impacted the 
whole family in many ways. However its my role to consider the actions of RSA, rather than 
the impact of the leak itself. I need to consider if RSA has done anything wrong, and if I find 
it has if it has done enough to put things right.
Having done so, I cant find that RSA has done anything wrong here. Ill explain in more 
detail below.
Kitchen units
RSA removed the kitchen units to ensure that they werent damaged while the house was 
being repaired. And it has said its satisfied they can be re-installed rather than replaced. 
This was based on the assessment of an independent expert. RSA has since said if the units 
appear damaged once they are reinstalled then it will consider replacement. I dont find this 
to be unreasonable. It hasnt ruled out replacing the units, however as there is no visible 
damage it will first try to re-install them. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Kitchen appliances
Mr and Mrs T are concerned about their kitchen appliances being inspected and restored by 
anyone other than an engineer from the manufacturer. 
Id expect RSA to carry out suitable checks on the appliances, to ensure they are in working 
order. And it has appointed an independent expert to do so. The policy doesnt oblige RSA 
to limit these checks to be carried out by the manufacturer of the appliances. So I dont think 
it has acted unreasonably here. Further, it has said a representative from the manufacturer 
can be present while these are carried out. And I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
Aquarium
Mr and Mrs Ts aquarium has been damaged beyond repair. It seems the damage has been 
caused because the electricity was turned off for a prolonged period. When there is a 
substantial leak, it is usual that the electricity at the property will be turned off to ensure 
safety. So RSA acted responsibly by turning off the electricity.  
The aquarium was in a room of the house that was unaffected by the leak, so while RSA 
were aware of its existence, its reasonable that this room wasnt inspected by its 
contractors. And as it was a specialist item, its also reasonable that RSA would be unaware 
of what was required for its maintenance. 
But regardless, the policy covers Mr and Mrs T for repairing damage following an insured 
peril. And wed expect it to put them back in the position they would have been in before the 
leak. But this doesnt include general maintenance of the property, this would remain the 
responsibility of Mr and Mrs T. As the tank has deteriorated due to a lack of maintenance, its 
reasonable that this doesnt fall under the policy cover. I therefore dont find that RSA have 
acted unreasonably by declining this part of Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
Delays
This claim has gone on for a number of years, which has caused Mr and Mrs T significant distress and inconvenience. However from looking at the extensive reports and 
correspondence from RSA Ive not found that it caused any unnecessary delays. Instead I 
find that the duration of the claim was due to the extent of the damage and required repairs. 
So while I can see this will have been a really difficult period for Mr and Mrs T, I dont think 
this is due to the actions of RSA, but instead due to the nature of the incident. So I wont ask 
RSA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman