DRN-3416412
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by an appointed representative of PrisWM Limited to 
transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. The BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. Mr S says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and has caused a financial loss.
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr S.
PrisWM Limited is responsible for answering the complaint on behalf of its appointed 
representatives. So, to keep things simple, Ill largely just refer to PrisWM in my decision. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr S approached PrisWM around June 2016 to discuss his BSPS pension. His initial enquiry 
recapped the situation with the BSPS and said In light of this I want to take control of my 
finances, pay off my mortgage now and secure a future for myself and my wife that is not 
built on ifs and buts. Can you help?
PrisWM met with Mr and Mrs S a few days later on 21 June 2016. The meeting notes it 
recorded say that Mr S had worked for his employer and in other heavy industry all of his life. 
And he felt this was likely to impact his long-term health and could mean he had a lower-
than-average life expectancy. He was unhappy with, and had significant concerns about, the 
BSPS, including the prospect of the pension moving into the PPF. And he wanted to take 
tax-free cash (TFC) immediately to clear the remainder of his mortgage and give he and 
Mrs S the security of knowing their house was paid for in full. The meeting notes say that 
PrisWMs fee structure was discussed  there was a set fee to carry out analysis with a 
further fee if PrisWM recommended a transfer. And a fact-find document was given to 
Mr and Mrs S to complete if they decided to go ahead.
Ive seen a copy of an email sent to PrisWM the next day in which Mr and Mrs S asked, in 
the event the analysis suggested a transfer wasnt in their interests, whether PrisWM would 
refuse to help or would advise them not to transfer but leave the decision to them. To which 
PrisWM responded saying that while the analysis was important, its advice would take into 
account Mr and Mrs S circumstances as a whole as well as their preferences and 
objectives.
PrisWM has provided a copy of the fact-find, completed and signed by Mr and Mrs S to 
confirm it was accurate, outlining their circumstances and objectives. It noted that Mr S was 
56, married and employed full time. He and Mrs S owned their own home with an 
outstanding mortgage of approximately £63,000 and monthly repayments of £744. It was 
recorded that they had outstanding loans with a balance of approximately £3,000 and credit 
cards with an outstanding balance of roughly £16,000. Mr and Mrs S indicated they were 
making combined repayments of £800 per month towards these other debts. But their 
income was sufficient to meet their outgoings.
The fact-find recorded that they were both in good health and that their expected retirement 
ages were undecided. But there was a section for them to set out their circumstances and 
goals in their own words in which it was again stated that, due to Mr S employment history, 
he was likely to have a below average life expectancy and so he wanted to retire before 65. 
They said the original intention was for Mr S to retire and take tax-free cash and an income 
from the BSPS at age 60. But due to the ongoing issues with the BSPS he said he wasnt 
now able to take his benefits from the scheme until age 65. He was extremely concerned 
about the status of the BSPS and its future prospects. It was noted that Mrs S also had a DB 
scheme pension that provided guarantees. Mr S again said that paying all of their mortgage 
off now would greatly increase their quality of life and allow them to increase their savings. 
And accessing the pension now would allow Mr and Mrs S to be debt free at retirement, 
whenever they chose that to be.
There was a further section where Mr S answered questions about his attitude to risk. Based 
on these answers PrisWM recorded that Mr S had a very low willingness to take risk 
(attitude to risk) or a two on a scale of one to ten. But PrisWM has said that, after discussion 
with Mr and Mrs S, it was agreed that three out of ten or a cautious attitude to risk more 
reflected their opinions.
A transfer value quotation was obtained from the BSPS trustees in July 2016. This said 
Mr S benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £288,071.93.
PrisWM then arranged for a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report to be carried out. The 
TVAS included calculations of critical yields  the growth rates required of a new pension to 
allow Mr S to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was due under his DB scheme. The 
amount required to purchase equivalent benefits was also provided in monetary terms. 
The TVAS said that if Mr S retired at age 57 (within one year) and didnt take TFC it was 
estimated it would cost approximately £650,145 to purchase equivalent benefits to those he 
was due under the BSPS. If he retired at 65 taking no TFC, itd cost approximately £942,581 
to purchase equivalent benefits to those the BSPS was scheduled to provide. Or, in other 
words, his pension would have to grow by 16.6% per year (the critical yield) between 
transferring and retiring to match his existing benefits.
Similar calculations were provided for how much a personal pension would need to increase 
by to match the benefits Mr S would be entitled to if his pension moved to the PPF. To 
purchase equivalent benefits at age 57, without taking TFC, it was estimated hed need a 
fund value of £591,803. And to purchase equivalent benefits to the PPF at age 65, without 
taking TFC, hed need a fund of £610,134, or to achieve a critical yield of 11% per year.
PrisWMs notes indicate a follow up meeting then took place in August 2016 where this was 
discussed and that it indicated a transfer didnt make sense financially. But it says Mr and 
Mrs S said they still didnt trust the BSPS and what was going on and wanted control of their 
pension to avoid uncertainty, even if this meant accepting less. The notes also state the 
concerns about Mr S life expectancy were reiterated, and Mr and Mrs S believed they were 
unlikely to get value for money in the existing scheme because of this. It was also noted that 
they were concerned the pension would also die with them and not give the option of leaving 
a benefit to their children. The notes say it was agreed that a transfer would proceed, and 
that Mr and Mrs S would provide a declaration confirming they understood the risks.On 7 September 2016, PrisWM sent Mr S a written summary of its recommendations  
advising him to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension. The suitability report 
recapped the growth that would be required to match the benefits of the BSPS and the PPF 
and said this was unlikely to be achievable, particularly based on Mr S attitude to risk. It also 
said that PrisWMs analysis suggested that the CETV being offered by the trustees of the 
BSPS was low. But Mr and Mrs S were aware of this and had indicated their other objectives 
outweighed this  in particular to take control of the pension and release 25% of the value as 
TFC to clear their mortgage.
So, a transfer was recommended as it allowed access to sufficient TFC to clear the 
mortgage and some of Mr and Mrs S other debts, gave Mr S control over the pension and 
flexibility in respect of how an income was eventually drawn. It was also stated that the 
remaining fund within the personal pension provided a higher level of death benefits than 
provided by the DB scheme  again addressing one of Mr S concerns. A pension provider, 
and fund, were also recommended, which PrisWM said it felt best met Mr S needs and 
attitude to risk. And PrisWM would also provide ongoing servicing of the pension, at a cost.
The covering letter that accompanied the suitability report requested that Mr S provide the 
statement in his own words about his reason for transferring, which hed agreed to send 
during the earlier meeting.
Ive seen a copy of a pension transfer statement signed by Mr and Mrs S and dated as 
having been received by PrisWM on 15 September 2016. This confirmed information that 
had already been well documented. It said Mr S had looked to retire at age 55 and been 
turned down, he didnt expect to be in a position to continue working until age 65, but 
changes had been made to the BSPS which meant he wouldnt be able to draw the benefits 
he wanted too before then. It also said he was concerned about what had happened to that 
point with the BSPS and that further changes could be forced on members. And mentioned 
hed made contributions in good faith and wanted to enjoy them.
It said that he was aware the transfer value was lower than he thought it should be but he 
still felt taking charge of his own future was better than leaving the money in the scheme. 
And confirmed he would be looking to take the maximum available TFC to pay off his 
mortgage and some other debts and continue to work until age 60, at which time hed take 
an income. The statement also talked about being concerned the BSPS wouldnt provide for 
Mr S children and that Mrs S had other pension arrangements. And in summary said theyd 
decided it was in their best interests to act now.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation in October 2016, with 
Mr S drawing 25% of the fund as TFC. PrisWM then became servicing agent for the new 
personal pension.
In June 2017, PrisWM raised concerns, on behalf of Mr and Mrs S, with the trustees of the 
BSPS. They felt that the CETV theyd been provided was unfairly low and said that scheme 
members who were looking into transferring at that time were now being quoted much 
greater transfer values for their benefits. The trustees said that the transfer value had been 
calculated correctly when it was requested.
PrisWM continued to provide ongoing servicing in respect of Mr S pension for the next 
several years. And, when Mr S retired in 2019, and began to draw an income from the 
personal pension, PrisWM gave advice, including in relation to what level of income he 
planned to take and provided forecasts to assist with that decision.
Mr S complained, via his representative, in September 2020 to PrisWM. He said he thought 
the advice hed been given to transfer his pension benefits was unsuitable as the benefits he would receive through the private pension were unlikely to match those he couldve obtained 
by moving to the BSPS2.  
PrisWM didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said, when Mr S approached it, he had a clear 
intention to transfer. It felt transferring had been suitable, based on the circumstances and 
objectives he had explained and recapped consistently at the time. And it noted that taking 
benefits under the DB scheme at that time wouldnt have achieved these aims. PrisWM also 
said Mr S was aware of the value of the guaranteed benefits available through his DB 
scheme and those that the PPF would provide. And hed understood the risks but had 
wanted to proceed. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. PrisWM noted that details of the BSPS2 were not 
released until mid-2017, so felt the argument made by Mr S representative in respect of this 
was not applicable here. 
An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended PrisWM pay compensation and 
£200 for the distress caused. In summary, he said he didnt think PrisWM had done enough 
to address any misunderstanding Mr S had at the time of the advice about his options. And 
he didnt think the goals discussed justified the transfer or Mr S accepting what in all 
likelihood would be significantly lower retirement benefits. So, he didnt think Mr S shouldve 
been advised to transfer and believed he would ultimately have moved his benefits to the 
PPF had correct advice been given.
PrisWM disagreed. It said when it advised Mr S he and Mrs S were under a great deal of 
stress because of their position. In addition to the uncertainty and worry regarding the BSPS, 
Mr S was also worried he could lose his job. Given their outstanding debts, including the 
mortgage, this was having a heavy impact on them. The climate at the time of the advice 
was one of significant uncertainty and there was very little optimism amongst Mr S 
colleagues. And given Mr S concerns about his long-term health, he wanted a solution. 
PrisWM reiterated that Mr S wanted to clear his mortgage for the peace of mind that would 
bring. It said this wasnt irrational and, as advisers, its role was to assist clients in meeting 
their objectives. It believed Mr S could not have met his objectives by remaining in the BSPS 
or moving to the PPF and it felt the advice it provided was suitable. It also said it felt the 
Investigators opinion was based on a significant degree of hindsight. And, if it had not 
advised Mr and Mrs S to transfer, PrisWM felt they wouldve still sought to do so on an 
insistent client basis.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. He said while he didnt doubt Mr S 
had concerns and mightve thought that a transfer would achieve things he was interested in, 
it was PrisWMs role to advise him on what was in his best interests. And he remained of the 
opinion that transferring was not. He also didnt agree that he felt Mr S would always have 
insisted on transferring. He said he felt with sufficient explanation and reassurance, Mr S 
wouldve accepted the advice not to transfer. As agreement could not be reached though, 
the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PrisWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PrisWM 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr S best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the BSPS benefits, without taking 
TFC, at age 65 was 16.6%. And to match the benefits the PPF wouldve given on the same 
basis was 11%. This compares with the discount rate of 3.5% per year for 8 years to 
retirement, as would be the case if Mr S retired at 65. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
PrisWM has made the point that Mr S did not intend to retire at 65 and was looking to retire 
sooner. And it said that Mr S was always looking to take TFC. So, on that basis the 
comparisons to what wouldve happened at age 65 arent particularly useful in this case. But 
the regulator requires such comparisons to be made and provided. And these were the only 
critical yields calculated in the TVAS. 
I can see that retiring at age 60 was talked about in the documents that have been provided. 
And it does appear that retiring early was something Mr S was considering, as was taking 
TFC. The TVAS report didnt though include a calculation of the critical yield that would be required for retiring at age 60 or details of the pension or amount of TFC Mr S could expect 
to be able to draw at that age under either arrangement. There isnt really an explanation 
why. And I think this wouldve been appropriate given this was discussed. 
There was also no calculation of the various critical yields at any retirement age in the event 
TFC was taken. The correspondence suggests this was because the trustees of the BSPS 
were not forthcoming with information that PrisWM asked for, in order to assist with those 
calculations. And it considered that this could not be calculated accurately and was why it 
felt it wasnt therefore appropriate to include. But as this wasnt included, and I think critical 
yield figures are still a useful consideration, I have to look at the figures that were included.
I've taken the listed critical yields and relevant discount rate into account, along with the 
composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr S cautious attitude to risk and also the term 
to retirement. There would be little point in Mr S giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, given the figures Ive referenced I think Mr S was always likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme 
moved to the PPF.
While comparisons werent included to age 60, the TVAS reports did estimate that, in order 
to purchase equivalent benefits to those Mr S would be due at age 57 under the BSPS, if he 
didnt take TFC, hed need a fund worth in excess of £650,000. And to purchase equivalent 
benefits to those the PPF would provide at age 57, a fund of in excess of £590,000 would be 
required. Critical yield figures were not calculated but given the CETV was just over 
£288,000, achieving this level of growth within a year seems practically impossible  even 
though the amounts needed were likely to be lower if taking TFC. And I think this further 
reinforces that Mr S was unlikely to be better off, in terms of overall pension benefits, as a 
result of transferring.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr S best interests.
But from what I can see PrisWM didnt argue that it was. The suitability report acknowledged 
that the required returns were likely unachievable, particularly given Mr S attitude to risk. 
And that the CETV seemed to be particularly low. But PrisWM said there were other issues 
that were of concern to Mr S, which it felt meant a transfer was still suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility 
PrisWM says Mr S wanted access to TFC straight away to pay off his mortgage for peace of 
mind. But didnt want to begin drawing an income until he retired and wanted to be able to 
control what level of income he took. And he wanted to retire early, because of health 
concerns. And this is reflected in the correspondence Ive seen.
Mr S initial enquiry to PrisWM said I want to take control of my finances, pay off my 
mortgage now and secure a future for myself and my wife that is not built on ifs and buts. 
This was noted, before hed spoken to PrisWM. 
The fact find, completed and signed by Mr and Mrs S a couple of weeks after their initial 
enquiry, said, in the section in their own words, that it was always Mr S intention to retire 
early and take a lump sum to repay the mortgage. And this repeated that he still wanted 
access to a lump sum now for that purpose but said Mr S didnt want an income at that time 
because of the tax hed be liable for. It did though acknowledge he didnt intend to work until 
the normal scheme retirement age of 65.And the statement they completed after theyd received the suitability report repeated that 
taking a sum to pay of their mortgage and other debts immediately, then taking an income 
on retirement, which was likely to be around age 60, was their intention.
The meeting notes recorded by PrisWM also reflected that this was what Mr S intended to 
do. 
Mr S therefore was consistent throughout the advice process about what his intentions and 
aims were. So, Im satisfied that PrisWM is correct when it says this was something Mr S 
wanted.
But under the BSPS and the PPF, Mr S was able to take his benefits early  and take TFC. 
These wouldve likely been subject to actuarial reductions when compared to the benefits 
available at age 65. Although it doesnt appear that PrisWM researched whether retiring on 
the basis of ill health would limit those reductions. But regardless, Mr S didnt need to 
transfer in order to access his benefits early.
PrisWM has said in response to the Investigators opinion that wanting TFC to clear the 
mortgage went further than being just an objective. It says when Mr and Mrs S contacted it 
they were very distressed about their situation. They had a lot of debt  the mortgage and 
other lending  and Mr S was not just worried about losses to his pension but also his job 
security due to what was going on with his employer. It says the prospect of this coupled 
with the indebtedness meant they were losing sleep and really needed some kind of 
solution. 
The information from the point of sale though doesnt necessarily reflect this. The meeting 
notes were clear that Mr S was unhappy with the BSPS for a number of reasons. And that 
they really wanted to take TFC to clear their mortgage. The section Mr and Mrs S 
completed in the fact find said that this is what they wanted and that they felt paying off the 
mortgage would improve their quality of life. And the statement they gave after the suitability 
report was issued reiterates this was their plan and that they worried about the BSPS. But 
none of it goes as far as to support the urgency that PrisWM is now saying there was. 
The income and expenditure information noted does indicate that payments towards the 
mortgage and other debts made up the significant majority of Mr and Mrs S expenditure. But 
it doesnt suggest that this was unaffordable. PrisWM has said that in the years since 
clearing the mortgage, Mr and Mrs S have told them theyd taken on additional debt. But I 
dont think that necessarily means the payments at the time were unaffordable and is more 
likely because of their changed situation once the mortgage was repaid.
PrisWM has also said that the notes cannot be expected to reflect everything that was 
discussed in such detailed meetings as those that took place. But I think the urgency and 
impact on Mr and Mrs S mental state that PrisWM says the situation was having is an 
important piece of information. And if it informed the advice to the extent that PrisWM now 
argues, Id have expected it to be recorded somewhere or for Mr and Mrs S to have made 
such comments in their own written explanations of why they were seeking advice.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs S might have thought about, and even been concerned by, 
how they might pay back their outstanding debts if their situations changed. And I think being 
mortgage free probably appealed to Mr and Mrs S. I think it, and the reassurance that would 
bring, would appeal to most customers. And, as Ive said, Im satisfied that they entered into 
discussion with PrisWM with this as a goal. But I dont think it was necessarily a genuine 
need. And contrary to what PrisWM said in response to the Investigators opinion, I dont 
agree it was PrisWMs role as the adviser to help Mr and Mrs S meet their objectives. While 
understanding objectives is important, these must be separated from what a customer needs. And it was PrisWMs role to provide unbiased and independent advice on what was 
in Mr S best interests. And the primary purpose of a pension is to provide income in 
retirement. 
Again, Mr S was also able, because of his age at the time, to take retirement benefits early 
under the BSPS  even straight away. Ive seen an early retirement quote saying he 
couldve taken a starting annual pension of £12,376.08 or TFC of £57,969 and a reduced 
starting pension of £8,695.44 at the time of the advice. Both of the annual pensions wouldve 
increased while in payment. 
That TFC amount would not have cleared Mr S mortgage in full. But couldve reduced the 
outstanding balance to approximately £5,000, if taken straight away. But there was no 
indication it needed to be taken straight away  because Mr S intended to continue working 
for several years and the mortgage appears to have been affordable. So, if he had waited, 
he couldve continued to make payments to the mortgage to reduce its balance in the 
meantime. And the amount of TFC hed have been entitled to wouldve likely increased in 
that time too as the actuarial reduction wouldve been reduced by waiting a couple of years 
and revaluations of the benefit value wouldve taken place. Meaning when he did retire early, 
I think Mr S would have had enough TFC to then clear the mortgage in full. This wouldve 
meant potentially paying more interest over the course of the mortgage. But the information 
on file suggests there was an early repayment charge for clearing the mortgage anyway  
which wouldve likely been reduced somewhat by waiting, offsetting at least some of the 
interest cost. And again, by transferring Mr S was always likely to receive lower retirement 
benefits. And I cant see that a meaningful comparison between these reductions and the 
interest costs was calculated for Mr S to consider.
The TFC that wouldve been available through the PPF is unclear. PrisWM didnt include any 
calculations of how the TFC available through the BSPS or the PPF would compare or what 
these amounts were likely to be. Again, PrisWM indicated this was because information was 
not forthcoming from the trustees. But, without this information, Mr S wasnt really in an 
informed position. And under COBS 9.2.6, PrisWM should not have made a 
recommendation to Mr S if it didnt have the necessary information to assess suitability. So 
arguably, PrisWM ought not to have proceeded without this information as I think it was 
crucial to assessing the suitability of transferring out of the DB scheme.
Generally, benefits under the PPF are reduced by 10% compared to those available through 
the DB scheme. But the PPF does tend to have more generous early retirement factors. And 
the benefits wouldve continued to escalate, albeit at a lower rate than the BSPS, if 
transferred to the PPF. So, it seems likely that the TFC Mr S wouldve been able to take 
under the PPF within a couple of years of this advice wouldve been at worst roughly 
equivalent of that in the early retirement quote Ive mentioned. Which would likely have been 
enough to clear his mortgage, if he had retired early, given the balance wouldve continued 
to be reduced while he continued working.
I know that clearing his mortgage immediately might have appealed to Mr S. And not 
transferring wouldve meant not doing so. But while different to what Mr S mightve thought 
he wanted, he doesnt appear to have needed to pay the mortgage off at the time. And it 
does appear that Mr S was always likely to be in a position where his mortgage could be 
cleared by the TFC accessible through the DB scheme benefits. And he wouldve then 
received a guaranteed escalating pension.
So, while I know having a mortgage to think about while approaching retirement was likely 
concerning, I dont think transferring was the only way that Mr S could pay this off. And given 
he was likely to achieve materially lower retirement benefits through transferring,  I dont 
think it was in his best interests to transfer to address this mortgage balance when he did.On the point of wanting flexibility in respect of future income, again Im satisfied this was 
something that Mr S expressed an interest in. But I dont think there was enough information 
recorded at the time around this.
The fact-find didnt include any information about what Mr and Mrs S expected their 
retirement income needs to be. And the suitability report didnt cover this either  it just said 
that Mr S wanted flexibility in retirement. Without knowing his income needs, it couldnt have 
been established whether a flexible income would provide what Mr S required in retirement, 
or that it was more appropriate than the guaranteed escalating income he was due under the 
DB scheme  particularly when estimates of what the BSPS or the PPF were likely to 
provide on early retirement werent provided for comparison or consideration. So, I dont 
think transferring to achieve this was in his best interests, particularly given, as Ive already 
explained, he was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value.
PrisWM has said that Mr S retired at age 58 and began drawing an income in 2019, of 
approximately £1,300 per month (net of tax) from his pension. Which the BSPS and the PPF 
would not have matched. But again, these income needs were not known at the time of the 
advice and there was nothing recorded to indicate they were explored. Mr S wouldve been 
able to take benefits (albeit actuarially reduced) under the BSPS or the PPF at age 58. And 
there werent any estimates of what these amounts were for him to consider or to decide if 
he felt these might potentially be sufficient when combined with Mrs S income and pension 
benefits. They mightve been less than he ultimately decided to draw from the personal 
pension. But as they were guaranteed and escalated, he couldve decided a different level of 
income wouldve been acceptable. 
Ive also seen information from around the time the personal pension income began to be 
drawn that it was acknowledged that the level of income being taken was likely 
unsustainable. And a forecast indicated that, even if the income was reduced when Mr S 
began to receive his state pension, the pension fund is likely to now be exhausted by age 
83. Whereas the income under the DB scheme was guaranteed for life.
Again, I accept that the goals and objectives PrisWM has referred to were expressed by 
Mr S. But I dont think they were genuine needs at the time of the advice, or that transferring 
was the only way to address what appears to have been the most pressing of them  being 
secure in the knowledge the mortgage could be repaid. So overall, I dont think addressing 
these meant transferring was in Mr S best interests, when it was always likely to result in 
him receiving benefits of a lower overall value.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr S about what was best for his retirement provisions. Again, a pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And transferring was always likely to result in Mr S 
receiving lower retirement benefits than he wouldve through either the BSPS or the PPF.
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr S drew in his lifetime. 
I can see that Mr S expressed concerns about his potential life expectancy  and how this 
mightve been impacted by his profession. And it was mentioned in a lot of the correspondence that he was already affected by some health issues. But Mr S not reaching 
his life expectancy was only a possibility and it was also possible that he would exceed this, 
in which case Mr S pension would need to last longer. If Mr S transferred out of the DB 
scheme he would be relying on investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in 
the personal pension to provide the income he needed and any death benefits. And even if 
he didnt live until his average life expectancy, given the plan was for him to retire early and 
draw benefits flexibly from the personal pension  apparently drawing more in the early 
years of retirement  it was likely that the pension pot wouldve been significantly depleted 
by the time that it came to be passed on to his beneficiaries. So, the pension may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr S may have thought it would.
And the BSPS, and the PPF, wouldve provided a spouses pension if Mr S predeceased 
Mrs S. This was guaranteed for her lifetime and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance or how much had been taken from the pension plan to that point. 
PrisWM has said that Mrs S had a DB scheme of her own. But even so, the spouses benefit 
from Mr S pension was still likely to be useful to her. And I also understand, in addition to 
the spouses pension, the DB scheme pension would also, in certain circumstances, provide 
a lump sum on Mr S death as well  representing a return of his contributions.
In any event, PrisWM should not have encouraged Mr S to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement. And overall, I dont 
think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think it is clear from all of the information Ive seen that Mr S had concerns regarding the 
BSPS and what may happen to it. And I also dont doubt he was concerned about what 
entering the PPF would mean for him. His employer had been consulting on its plans for the 
scheme and it was clearly an uncertain time. And there also appears to have been a general 
mistrust and lack of optimism regarding the likelihood of a solution and towards his employer 
in general. And I think its clear from what Mr S said and wrote at the time that he was 
leaning towards transferring his benefits before even speaking to PrisWM. 
Contrary to what Mr S representatives have said, there was very little that had been 
confirmed at the time in relation to the BSPS2 either. So, I dont think this wouldve brought 
much reassurance.
Im also conscious, as Ive said, that PrisWM noted in the suitability report that Mr S was 
likely to be worse off by transferring and that the CETV appeared to be of poor value. And 
that Mr S acknowledged these things. So, its clear to me Mr S felt rather strongly about the 
uncertainty affecting his pension.
That being said I think that PrisWM shouldve reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he mightve thought. It looks like Mr S was apparently 
concerned that the BSPS could impact the ability of the PPF to function. And one of the 
meeting notes PrisWM has provided said its adviser agreed this would put stress on the 
PPF. But given the purpose and set up of the PPF, I dont think there was anything to 
support this and I think PrisWM shouldve done more to reassure Mr S about this.
While I accept Mr S was likely to retire early, his income needs were not recorded at the time 
of the advice and dont appear to have been discussed. And as Ive explained, I dont think 
transferring was the only way to meet his other objectives. The information in my view was 
clear that he was unlikely to exceed the overall benefits hed be due through the PPF by 
transferring. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower than under the BSPS, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that Mr S concerns shouldve led to PrisWM recommending he transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr S. But PrisWM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr S might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr S needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr S was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. PrisWM says his concerns about other issues outweighed this and 
that Mr S indicated as much. And I dont doubt he had other concerns, in particular in 
relation to clearing the mortgage. But as Ive explained I dont think he needed to transfer his 
pension. He shouldve been reassured that his guaranteed provisions under the DB scheme 
were likely sufficient to address his outstanding mortgage and shouldnt have been advised 
to transfer out of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable. And in my view, 
although Mr S mightve thought the other things that would be achieved by transferring were 
a good idea, there were no other particular reasons that justified a transfer.  
So, I think PrisWM shouldve advised Mr S to remain in the BSPS.
At the time of the advice Mr S, was considering retiring early retirement and taking this within 
a few years. And he subsequently did retire at age 58. And he was looking to take the 
maximum available TFC when he did retire. The PPF wouldve involved a 10% reduction in 
starting pension for members. But the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was 
lower than the alternative BSPS2. The commutation factors for TFC were also more 
favourable under the PPF when compared to the BSPS2. So, given Mr S circumstances and 
intentions, I think if PrisWM had advised him not to transfer, hed have retained his BSPS 
benefits and moved with it to the PPF when the time came to make a choice about this.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr S would've gone ahead anyway, against PrisWM's 
advice. PrisWM argues that he wouldve done so. And Ive considered this carefully.
As Ive already explained, Im satisfied that Mr S approached PrisWM with an intention in 
mind  as his initial email talks about his goal of clearing the mortgage using proceeds from 
the pension. But I dont think that means he wouldve been unwilling to accept advice.
Im conscious that the day after the first meeting with PrisWM, an email was sent to PrisWM 
by Mr and Mrs S asking whether, in the event the analysis done by PrisWM suggested they 
shouldnt transfer, it would refuse to assist or just advise them but leave the decision to 
them. Which could suggest that at that point, they were thinking of proceeding, whatever the 
analysis suggested. But I also think this question was likely to have been influenced by the 
fee structure discussed during the first meeting. PrisWM said thered be a fee of £2,500 to 
complete the analysis alone with a further fee if transferring was recommended and 
proceeded. So, this question I think was more likely to be around whether the fee would be 
lost entirely if the analysis didnt support a transfer, or whether there were options still 
available.
When completing the fact find, Mr S repeated his aims and concerns about the BSPS. But 
that was restating what had already been discussed in conversation with PrisWM. And 
again, I dont think putting those things in writing means Mr S was unwilling to take PrisWMs 
advice, once the relevant analysis was completed.Mr S did provide a further written statement (typed and signed) after the suitability report had 
been produced, re-affirming his reasons for wanting to transfer. Which is something I might 
expect to see where a business had advised against a transfer but the consumer was 
proceeding on an insistent client basis. But here PrisWM had advised Mr S to transfer. So, 
he understood at that time that his professional adviser thought transferring was suitable. 
And the reasons he listed for wanting to transfer, and the acknowledgment of the risks 
involved, largely mirrored information from the suitability report and that had been discussed 
previously. I dont think this is evidence that he wouldve transferred no matter what. Rather 
this seems to me just to show that Mr S had read the advice provided and was relying on it.
And as Ive indicated previously, I think there was information lacking from the analysis and 
suitability report that meant Mr S wasnt in a fully informed position at that time. There were 
no estimates of the benefits either the BSPS or the PPF would provide on retirement around 
60 (a suggested intention) or that the PPF would provide at any time for that matter. There 
also wasnt any information about the TFC that either would provide  other than what the 
BSPS would provide immediately. So, not only do I think this shows Mr S was relying on the 
advice provided, but he was also relying on incomplete information when doing so.
Based on what Ive seen, I understand Mr S was an inexperienced investor. He had a low 
tolerance for, and cautious attitude to, risk. The attitude to risk questionnaire supports this 
and indicates he was risk averse. And this pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provisions  and its main purpose was to provide an income in retirement. 
Although I know he had concerns about the BSPS and what had happened thus far and it 
appears he hoped to clear his mortgage, if PrisWM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr S concerns or his commitment to the course of action hed 
thought about before advice was taken were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If PrisWM had explained 
that Mr S didnt need to be overly concerned about the prospect of the pension entering the 
PPF and that this would still have left him in a position, through the guaranteed benefits 
available to him, to clear his mortgage when the time came, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
In light of the above, I think PrisWM should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that PrisWM also pay Mr S £200 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr S has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for PrisWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would 
have remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF. So, 
calculations should be undertaken on this assumption.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr S whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. Mr S has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr S.
PrisWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr S retired at 58, and I think he wouldnt have taken benefits from this pension 
until that age if he hadnt been advised to transfer, so this should be the basis for the 
calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision.
PrisWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr S within 90 days of the date PrisWM receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PrisWM to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect PrisWM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late April 2023. 
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out. 
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr S has retired and I think he wouldve done the same if hed had gone into the PPF. 
Retiring early was something that Mr S was thinking about at the time of the advice, largely 
for health reasons. And this seems to have been what resulted in him taking this decision in 
2019. As the benefits hed have been entitled to under the PPF, including TFC, wouldve 
likely allowed him to address his main concern of clearing the mortgage based on retiring at 
the same time, I think this is what he wouldve done.
Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the PPF, I 
think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) that 
entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr S. As such, I think 
its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could be 
made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason, while I know Mr S representative disagrees, I require PrisWM to undertake 
a redress calculation on the current known basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future 
buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both 
parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr S accepts this decision, he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set out 
above. Its important that Mr S is aware that, once any final decision has been issued, if 
accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.In addition to the calculation described above, PrisWM should pay Mr S £200 for the distress 
caused by the disruption to his retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PrisWM Limited to pay 
Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
PrisWM Limited to pay Mr S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PrisWM 
Limited to pay Mr S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PrisWM Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman