DRN-1406678
The complaint
Miss M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited have unfairly declined her 
claim for legal expenses insurance.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide a 
brief overview here. Miss M was attempting to buy a new property and had issues with the 
solicitor shed instructed who Ill refer to as H. She says the poor service she received from 
H is the reason the purchase didnt go through. She wanted to take legal action against H to 
recover the losses she says shes suffered as a result. 
So, she contacted Acromas who ultimately went on to decline the claim. They said that her 
claim was excluded from cover under the policy. Miss M disagreed and raised a complaint. 
When Acromas maintained their position, Miss M brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators didnt think it should be upheld. He concluded that Acromas decision 
was fair, so he didnt recommend that they needed to do more. As she still disagrees, Miss 
M has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Let me 
explain why. Miss Ms policy says that cover is provided for pursuing a legal claim following 
you buying services. Following her buying legal services from H, Miss M wanted to make 
a claim. 
However, like all insurance policies there are further terms, conditions and exclusions that 
must be considered. Listed under exclusions within the policy documents it says:
We do not coverany claim relating toprofessional negligence of any solicitor, lawyer or 
appropriately qualified person, firm or company acting on your behalf where the original 
matter for which they were instructed, is not covered under this policy
Ive looked at the documentation Miss M has sent in and this evidences that the matter for 
which shed originally instructed H, was related to the purchase of residential property. Ive 
also carefully looked at the remaining details of Miss Ms policy with Acromas. Cover is 
available for several areas which include contract disputes and property protection. But the 
policy provides no cover for claims for the legal expenses involved in the purchase of 
property, conveyancing or similar. Based on this I dont think it can fairly be said that the 
original matter for which H were instructed is covered by the policy. So I agree with Acromas 
that this exclusion applies to the claim Miss M wishes to make.  
Miss M says that the claim she wishes to make against H isnt for professional negligence, 
but rather for poor service delivery. Ive considered this point and Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I dont consider that to be materially different to a claim for professional 
negligence. However the claim might be phrased or described, the key issue is Miss M 
doesnt believe H did all they should and that this caused her a loss. So this doesnt change 
my opinion with regard to her complaint. Looking at everything as a whole, I dont think 
Acromas were acting outside the policy terms or unfairly when declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman