DRN-4249104
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr C had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr C a letter informing him that his credit card accout would be 
closed on in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
Mr C complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted 
fairly in closing Mr Cs account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the hotel 
voucher. Mr C wasnt happy with Creations response and brought his compaint to our 
service. 
After Mr C brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint. They offered Mr C a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and 
the free night stay voucher. Mr C didnt accept the offer as he didnt think the offer contained 
sufficient detail. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint and thought Creations offer was fair. 
Mr C disagreed. He said Creation hadnt done enough to put things right.  He complained 
that Creation havent offered compensation for the time, hassle and inconvenience caused 
and having to raise a complaint with our service. Hes also unhappy that he hasnt been 
compensated for loss of use of his annual fee refund due to the amount of time Creation has 
taken to sort things out.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Cs account. I reviewed the terms and they explain that Creation can clsoe an account for 
any reason by giving 60 days notice. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr C however, 
Creation have provided Mr C with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted 
unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Cs points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr C of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to 
see that they have now agreed to rectify this. I understand that Creation has already 
reimbursed Mr C his points and voucher. But Mr C is still awaiting his annual fee refund. I 
note that Creation has agreed to pro-rata refund of his annual fee, but I will make an award 
in that sum, of £62.65, so that Mr C can enforce it should he need to do so.
Mr C has said he wants additional compensation to resolve this matter. Hes pointed out that 
hes spent time and effort trying to resolve his complaint. And missed out on the use of his 
pro-rata refund of £62.65.
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. Mr C has asked to be 
compensated 8% interest on his pro-rata annual fee refund. To award 8%, Id need to be 
satisfied that hes lost out by not having the refund returned sooner. And on balance, I cant 
say this is the case. Therefore, I wont be awarding 8% interest. 
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, Ill be directing Creation to refund the unused part of the 
annual fee. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Pay Mr C £62.65
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman