DRN-4003188
The complaint
Mr A complains about Wise Payments Limited decision to review his account when he 
attempted an international transfer.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr A attempted to make a transfer from his Wise account. Following this, Wise 
restricted Mr As account while they carried out a review and requested additional 
information from Mr A. Mr A provided the requested information and continuously chased 
Wise for an update. Mr A says he had to take out a loan in the meantime due to the amount 
of money involved, and also sought his own legal representation. 
Wise confirmed they experienced internal backlogs which caused some delays but cancelled 
the transaction and returned the money back to Mr A in May 2022. 
Mr A wants Wise to put things right by reimbursing the legal fees Mr A incurred by appointing 
legal representation, paying the bank charges Mr A incurred by sending the transfer through 
a different bank, and the call costs associated with trying to rectify the issue.
Our investigator reviewed things and upheld Mr As complaint. In summary she said Wise 
were entitled to review the account and ask Mr A for extra information  and she was 
satisfied they could ultimately cancel the payment. But she did recognise Wise had caused 
delays and therefore thought Wise should pay 8% simple interest on the funds held to 
recognise the loss of use, reimburse Mr A for the call costs associated with this issue and 
pay £100 compensation. Our investigator didnt agree Mr As legal fees should be 
reimbursed or the bank charges.
Mr A disagreed. His legal representative on his behalf explained that Mr A had provided all 
the required information so Wise could have continued with the payment. As Wise acted 
after Mr A referred his complaint to our service, he feels both the damage and legal costs 
should be reimbursed. Overall, Mr A requests USD 9,401.15 to put things right.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr A, his 
representative and Wise have said before reaching my decision.
Wise are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Wise were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing Mr As account. Wise are required to regularly review the 
relationships they hold with their customers and its often appropriate for certain transactions 
to be reviewed. In Mr As case, a payment he made was flagged due to a potential sanctions 
link. So, Im pleased to see they decided to carry out a review on Mr As account. I 
appreciate Wise asked Mr A additional information, which Mr A complied with by answering 
the necessary questions. While Im aware no positive sanctions link was found, that doesnt 
mean the review was inappropriate. The terms of Mr As account (specifically section 25) 
allow Wise to take the appropriate action  so I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point. 
I do however agree that Wise caused some unnecessary delays which did have a 
detrimental impact on Mr A. Mr A answered the final request for additional information on 
14 April 2022  and therefore, I consider at this point, if it werent for the backlogs Wise were 
experiencing, the transaction could have been cancelled and returned to Mr A sooner than it 
was. Therefore, I agree Wise should recognise the loss of use of the funds to Mr A.
Ive thought carefully about Mr As point that Wise could have continued with the transfer  
and he feels they have breached their duties by not doing so. I cant fairly agree with this 
point. Wise are able to decide how they transact and what payments fall in and outside of 
their risk appetite. Therefore, while I appreciate Mr As strong sense of feeling around this, 
Im satisfied Wise were within their rights. Because of that, I also think Mr A would have 
always incurred the additional costs by sending the money through another bank  so I cant 
reasonably ask Wise to pay for this transfer fee.
Mr A decided to seek legal representation to assist him with his complaint to Wise and wants 
us to consider asking Wise to reimburse these costs. Its important to note that we provide 
an informal dispute resolution service. Customers don't need representation to make a 
complaint or bring their complaint to us. I appreciate this was a frustrating tine for Mr A and I 
recognise the impact caused to him. But I've not seen any evidence that Wise directed him 
to seek legal representation, or it was something he needed to do in the circumstances. As it 
was Mr A's choice to engage legal representation it follows that it wouldn't be fair to have 
those costs repaid  and thats because I cant hold Wise liable for them.
Putting things right
In order to recognise the loss of use of funds to Mr A, I consider 8% simple interest should 
be paid. 8% simple is the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts and therefore, I 
consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances.
I also consider Wise should reimburse Mr A for the calls made to Wise only after 14 April 
2022. I appreciate Mr A made other calls  including those made to our service and the 
regulator  however we do offer free phone numbers and therefore I cant reasonably ask 
Wise to pay associated costs for these. Considering the full circumstances of whats 
happened here, I feel £100 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience this 
overall situation has caused Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
In order to put things right, Wise Payments Limited should do the following:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from Mr A. They 
should calculate this from 15 April 2022 up to the date the money was released back 
to Mr A. HM Revenue & Customs requires Wise Payments Limited to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Wise should give Mr A a certificate showing how 
much is taken off if Mr A asks for one.
Reimburse Mr A with the call costs made to Wise after 14 April 2022.
Pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Im aware Wise previously accepted our investigators recommendations  and therefore if 
they have already paid the above to Mr A, I dont consider they need to pay anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman