DRN-3130713
complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2001. Mrs T, on behalf of herself and that of the late Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS) mis-sold them PPI.
Because Mrs T was the principal loan applicant and the PPI policy was in her sole name, Ill 
mainly refer to Mrs T and her circumstances at the time of the sale. But where it is 
appropriate and relevant to the time of the sale, Ill also refer to Mrs T and Mr T.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ts 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs T and the late Mr 
Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs T and Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because BoS has provided a copy of Mrs T and Mr Ts 
loan agreement from 2001. Looking at this I can see there is a X marked in the Yes 
box next to the question: Do you want Personal Loan Repayments Insurance?  There 
was also a No box.
While Im mindful the X is printed rather than handwritten, my understanding of the 
process at the time is that the question was asked by the representative during the 
application process and the loan agreement was printed out at the end of the meeting 
reflecting the discussion had. 
So taking everything into account, I think Mrs T and Mr T chose to take out PPI and likely 
did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs T - so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Mrs T was eligible for the cover 
and although she had existing means in the form of some sick pay, I think she still had a 
need for cover. Mrs T was the main household wage earner and jointly they were taking 
on secured debt. So a policy that would pay out in addition to Mrs Ts sick pay and for 
longer than I think Mrs T wouldve received full sick pay for  up to 12 months for 
unemployment and five years for accident and sickness  in the event of the insured 
risks becoming a reality, would have helped them out financially at what likely would be a 
difficult and perhaps uncertain time.
There was nothing about Mrs Ts employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim  so I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended it.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs T and Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs T as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. At around £6 a month it also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it would have been useful for both Mrs T and Mr T if something went wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mrs T and Mr T would have declined the cover had BoS 
done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs T and Mr T would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given Mrs Ts circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely Mrs T and Mr T thought they were 
getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should 
have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs T and the late Mr Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all 
PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs T and the late Mr Ts complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T, on behalf 
of herself and the estate of Mr T, to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman