DRN-4020009
The complaint
Mr H and Mr M complain about their mortgage with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. 
Theyre unhappy it wouldnt give them a new interest rate, and that it wouldnt agree to 
remove Mr M from the mortgage.
What happened
Mr H and a third party took out a mortgage in 2007. The mortgage was originally with 
another lender and later transferred to Kensington. 
The mortgage was on a fixed rate for the first three years, after which it reverted to a variable 
rate of 2.64% above the Barclays Bank base rate (which, in practice, has been the same as 
the Bank of England base rate). The mortgage has been on the variable rate since the fixed 
rate ended in 2010. The mortgage had been in arrears, but the arrears were capitalised 
around the same time. In around 2011, the original joint borrower was removed from the 
mortgage and replaced with Mr M, so from then on it was a joint mortgage between Mr H 
and Mr M.
Mr H and Mr Ms relationship broke down, and they contacted Kensington in 2021 to ask for 
Mr M to be removed from the mortgage, with it being put in Mr Hs sole name. Kensington 
said it couldnt make that change until Mr M had moved out of the property.
Mr H and Mr M complained. They said they were unhappy they had an interest only 
mortgage and while Kensington had offered to consider changing it to repayment terms that 
would be unaffordable for them, and Kensington hadnt offered them a lower interest rate to 
make it more affordable. Mr H and Mr M have managed to make overpayments to reduce 
the balance, but its only recently that the property has stopped being in negative equity. 
They said it was unfair that Kensington wouldnt consider removing Mr M from the mortgage 
until he had moved out. It meant Mr M had to take on the expense of renting another 
property without knowing hed be freed from his obligations under this mortgage. That 
amounted to discrimination.
Mr H has now been able to re-mortgage on a repayment basis with another lender, but he 
and Mr M said Kensingtons refusal to help them has caused additional stress and expense 
and prevented them making bigger overpayments. 
Kensington said Mr H and Mr M had asked about a new interest rate in November 2017 but 
it didnt have anything to offer them. It said they had asked about removing Mr M from the 
mortgage in 2021, and while it was willing to start the process it wouldnt be able to complete 
it until Mr M had left the property. It said it had told Mr H and Mr M this and hadnt received a 
formal application.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She said that when Mr H and Mr 
M asked about a new interest rate, in 2017, there wasnt one available. And she said it was 
reasonable that Kensington wouldnt complete a transfer of the mortgage while Mr M was 
still living in the property. Mr H and Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve separately explained (in a complaint against the original mortgage broker) that we 
cant consider a complaint about the advice Mr H and the original joint borrower received to 
take out this mortgage, because that complaint is out of time. 
In this complaint, Ill focus on the actions Kensington has taken, and in particular whether 
Mr H and Mr M have been charged a fair rate of interest or not, and whether Mr M should 
have been removed from the mortgage in 2021. Ive not seen evidence that theyve 
specifically asked Kensington about changing the mortgage to repayment terms, at least 
within the last six years. But in any case I understand their concerns about their inability to 
afford that, and the inability to make larger overpayments to reduce the balance, flow from 
their underlying complaint that the interest rate is unfairly high because Kensington didnt 
offer them a new interest rate.
Kensington didnt offer new interest rates to any existing customers until 2017. Theres 
nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions that says it has to. The mortgage offer 
just says the mortgage would be on the fixed rate until 2010 and then the variable rate 
thereafter. Nor is there any rule of mortgage regulation that says it had to offer new rates.
I understand Mr H and Mr M feel Kensington should have offered them a rate  not least 
because other mortgage lenders do. Thats true; many other lenders do choose to offer new 
interest rates to existing customers. But theres no obligation on them to do so, and in 
choosing not to offer rates to any customers before 2017 Kensington did nothing wrong. 
Mr H and Mr M were in the same position as all other Kensington customers, and their 
mortgage operated as the offer and terms and conditions said it would, so it didnt treat them 
unfairly.
Once Kensington did start to offer rates, in 2017, it didnt make them available to all 
customers. Its legitimate for lenders to have eligibility criteria  which means that some 
customers may be eligible for different rates to others, and some customers might not be 
eligible at all  but lenders should deal with any application fairly.
Theres also no obligation on lenders to pro-actively apply an interest rate to a mortgage. Not 
all customers want a new fixed rate. While a lender should consider any application it 
receives fairly, its ultimately up to the customer to make an application. 
With that in mind, Ive looked at the evidence to see whether there are any occasions Mr H 
and Mr M asked Kensington about a new interest rate once it started offering them in 2017.
Theres a record in Kensingtons contact history of a call in November 2017, when Mr H and 
Mr M asked whether new interest rates were available. Kensington said it didnt have any 
new rates available, and they would need to seek independent financial advice about re-
mortgaging. 
Theres no record of any contact with Mr H and Mr M then until January 2019, when there 
was a call about changing the date of the monthly payment and whether payment holidays 
were available. In February 2019, they were advised that they werent entitled to a payment 
holiday, but because they had made overpayments the mortgage was in credit and wouldnt 
be treated as being in arrears if they had missed a payment. Theres no record of a 
discussion about the interest rate at this time.In March 2019, Mr H and Mr M complained that Kensington told them it couldnt set up a 
direct debit for the amount they wanted to overpay as well as the contractual monthly 
payment following the change of payment date  though it later said it could. Again, theres 
no record of a discussion about the interest rate. 
In April 2019, there were further conversations about problems taking the new direct debit. In 
May 2020, there was a further complaint that the amount collected had changed following a 
change in the monthly payment  Kensington explained that it didnt collect a fixed amount, it 
collected the monthly payment (which had changed following a change in interest rates) plus 
an agreed overpayment amount. Kensington switched the direct debit to collecting a fixed 
amount. Again, theres no record of a discussion about the interest rate. 
In 2021, there were a series of conversations about the change of borrowers, but there is no 
record of a discussion about the interest rate.
Mr H and Mr M say they did ask about new interest rates, only to be told nothing was 
available. So as well as checking Kensingtons notes, Ive also listened to the call 
recordings, but  other than the conversation in November 2017  Ive not heard any 
mention of changing the interest rate on the mortgage. 
Mr H and Mr M have told us that the property has historically been in negative equity, and 
theyve been reducing the balance over time to deal with that. Using a house price index 
service, it appears that the value of their property in November 2017 was around £135,000 
and the mortgage balance was around £130,500. This makes the loan to value 97%.
Kensington told Mr H and Mr M that it didnt have rates available to them at this time. It did 
offer interest rates to existing customers. But loan to value was part of its eligibility criteria  
and a loan to value of 97% fell outside the criteria. No customer with a loan to value that high 
would have been eligible for a new interest rate.
I dont therefore think that Kensington treated Mr H and Mr M unfairly. Loan to value is a 
reasonable factor for a lender to take into account. No other Kensington customer with a 
loan to value at that level would have been offered a rate either. I dont think its unfair that it 
didnt offer one to Mr H and Mr M.
It's also the case that even if Mr H and Mr M had been eligible for a new fixed rate, and 
should fairly have been offered one, I dont think it would have made any difference. At this 
time, base rate was 0.5%. Mr H and Mr Ms reversion rate was 2.64% above base rate  
meaning the interest rate they were paying was 3.14%. This was lower than the fixed rates 
Kensington offered to existing customers. So taking a new fixed rate wouldnt have reduced 
their monthly payments in any event.
Turning to the application to change the parties to the mortgage in 2021, I dont think 
Kensington acted unfairly here either. It would only consider an application to remove Mr M, 
not Mr H, because it requires at least one of the original mortgage applicants to remain on 
the mortgage throughout.
And while it would consider an application to remove Mr M, it wouldnt complete and finalise 
the change until Mr M had moved out of the property, and it would require the ownership of 
the property to change at the same time as the mortgage changed.
I think thats fair and reasonable. Where an adult whos not party to the mortgage resides in 
a property, they potentially have rights in relation to the property which can complicate 
matters should Kensington ever need to repossess the property. And thats particularly true 
where the occupant is also an owner  or former owner  of the property. In order to make sure that its own security over the property was protected and fully enforceable (should the 
need ever arise), it wouldnt agree to remove Mr M from the mortgage until hed moved out.
I take Mr Ms point, that this means hed have to move out and commit to paying the rent 
somewhere else before he knew whether hed be free of his obligations under the mortgage. 
But I dont agree that it amounts to discrimination  as a matter of law under the Equality Act 
or otherwise. Kensingtons policy is a reasonable way of addressing a legitimate concern, 
and if Mr M wanted to be free of his obligations, its reasonable to expect Kensington not to 
have to take on extra risk to enable him to do so.
Kensington addressed Mr Ms concerns about this by saying that it would consider an 
application to remove him, and give them an answer on that application, before Mr M moved 
out of the property. But it wouldnt complete the change, formally removing Mr M from the 
mortgage, until after hed moved out. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman