DRN-3465057
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that J D Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs D opened a shopping account with J D Williams in May 2016. Her account limit was 
initially very low - £200. Over the course of the next two years Mrs Ds account limit was 
increased seven times until, in September 2018, it was £3,000.
Mrs D says that JD Williams shouldnt have lent to her. She says that J D Williams should 
have consulted her credit file and asked her more questions to find out if the credit was 
affordable for her. 
J D Williams says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mrs D  and when it 
increased her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Ds complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit given to Mrs D was acceptable, but that by the time her credit was increased 
for the seventh time, J D Williams didnt act fairly or reasonably in doing so.
 
Our adjudicator said that JD Williams should pay back interest and charges it made as a 
result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Mrs D.
 
Mrs D agreed with the adjudicators assessment. J D Williams didnt agree. It said that 
although Mrs D had missed two payments prior to the relevant credit limit increase that Mrs 
Ds account history showed she generally managed her account well and that she often 
overpaid her minimum repayment amount. J D Williams said that although her balance 
wasnt going down significantly, this was because she continued to spend on her account as 
she made repayments.
 
As J D Williams didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mrs Ds complaint.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that JD Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs D. These factors include:
Mrs Ds income, reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
to a given loan amount from a lower level of income;
The amount due to be repaid, reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income;
The frequency of borrowing and the length of time Mrs D had been indebted, 
reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Mrs D opened her account in May 2016, JD Williams has told us there were no signs 
of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, I dont think 
there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for JD Williams to have 
approved the account. JD Williams didnt ask about Mrs Ds income, and this may have 
helped it begin to build a picture of Mrs Ds financial circumstances. But even if it had, at this 
stage, I dont think it would have made a difference to its decision to extend the credit. From 
the bank statements Mrs D has provided to us it seems that her joint income with her 
husband was almost £5,000 a month and her original credit limit was £200.
In July 2016, JD Williams increased Mrs Ds credit limit to £400. Between August 2016 and 
June 2017 Mrs Ds credit limit was increased five times until it reached £2,300.
JD Williams did checks before each increase. The credit checks showed that there was a 
historic default on Mrs Ds credit file. But the account history shows that Mrs D was making 
regular payments above the minimum amount required which showed she was maintaining 
the account well. While I think it would have been appropriate for J D Williams to have 
checked Mrs Ds income for these limit increases (to help build a picture of her 
circumstances) I havent seen anything to suggest that J D Williams ought to have thought 
the credit was unaffordable for Mrs D at this time. So, I dont think JD Williams did anything 
wrong providing these increases.
However, in late September 2018 the credit limit was raised to £3,000 from £2,300. Our 
adjudicator set out in some detail why they thought J D Williams shouldnt have provided Mrs 
D with the credit limit increase in September 2018. J D Williams said that the checks it 
completed when Mrs Ds credit was extended were sufficient and that Mrs Ds full credit limit 
was never fully utilised and Mrs D often paid more than the minimum payment due. It says 
that was how it monitored the account to ensure that the lending was suitable. 
However, in the four months prior to the increase in this limit Mrs D missed making her 
repayments three times. Although she made one payment for more than her minimum 
required repayment this appeared to only cover a further purchase. Her outstanding 
indebtedness to J D Williams increased significantly over those months, from £880 to £1,300 
 even with a payment made of £300. And it seems that Mrs Ds borrowing on other 
revolving credit facilities had increased by over £2,000 since the last increase.
I think it would have been proportionate for JD Williams to have found out more about Mrs 
Ds expenditure at this point, such as her living costs, as well as her income. I say this because at this stage J D Williams appears to have still had little understanding of what Mrs 
Ds financial circumstances were outside of the credit check it completed. Ive seen that in 
the months leading up to September 2018, Mrs D was significantly overdrawn on her joint 
current account for a prolonged period of time; I think its likely this would have been visible 
on any credit check JD Williams completed. Her bank statements indicate Mrs D was 
repaying JD Williams with other credit (her overdraft) rather than from any disposable 
income she may have had. And we know that Mrs D also missed making repayments on her 
account. 
I think if J D Williams had made these enquiries it would have seen that Mrs D was 
struggling to manage her borrowing and that she would not be able to afford increased 
repayments. I note J D Williams point that Mrs D continued to spend on her account and 
that this was why her balance wasnt reducing significantly, but this does not negate the fact 
that I consider that further checks as I have described would have alerted J D Williams to 
Mrs Ds existing difficulties in managing her balances.
 
So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for JD Williams to have increased the limit to £3,000 
in September 2018.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for J D Williams to refund any interest and charges incurred by 
Mrs D as a result of the credit unfairly extended to him. I dont think the limit should have 
been increased from 26 September 2018 onwards therefore J D Williams should rework the 
account and:
remove any interest and charges incurred after 26 September 2018 as a result of any 
increases (including any buy now pay later interest). That is, J D Williams can only 
add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit of £2,300 - being the credit 
limit before 26 September 2018.
J D Williams should work out how much Mrs D would have owed after the above 
adjustments. Any repayment Mrs D made since 26 September 2018 should be used 
to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mrs D 
along with 8% simple interest per year* - calculated from the date of overpayment to 
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs D no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from September 2018. My understanding is that this will be the case as Mrs D 
cleared her account in 2021.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I think JD Williams acted unfairly when it extended further credit to Mrs D on 26 September 
2018. To put this right I direct JD Williams & Company Limited to pay compensation as 
explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman