DRN-3826053
The complaint
Mr S complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGICE) declined 
his pet insurance claim. My references to CGICE include its agents. 
What happened
On 1 July 2021 Mr S pet insurance for his dog started, insured by CGICE. Hed taken out 
the policy online. Mr S says hes had pet insurance for both his dogs from the day he had 
them but switched to this policy following the previous insurer's unacceptable increase in 
premiums.
On 17 January 2022 Mr S took one of his dogs to the vet as the dog had been continually 
sick the night before. The dog was referred to a specialist and diagnosed with gallstones. 
Mr S claimed for the vet costs.
CGICE declined the claim. CGICEs final response letter declined the claim for two reasons 
(although its final response letter to Mr S isnt very clear about that).
First, CGICE said when Mr S took out the policy online hed ticked a box to confirm hed read 
the assumptions which said: 
You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing 
or if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the 
event of an accident.
CGICE said Mr S didnt tell it about any pre-existing condition for the vomiting and diarrhoea 
and if hed done so it would have applied a specific exclusion on the policy for cover on all 
claims with respect to the digestive system with effect from 1 July 2021. CGICE added that 
exclusion to apply from the start of the policy and said the claim fell within that exclusion.
Second, CGICE said Mr S dogs vet notes showed he had a history of vomiting and 
diarrhoea before the policy started and the policy excluded pre-existing conditions.
Mr S complained to us. In summary he said his dogs vomiting and diarrhoea were months 
apart, nothing to do with gallstones and his vet had sent evidence to CGICE that the 
symptoms werent related to gallstones. He also said that before he took out the policy his 
dog had problems with allergies, so he knew CGICE wouldnt cover the allergies, but his dog 
hadnt shown symptoms of any other illness to tell it about. He wants CGICE to pay his claim 
and, as it may be an ongoing condition, future claims as well.
Ultimately our investigator said CGICE couldnt fairly apply a retrospective exclusion to the 
policy and use that exclusion to decline the claim. But she said CGICE could fairly decline 
the claim using the exclusion for pre-existing conditions.
Mr S disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether CGICE fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the basis of 
either of the two exclusions it relied on and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Did CGICE fairly add and rely on the specific exclusion for claims for the digestive system to 
decline the claim?
In line with the relevant legislation about non-disclosure, The Consumer Insurance 
Disclosure and Representation Act 2012 (CIDRA), I generally say an insurer can fairly add 
an exclusion to the policy retrospectively if:
the policyholder didnt take reasonable care in answering clear questions asked 
when they bought the policy, and
if the insurer had known the correct information it would have added the exclusion.
CGICE hasnt shown that when Mr S bought the policy he was asked a clear relevant 
question that would have enabled him to tell it his dog had previously visited a vet for 
vomiting and diarrhoea. Instead it says during the policy application Mr S was asked to read 
and tick a box to confirm hed read the assumptions and policy terms.
The assumption isnt a clear question that enabled Mr S to disclose previous ill health his 
dog may have had. So I disagree with CGICEs suggestion that Mr S failed to take 
reasonable steps to not make a misrepresentation.
That means I dont think CGICE fairly and reasonably added and applied the retrospective 
exclusion for claims for the digestive system to decline the claim.
As I find that CGICE unfairly added the retrospective exclusion it must remove the exclusion 
for cover on all claims with respect to the digestive system, the removal to be effective from 
the start of the policy, 1 July 2021.
Could CGICE fairly rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion?
The policy doesnt cover:
Any claim for Illness .. that relates to a Pre-existing Condition, or
Any claim for Illness  that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms before Your Policy 
Start Date 
The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date 
In CGICEs final response letter to Mr S it referred to three entries on the vet notes to 
support that his dog had a pre-existing condition.
In 6 June 2018 Mr S vet noted diarrhoea 2 days still bright/eating no vom watery diarrhoea 
nothing abnormal detected on exam. The vet recommended a bland diet and then a gradual 
reintroduction of normal food.
Ive seen no evidence to support that the episode of diarrhoea in 2018 was a symptom of the 
gallstones which the vet first suspected in January 2022. As this episode occurred two and 
half years before the gallstone diagnosis I think its highly unlikely this episode was a clinical 
sign of the gallstones.On 20 November 2020 Mr S vet noted that his dog had vomited six times that morning but 
didnt have diarrhoea and that the dog had been off lead in park yesterday and did eat 
something but O(wner) doesn't know what. The vet noted possible diagnoses as infectious 
gastritis, pancreatitis, ingestion of substance that has caused gastritis, fb.
On 25 November 2020 the vet notes show Mr S had reported that his dog was much better 
since appt last week, vomiting stopped.
Mr S dogs vet evidence to CGICE about that vomiting episode is:
We are unsure as to how the current diagnosis of gallstones can be related to an 
episode of suspected ingestion of a foreign body? (The dogs) symptoms were 
treated and no investigations were performed. He improved quickly and our 
assumption is that he ate something that he shouldn't have (as the notes state).
So the vet has given clear expert opinion that the vomiting wasnt a symptom of the dogs 
gallstones.
On 7 June 2021 Mr S vet notes show Mr S spoke to the vet as his dog had occasional 
softer poos, occasionally diarrhoea, sometimes mucous. other days normal poos. otherwise 
well in self.
Mr S vet told CGICE they didn't see the dog on 7 June 2021 and that:
His owner reported that (the dog) had occasional soft stools and occasional 
diarrhoea but normal stools on other days. (The dog) suffers from allergies and 
therefore if anything, we would be more inclined to link this episode to his history of 
allergies. We would not consider this to be indicative of gallstones.
So the vet has given clear expert opinion that this episode of diarrhoea was likely to be due 
to the dogs history of allergies. The vet is clear the episode wasnt a symptom of the dogs 
gallstones.
Ive seen no evidence from CGICE to show that the vomiting and diarrhoea Mr S dog had 
before the policy started was a symptom of gallstones. The clear evidence from Mr S vet is 
that his dog didnt have symptoms of gallstones before the policy started.
I find that CGICE didnt fairly and reasonably rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
decline the claim.
I think the fair outcome is for CGICE to pay the claim in line with the policy terms, limits and 
subject to the policy excess. If Mr S has already paid the vet costs CGICE must add interest 
as Ive detailed below.
I note Mr S says he had to make another claim for further treatment for his dogs gallstones 
and may have to make claims for the condition in the future, which he wants CGICE to pay 
too. My decision is only about the claim Mr S made before he complained to us. CGICE will 
need to assess the further claim and any future claims on the evidence it has at the time. If it 
declines those claims and Mr S disagrees he can make a separate complaint to it and 
ultimately to us to consider.Responses to my provisional decision
CGICE didnt respond to my provisional decision and neither did Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither CGICE nor Mr S responded to my provisional decision Ive no reason to change 
my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold 
this complaint as I think CGICE unfairly added the specific exclusion to the policy and 
unfairly declined Mr S claim. 
Putting things right
CGICE must pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to 
any excess. If Mr S has already paid the vet it must add interest as detailed below. CGICE 
must also remove the exclusion for the digestive system with effect from the start of the 
policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
pay Mr S claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any 
excess. If Mr S has already paid the vet it must add interest* at 8% a year simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion for the digestive system with effect from the start of the policy.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr S how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman