DRN-4305767
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc delayed in providing them with 
an appointment with a mortgage adviser, a second appointment was then required causing a 
further delay, and the interest rate product couldnt be booked until that second appointment. 
They say this meant they ultimately secured a higher interest rate for their further advance 
than they would have without these delays. Theyre also unhappy about the time it took to 
release the funds.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had an existing mortgage with NatWest, and they wanted to borrow some 
extra money to consolidate some debts and to buy a car each.
On 21 September 2022 Mr and Mrs H contacted NatWest to ask about further borrowing. A 
basic decision in principle was given in that call and an appointment was booked for 
3 October (which was the first available date) for a mortgage appointment.
On 3 October Mr and Mrs H spoke to the mortgage adviser. They went through the 
documents Mr and Mrs H had uploaded to NatWests portal ahead of the call to check the 
further advance appeared affordable and sustainable. At the start of that call Mr and Mrs H 
were told it was the first of two calls, with the second call being in about ten days time. They 
were told the second call was when the rate would be discussed and secured, and all the 
paperwork would be completed and that it would be about five to six weeks for them to get 
the money (if the further advance was approved).
At the end of the call the second appointment was booked for 14 October (again the first 
available appointment), and there was a brief discussion about how rates were changing. 
The second appointment took place on 14 October and the further advance application was 
made, with the rate secured.
Mr and Mrs H complained to NatWest about the delays in both securing a rate and the 
application being processed. They said it wasnt made clear that two mortgage appointments 
would be required.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint  in summary it said that its process for further 
advances is that two appointments take place, the first to do the initial checks and the 
second to discuss rates and to make the application. It apologised if that wasnt made clear 
to Mr and Mrs H and said it wasnt possible to offer them a rate that was available before 
14 October. In relation to the time taken to process the application it said the application was 
reviewed by the underwriters on 4 November with the offer being issued the same day, and 
the funds were released on 7 November. It said that was in line with its timescales at the 
time.
When Mr and Mrs H complained to our service, our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Briefly, she said that two appointments were needed and although Mr and Mrs H werent 
specifically told that on 21 September, they also werent told that it would definitely only be 
one appointment. She said NatWest released the funds in a reasonable timeframe, and at 
the time many lenders were experiencing an increased demand for mortgage services.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, saying it was unfair as they were existing customers of NatWest 
and had everything ready to go. They said they were told they would only need one meeting 
and were also told they couldnt take out a second charge with an alternative company.
As an agreement wasnt reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
It is NatWests process that all existing customers asking for a further advance have two 
mortgage appointments. The first to go through the income and expenditure and other initial 
checks, and the second to give advice about the product and to complete the application. So 
NatWest didnt treat Mr and Mrs H any differently to how it would have treated any other of 
its customers that wanted a further advance on their mortgage. Whilst Mr and Mrs H feel the 
second appointment wasnt necessary, NatWest is entitled to decide how to take further 
advance applications and I dont think it is an unreasonable decision for it to have made.
Mr and Mrs H have said that they were told they would only need one meeting but having 
listened to the calls of 21 September and 3 October I dont agree. Whilst they werent 
specifically told on 21 September that two meetings would be needed, they also werent told 
it would only be one meeting either. It was made clear on 3 October that a second meeting 
would be needed, that it would be about ten days ahead, and that the processing time was 
around five to six weeks until the funds would be released and Mr and Mrs H chose to go 
ahead.
I also have to think about what Mr and Mrs H might have done differently if it had been made 
clear on 21 September that two meetings would be needed and having considered 
everything I dont think they would have taken any different action.
In the call on 3 October Mr and Mrs H mentioned theyd taken the mortgage originally 
through a mortgage broker, and they thought this further advance could have been secured 
sooner had they done the same again. But as the adviser correctly explained NatWest 
doesnt take further advance applications (in isolation) from mortgage brokers. There are 
some exceptions to that, but none of them were applicable here. So if Mr and Mrs H had 
instead approached a mortgage broker, the mortgage broker would simply have told Mr and 
Mrs H that theyd need to speak to NatWest directly.
Mr and Mrs H have also said that they were told they could not take out a second charge 
with an alternative lender. Nationwide has searched its call records from 1 August 2022 until 
30 October 2022 for the number Mr and Mrs H said they would have called from but there is 
no record of that call. That said, even if that was the case it doesnt help matters. Thats 
because there are specialist second charge lenders and the rates that would have been 
available from them would likely have been significantly higher than the 5.24% fixed rate that Mr and Mrs H obtained from NatWest. In addition there are normally larger set up fees with 
second charge loans. Mr and Mrs H couldnt have simply approached a different high street 
lender for a further advance without moving their whole mortgage to that new lender (and 
incurring an early repayment charge with NatWest on their existing mortgage account).
Having considered everything I dont find it likely Mr and Mrs H would have been able to 
obtain a second charge loan at a lower cost (taking into account the interest rate and set up 
costs) than they eventually got with NatWest for this further advance.
The interest rates offered by lenders vary over time, and it isnt in dispute that mortgage 
rates were rising around the relevant time. But NatWests staff wouldnt have known what 
rates it would be offering in the future, nor was there anything those staff members could 
have done to book Mr and Mrs H a rate any sooner.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H think 23 days is a long time to wait from their initial call until the 
final appointment, but NatWest isnt required to provide appointments within a specified time 
period. It was a busy time for many mortgage lenders, with rates rapidly changing and 
customers trying to get rates secured. NatWest would have had many customers in a similar 
situation to Mr and Mrs H and it is only fair they worked through those in turn.
For these reasons, I dont think NatWest has made an error in the circumstances. This 
means I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible for Mr and Mrs H ultimately securing 
a higher interest rate than they might have achieved if their application for a further advance 
had been made sooner.
In terms of the processing time, again NatWest was busy with a lot of mortgage applications 
at the time due to the rate changes. Mr and Mrs H were told it would be about five to six 
weeks in the call on 3 October and the funds were released five weeks after that call. That 
isnt an unreasonable timeframe in all the circumstances and so I dont hold NatWest 
responsible for any issues caused by that timescale.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman