DRN-2901071
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fish Financial Ltd misrepresented the prospects of an Enterprise 
Investment Scheme being able to raise the capital it needed which he relied upon when 
investing in the scheme.
What happened
In 2017 Mr M invested £25,000 in Hidden Planet, a Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme 
based on advice he received from Fish Financial. In 2019 Hidden Planet needed further 
investor funds to cover short-term cash requirements. Mr M agreed to invest a further 
£25,017 in the scheme after being contacted by the Managing Director (the MD) of Fish 
Financial about this. The further investment qualified as an Enterprise Investment Scheme 
(EIS).
Hidden Planet didnt raise the £1 million it needed within the timescale of two months that 
had been referred to by the MD. Mr M complained because he says he invested on the basis 
that he had been informed that there was an 85% chance of it raising the money it needed in 
two months and that this was misleading.
He also raised issues about not being sent the full suitability report before his second 
investment, for not telling him that his High Net Worth (HNW) statement still applied and for 
Fish Financial not initiating a complaint when the fundraise failed.
Fish Financial upheld the complaint about failing to send the suitability report but didnt think 
this would have affected his decision to invest. It offered £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. It didnt uphold the complaint about it having misrepresented the 
prospects of Hidden Planet raising the funds it needed or about it having delayed initiating a 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision and my findings are set out below:
I note that Mr M raised a number of issues in his complaint, but from what I have seen the 
only remaining issue is about the information provided by the MD about the fundraising  in 
particular his statement there was an 85% prospect of the fundraising being achieved. 
However, I will comment briefly on the other issues.
An initial suitability report was sent to Mr M on 1 March 2019 by an adviser, with a 
completed report sent on 4 March 2019. The suitability report post-dated the investment 
and the MD has confirmed the adviser didnt meet Mr M. So, the suitability report appears 
to have been provided mainly to satisfy Fish Financials regulatory obligations rather than 
based on any consideration of his actual needs. That aside Fish Financial has offered £250 
for not providing the suitability report earlier which seems reasonable.
Mr M raised an issue about being treated as a High Net Worth Individual based on 
information Mr M provided in 2017. I have seen nothing that shows Fish Financial was 
wrong to continue to treat him as such in 2019.
Turning to the main issue, Fish Financial has questioned the significance of the fundraising 
given Hidden Planet continued without this for a further 12 to 18 months and only failed 
because of the pandemic. However, what I am considering is whether the MD said anything 
to Mr M he shouldnt have said and if he did whether Mr M invested based on what he was 
told. The fact that Hidden Planet didnt fail immediately when the £1 million fundraising didnt 
materialise is irrelevant.
Fish Financial has also suggested that Mr M has been opportunistic in making his 
complaint, but this doesnt reflect what happened. Mr M didnt wait to see what happened 
with Hidden Planet before raising concerns. He emailed the MD in May 2019 and made 
clear that he was unhappy that the expected £1 million funding hadnt been obtained in the 
two-month period that the MD had referred to.
Turning to what the MD stated to Mr M, he initially emailed on 5 February 2019 with 
an update from the CEO of Hidden Planet. In that email the MD referred to being on 
to a winner but that short-term cash flow remained a concern.
This was followed by a further email from the MD only a few days later, on 10 February 
2019. As well as including a further update this referred to; his extreme confidence in 
raising a minimum of £1 million in the next two months; the very real possibility of 
competition between VC/PE firms; the challenge being cash flow over the next two 
months; having invested £20,000 himself and having secured £25,000 from another 
investor.
I think when these various statements are considered together, they presented a very 
positive view of the investment in Hidden Planet and that the only real issue was a 
short- term cash problem over the next two months. The email then states:
You chose not to participate in the rights issue last time perhaps you would now be 
prepared to consider a £20k-25k further investment in order to help the long-term success 
of the company and your investment.
So, having painted a very positive view of the investment and funding position and there 
being a temporary cash flow issue the adviser then indicated the success of Mr Ms 
existing investment was to some degree dependent on further investment. I think what 
the MD said to Mr M was bound to be persuasive. In response Mr M emailed and stated:
clearly I have an interest in Kompas succeeding!
which I think shows that Mr M had very much taken account of what the MD had said 
about further investing helping the long-term success of his investment. Mr M went on to 
state:
it would be helpful to understand what the degree of certainty is that no further shorter-
term funds will be required before the minimum financing of £1m is achieved. Can you put 
a risk factor on this for me.
In response to this the MD emailed back on 11 February 2019 and said:
The £70k will hopefully arrive within the next few weeks with the company having ac.£30k. 
cash burn rate. I already injected £20k last month to allow them to pay the wages and with 
the full knowledge it would take a further £60-£70k to fund the next couple of months. Based 
on the number of discussions currently taking place and the commitments (conditional or 
otherwise) from PE/VC firms I am very confident (say 85%) that the min £1m will be put in place within 2 months. I believe there is scope/goodwill to squeeze another month (£30k) 
from investors/friends/family if necessary as a back stop.
Mr M then confirmed on 12 February 2019 that after some hard thinking and having spoken
to the adviser who had recommended the original investment in 2017 he could be counted 
in for £25,000. He remitted the money to Hidden Planet on 25 February 2019.
Going back to the email of 10 February 2019 I note the MD did state that he was a 
Director of Hidden Planet and that he was writing more in that capacity than on behalf of 
Fish Financial and that as an investor himself there was a conflict of interest and 
suggested that the adviser who had advised Mr M in 2017 could provide impartial advice. 
However, I note the suitability report provided in March 2019 was from another adviser 
who didnt see Mr M. I have been provided with no evidence of advice from the adviser 
who recommended the 2017 investment.
I have considered whether the MDs statement that he was acting more as a Director of 
Hidden Planet than for Fish Financial means that it isnt then responsible for his 
statements. Im not persuaded that it was enough for him to say he was acting more for 
Hidden Planet than Fish Financial.
The email of 10 February 2019 was a follow-on to the email of 5 February 2019 which 
was clearly on behalf of Fish Financial. All the email correspondence from the MD was 
from him as the Managing Director of Fish Financial  in other words he didnt 
correspond as a Director of Hidden Planet he only corresponded as the MD for Fish 
Financial.
I think it is also arguable that what the MD said to Mr M could amount to advice. I say 
that because the regulators Perimeter Guidance manual (PERG) makes clear that 
advice isnt limited to what is set out in formal suitability reports. 
PERG 8.28.6 states:
An explicit recommendation to buy or sell is likely to be advice. However, something 
falling short of an explicit recommendation can be advice too. Any significant element of 
evaluation, value judgment or persuasion is likely to mean that advice is being given.
I think when the overall information provided by the MD is looked at it could be considered 
as amounting to advice based on the guidance set out above. This is something the MD 
could only provide through Fish Financial  in other words he wasnt permitted to give 
advice on behalf of Hidden Planet. Based on the evidence I have seen, Im satisfied that 
Fish Financial is responsible for statements made by the MD to Mr M about the 
fundraising.
I asked Fish Financial what the MD had relied upon when saying that he was 85% 
confident that the funding would be secured. In response the MD said that his 
assessment was based on weekly telephone calls and the regular updates from Hidden 
Planets CEO. He has referred to the update provided to him by email on 25 January 2019 
which was attached to the email he then sent to Mr M.
I acknowledge the update was positive about the current position with Hidden Planet, but 
it provided no real information about the likelihood of securing the necessary funding. I 
accept that the MD will have seen other updates and information from Hidden Planet and 
given the MD put his own money into Hidden Planet to support the short-term position I 
think he felt it had good prospects.I also acknowledge that there was interest from VC funds and other potential investors - 
the MD has referred to the update of 25 January 2019 from the Hidden Planet CEO 
showing there was active discussion with 14 VCs, two Family Offices and five Angel 
Investors.
However, Im not satisfied that any of that was a basis for putting forward a figure as to 
the likelihood of the £1 million funding being available in two months. Just because there 
were ongoing discussions with various potential investors, some of which were well 
advanced, wasnt a basis for suggesting that there was only a small possibility  15% - 
that the funding wouldnt be in place as expected in my view.
It is also of note that in response to Mr Ms email of 15 May 2019 the MD confirmed the 
funding wasnt in place but that there were ongoing discussions with a number of VC 
funds and that a number of Angels had verbally committed to providing some funds but 
that they were all waiting for one VC to lead the round.
I think the MDs response is further evidence as to why it wasnt appropriate to put any 
kind of percentage figure on the likelihood of funding being available as hoped. It shows 
the sorts of issues that can arise with funding of schemes such as Hidden Planet and the 
inadvisability of suggesting the likelihood of success of getting the necessary funding 
within specified timescales.
I note the MD has said that the assertion by Mr M that he relied on the 85% probability 
comment only came after the investment had been made. But I cant see any reason he 
would have specifically referred to this earlier. And Im not persuaded that this suggests 
Mr M didnt place any weight on what the MD said when deciding whether to invest or 
not.
Im satisfied that the 85% figure the MD provided was a key reason for Mr M investing a 
further amount given he made specific reference to this when he emailed the MD on 15 
May 2019.
Having said that I dont think it was necessarily the only thing that led Mr M to invest. I 
think it is more likely than not the MDs statements about being on to a winner, his 
extreme confidence the £1 million would be raised in two months and the suggestion that 
further investment would help the long-term success of Hidden Planet will also have 
influenced Mr M.
The MD has said that if Mr M had stated to him before he invested that he was going to 
invest based on the 85% figure the MD had provided, he would have told him to 
reconsider. This seems to be an acknowledgement that the figure wasnt based on 
anything concrete.
I think it should have been clear to the MD that Mr M was likely to place some weight on 
what the MD said given Mr M specifically asked him to provide a risk factor in response to 
the suggestion he invest further money. With this in mind the MD shouldnt have provided 
any figure as to the prospects of the funding being forthcoming given he has now 
suggested this was something Mr M shouldnt have relied upon.
The MD has pointed out that he didnt guarantee the funding would be available in two 
months and that there was an 85% prospect of funding meant there was a 15% chance 
the funding wouldnt be available. However, I think this misses the point as I dont think the 
MD should have provided any figure to Mr M as I am not satisfied it was possible to say 
what the prospects were of getting the funding based on the available information.I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider. Mr M responded and said that the offer of £250 Fish Financial had 
made for the delay in sending the suitability report hadnt been accepted by him because it 
had been offered in full and final settlement.
He asked me to confirm that it should pay this amount to him. He also said that as Hidden 
Planet was in the process of a Creditors Voluntary Liquidation (CVA), did I agree that 
assignment of the shares wasnt necessary.
Fish Financial responded and, in summary, made the following points:
The basis of the ombudsman finding against it was that the MD referring to 85% 
prospect of the funding being available but acknowledges there are several reasons 
that are likely to have influenced Mr Ms decision to invest.
The ombudsman says that the MD shouldnt have provided any figure to Mr M but 
contradicts his own point as he refers to three other statements that likely influenced 
Mr M. In particular the ombudsman identified that further investment in order to 
safeguard the existing investment was a genuine and obvious alternative reason for 
Mr M to invest further.
The MD at all times reminded Mr M of the need to take advice from his Financial 
Adviser and Mr M confirmed he had done this, so it is perplexed that the ombudsman 
has overlooked this.
The ombudsman said he had seen no advice from the adviser who advised Mr M in 
2017 but refers to Mr M having spoken to that adviser. That adviser was copied into 
the emails and was in day-to-day contact with Mr M throughout the whole period and 
the ombudsman cant be in doubt that impartial advice was sought and received by 
Mr M as confirmed in his email of 12 February 2019.
The March 2019 report was written by another adviser because he had written similar 
reports for other clients and the 2017 adviser wasnt available.
The ombudsman in referring to the MD saying he would have told Mr M to reconsider 
if he stated he was going to invest based on the 85% figure, has missed that the MD 
was talking about where the 85% was the only reason that Mr M was going to invest. 
The point that was being made was that if Mr M was investing only because of the 
85% figure the MD would have reminded him there were pros and cons to investing 
and that they should take time to reflect on that rather that relying just on that.
The MD didnt say the 85% wasnt something Mr M should rely upon, he stated it was 
something he shouldnt solely rely upon.
It is always possible to provide a probability figure and it is apparent to any one 
asking the question that the figure provided is a probability of the thing happening 
and it is incomprehensible that the ombudsman could rule that an adviser should 
have refused to have provided a relevant, numeric risk-assessed piece of information 
specifically requested by a client.
The MD was ably qualified to provide an assessment of the probability of the funding 
being available based on his experience and his non-executive role with the 
company.
The 85% figure was a fair and realistic assessment based on the information 
available to the MD through various means, including meetings with the CEO for 
Hidden Planet that specifically focused on fund-raising and ongoing discussions with 
14 PE/VC firms taking place concurrently at the time three of which had progressed 
to due diligence stage.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken account of the points raised by Fish Financial but nothing it has said persuades 
me I should change my provisional decision. I set out the main points it has made and my 
response to those points below.
I have accepted that the reference to 85% chance of funding becoming available 
wasnt the only information that influenced Mr Ms decision to invest a further amount.
The reference to there being an 85% prospect of the funding being available in two months 
wasnt the only information the MD provided to Mr M as I said in my provisional decision. 
The other statements that the MD made and which I referred to undoubtedly had some 
influence on Mr M as they are what led him to ask the MD to put a risk factor on the need for 
further short-term funding.
I dont agree that I have contradicted myself by referring to these other statements whilst 
stating that the MD shouldnt have provided a figure to Mr M in response to his question. 
The fact that the MD made other statements doesnt mean him then stating that there was 
an 85% chance that the minimum £1 million funding would be in place within two months 
wasnt instrumental in Mr Ms decision to invest.
Whilst it is possible that Mr M would have still invested if the MD hadnt provided a figure, I 
am not satisfied it is more likely than not he would have done so.
I also think it is necessary to point out that I didnt say that further investment to protect his 
existing investment was a genuine and obvious alternative reason for Mr M to invest a 
further amount.  I simply set this out as one of the things referred to by the MD that I thought 
would have influenced Mr M. I am not satisfied it was appropriate for the MD to make such a 
statement to Mr M. 
I have overlooked that Mr M was told to seek advice by the MD and confirmed that 
he had done so.
I have not overlooked this. I made reference to Mr M saying to the MD on 12 February 2019 
that he had spoken to the adviser who had originally advised him in 2017. However, I dont 
agree that having a discussion with a previous adviser about what the MD had said then 
means the MD no longer has any responsibility for the decision Mr M made to make a further 
investment.
I am satisfied that Mr M invested as a result of what he was told by the MD, particularly the 
statement about there being an 85% prospect that the funding would be available in two 
months. In other words, I think it is more likely than not Mr M wouldnt have invested but for 
what the MD said. I think it is unlikely the adviser could make any comment about the 85% 
figure provided by the MD. 
Mr M wasnt looking to invest a further amount in the EIS and only did so because he was 
approached by the MD who then provided information that I dont think he should have done 
which information Mr M relied upon when deciding to invest. The involvement of the adviser 
doesnt change this.
The ombudsman has missed the point that was being made about the MD saying he 
wouldnt have provided the 85% figure.Fish Financial suggest that it is only if the MD had been aware that Mr M was relying only on 
the 85% figure that he would have warned him he shouldnt do so and should take time to 
reflect on the pros and cons of investing. 
I think it is more likely than not the MD provided the 85% figure knowing that Mr M would rely 
on this when deciding to invest and if he know didnt then he should have done. I think it was 
obvious from the fact that Mr M asked the question in the first place that he would rely on 
what the MD said in response. If the figure wasnt one that the MD thought Mr M should rely 
on then he shouldnt have provided it in the first place. 
It is always possible to give a probability figure and it is incomprehensible that the 
ombudsman thinks a probability figure shouldnt be provided when a client has 
requested this.
I dont agree it is always appropriate to provide a figure simply because a client has 
requested one. It seems to me that a probability figure should only be provided at the 
request of a client if there is a proper basis for providing that figure in the first place. I think it 
is reasonable to tell a client that it isnt appropriate to put forward a figure for something that 
will or will not occur when there isnt enough evidence to provide a figure such as in this 
case.
The 85% assessment was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Fish Financial has provided various reasons that the 85% was a reasonable figure for the 
MD to provide, most of which I was already aware of and took account of when I made my 
provisional decision. 
These include that; the MD met with the CEO of Hidden Planet on a regular basis regarding 
funding; 14 PE/VC firms were interested with three having progressed to due diligence 
stage; Hidden Planet had received a couple of industry awards; business angel money had 
been secured pending lead PE/VC funder; the fact that an outside prospect had proceeded 
to deal finalisation week. 
Whether the funding would be available in the timescale was largely dependent on 
commercial decisions made by PE/VC firms. The MD had no way of knowing what decisions 
those firms might make. I think this is evidenced to some extent by the fact that the PE firm 
that proceeded to deal finalisation week - before withdrawing - was an outside prospect at 
the time the MD was discussing further investment with Mr M. In other words, the better 
prospects at the time of his discussions didnt come forward. I think this shows the difficulty 
in assessing the likelihood necessary funding will be available within specified timescales for 
new ventures such as Hidden Planet.
Nothing that Fish Financial has said persuades me that it was reasonable for the MD to put 
forward the figure of 85% for the £1 million funding being available in two months. I am not 
satisfied that the MD had any way of properly assessing the likelihood of this based on the 
information available to him. 
Putting things right
 Where the investment is liquid:- Pay Mr M the difference between the sale price and what he invested less any EIS 
related taxable benefits he has received from this investment.
- Pay Mr M simple interest at 8% each year on that difference from the date of 
investment until settlement to compensate him for being deprived of use of this 
money.
Where the investment is illiquid:
- Pay Mr M the amount he invested less any EIS related taxable benefits he has 
received from this investment.
- Pay Mr M simple interest at 8% each year on that net figure from the date of 
investment until settlement to compensate him for being deprived of use of this 
money.
- To prevent Mr M double benefiting from this complaint he should assign this 
shareholding to Fish Financial. If it isnt able to take over the shareholding then Mr M, 
if requested, has to provide it with an undertaking to pay it any future amount he 
receives from this investment.
I have noted what Mr M has said about Hidden Planet going through a CVA, but I think he 
should still assign the shares unless Fish Financial confirm it doesnt require him to do so.
Mr M has also pointed out that Fish Financial offered £250 for not providing the suitability 
report in good time. I said this was a reasonable amount in the circumstances. Mr M has 
said this hasnt been paid because it was offered in full and final settlement of the complaint, 
so Fish Financial should now pay this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out. Fish Financial Ltd must calculate and 
pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman