DRN-4036144
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to assist him recovering a payment 
hed sent in error from his bank account with another provider.
What happened
Mr S says in late April 2022 he intended to make an online  payment of £3,700 to his sons 
bank account but in error he selected another saved payee. Mr S says he has poor eyesight 
and must have simply clicked on the next payee. Mr S says he contacted his bank from 
where the payment was made and it commenced a recall of the payment with Barclays, but 
the recall wasnt successful. Mr S says he made a number of calls to both his bank and 
Barclays to help him, but Barclays simply wrote to him in September 2022 saying it had been 
unable to obtain the necessary authority to return the payment. 
Mr S says he cant understand how the payment has ended up being put into an account of 
a corporate customer with Barclays, when hed only ever made payments to this saved bank 
account on his online banking app, for a finance facility he held with part of Barclays group in 
the past. Mr S says he doesnt feel Barclays have done enough to help him recover the 
monies he sent to one of its customers and wants them to return the monies to him. 
Barclays says it has attempted to obtain the authority of the account holder where these 
monies were sent by Mr S, but it hasnt received the authority needed to return the funds. 
Barclays says Mr S should go back to his own bank to initiate a formal payment recall. 
Barclays offered Mr S £100 for the time it took to deal with his complaint. Mr S wasnt happy 
with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Barclays havent made an error and the payment sent by Mr S went 
directly to a third -party bank account and not an internal bank account of Barclays as 
originally thought. The investigator explained as this payment had been made to a saved 
payee on Mr Ss banking app, the payment wouldnt have gone through the name checking 
process and the payment would only reject if it didnt match a sort code and account number 
of a valid Barclays account  but it did here. 
The investigator says Mr Ss bank had attempted a recall of the payment to Barclays but 
without the consent of the third party, Barclays are unable to return the funds. The 
investigator suggested Mr S should now seek legal advice. Mr S didnt agree with the 
investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I was sorry to hear of the problems Mr S has faced recently and this must be a difficult time 
for him. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays have provided sufficient 
support to Mr S in his attempts to recall a payment he sent in error. Mr Ss complaint centres 
around the fact he unfortunately sent a payment intended for his sons bank account to 
another saved payee in his banking app, and neither his own bank nor Barclays have been 
able to retrieve the funds for him. 
I do sympathise with Mr Ss situation that a simple keying mistake on his app meant the 
funds he intended to be sent to his sons bank account went to another saved payee in his 
banking app. Here the payees banking details he inadvertently sent the payment to, was that 
of a corporate client of Barclays and not an associate business of Barclays as he thought 
initially  while its not totally clear whether this account had been redesignated by Barclays 
since he last sent a payment there, unfortunately Barclays would be permitted to re- use 
old/closed or dormant account numbers if it so wished. 
From the information I have seen Mr Ss own bank have exhausted the payment recall 
process. Barclays in turn have attempted to contact its customer but havent been able to 
obtain that customers authority to return the payment and without this sadly, Barclays 
wouldnt be able to simply debit its customer bank account. This seems to have been made 
more complicated by the fact the recipient is overseas. 
In these circumstances all I can ask of Barclays, as it hasnt made a mistake, is to approach 
its customer to ask to return the funds and it has done that here, sadly without success. I 
understand Mr S has the details of the recipient and his bank have made clear this can only 
be used via the appointment of his solicitors, which seems the only route forward here given 
Barclays havent been able to get the authority it wants from its customer. 
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I will leave it with Mr S if he now wishes to 
accept Barclays offer of £100 for the time it took to deal with his complaint, other than that I 
wont be asking anymore of Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman