DRN-3737863
The complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund money she lost 
as part of an investment scam.
What happened
Ms N says that she heard of a company that I will call X, whilst watching a popular television 
show. She says she researched X and then provided her details to this company. She then 
was put in touch with someone who purported to be an advisor with X. This advisor, over 
time, convinced Ms N to make three transactions. These were as follows
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 08 March 2019 FXGlobe £5,049.09 £5,049.09
2 09 March 2019 FXGlobe £7,179.18 £12,228.27
3 28 March 2019 THECHANGE.IO £4,100.22 £16,328.49
Ms N subsequently tried to withdraw her funds and was unable to. She therefore raised her 
concerns with Santander on 30 March 2019. At this point Ms N did not want to raise a claim, 
as she still believed that she could get her funds returned from X. When these funds did not 
materialise, Ms N raised a claim with Santander. Santander declined to refund the above 
transactions.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint already they concluded that whilst 
Santander could have intervened earlier, the call that Ms N had on 26 March 2019 gave 
sufficient warning about the payments that she was making and she still chose to make the 
payment. Therefore, she didnt think that Santander intervening any earlier would have made 
a difference, as she felt that Ms N would still have continued to make the payments. Ms N 
did not agree with this and therefore her complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Ms N authorised the disputed payments she made. The payments were 
requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. 
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Ms N from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character.
In this instance I am satisfied that Santander should have intervened earlier than it did, 
because the first transaction was sufficiently out of character for Ms N that it should have 
prompted Santander to contact Ms N to query the payments.
But I dont think that had Santander done this, it would have altered Ms Ns decision to make 
the payments. Let me explain why. 
Santander does not have a copy of the call that it made with Ms N on 26 March 2019. We do 
though have the notes that were made about this call at the time. These notes suggest that 
the Ms N was strongly warned that the payment she was attempting to make was a scam 
and despite what appears to be a very strong warning, Ms N said she wanted her card 
unblocked so she could continue to make the payment. 
The note suggests that Ms N explained that she had done her own research she was 
satisfied that the company she was dealing with was genuine and that whilst she took on 
board what the advisor said, she still wanted to proceed. So overall Im not persuaded 
Santander could have done more to prevent the payments in dispute as even had it 
intervened earlier I dont think Ms N wouldve done anything differently. Ultimately Santander 
provided a meaningful warning and Ms N alleviated any concerns it had by explaining shed 
carried out her own research and was comfortable with her decision to pay and I think the 
same wouldve occurred had Santander intervened earlier than it did. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds after 
Ms N reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. 
However, in these circumstances, Ms N used her debit card to pay legitimate crypto 
exchanges, before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim for these card payments in these 
circumstances, because the companies she paid had provided the services as intended. It 
was X that scammed Ms N but she did not pay them directly and Santander could only have 
processed chargeback claims against the parties that received the payments (FX Globe and 
THECHANGE.IO). Therefore, I do not think Santander were under any obligation to raise a 
chargeback for Ms N either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms N, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman