DRN-2382256
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax, referred to as the business. 
What happened
In July 2001, Mr S took out a Stocks and Shares ISA (ISA), into which he invested £3,000, 
into the tracker fund. The investment went into negative equity shortly after he invested. 
In March 2010, Mr S closed the ISA, and transferred his money into a Cash ISA, and 
eventually received £3,837.54.
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
It didnt advise Mr S to invest in the ISA.
It called its customers about the ISA, but at the beginning of the conversation made 
clear that it wasnt giving advice. If any customer wanted advice, they were redirected 
to a financial adviser. 
The welcome letter and contract note provided also confirmed that Mr S wasnt given 
advice.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
On the face of the evidence shes unable to say that the business advised Mr S to 
invest in the ISA.
It was up to him to ensure that the ISA was suitable for his circumstances, and not 
the business responsibility. 
Mr S was given clear, fair and non-misleading information that made clear the nature 
and operation of ISA.
A complaint concerning the performance of the ISA isnt something we can look at. 
The business isnt responsible for the performance of the stockmarket. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he made the following key points:
The business accepts that the ISA was offered to its customers as part of a savings 
review. 
At the time he was working on a freelance basis so wouldnt be paid if he didnt work 
so money was important for his future. 
Prior to his investment, he only invested in normal savings accounts and was an 
inexperienced investor who didnt even know the difference between a Stocks and 
Shares ISA and a Cash ISA. 
The risk of investing in the ISA wasnt explained to him. He doesnt think he fully 
understood that poor performance would affect his retirement income.  
The business shouldve exercised a duty of care towards its customers. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said:
She doesnt think that the business did anything wrong. 
She appreciates that Mr S didnt want to take a risk with his money, but it was a 
matter for him to ensure that the product was suitable for his circumstances. 
The ISA was offered to its customers on a non-advised basis, and not based on their 
individual circumstances. 
None of the usual documentation thats available when advice is given  such as a 
fact find, suitability letter or attitude to risk assessment  is available which would 
also suggest that no advice was given. 
The policy documentation provided made clear the difference between a Stocks and 
Shares ISA and a Cash ISA. It also made clear that the aim of the fund was to hold 
shares in the top 100 companies on the London Stock Exchange. 
The policy documentation also made clear that investments can go up, and down, 
depending on the performance of the stockmarket.   
The documentation also gave Mr S a 14-day cancellation period, within which he 
could cancel the investment if it wasnt for him.   
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
It wasnt right that the business was selling a product without making its customers 
aware of the risks involved. 
He assumed that he was offered the ISA, as an attractive product, why else would he 
have taken it? 
Whilst the business says this was a non-advised sale, so surely its sales pitch should 
be considered, and the business shouldve looked at individual customer 
circumstances. 
Hes held savings accounts and mortgages on several properties with the business 
since 1976, and so it wouldve been aware of his circumstances, and therefore 
known whether or not the ISA was suitable for him. 
The business maintains that this was a non-advised sale and in any case given the amount 
invested and the length of time Mr S was invested, theres nothing to say the ISA was 
unsuitable for him. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what Mr S says, Im unable to safely say that the business has done anything wrong. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ss 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, I think its more likely 
than not that the ISA was sold on a non-advised basis. In other words, I cant safely say that 
Mr S was specifically advised to invest in the ISA. 
I appreciate what Mr S says about the product being offered to him and other customers, as 
part of a savings review, but I understand that it was intended to keep customers informed 
about what was available, and that it was made clear that only information was being 
provided and not advice. Therefore, its likely that he chose to invest of his own volition, so, 
in the circumstances, its not possible for me to look into the suitability of this investment.
Ive seen no evidence from the point of sale that advice was either sought, or given, 
regarding the suitability of the ISA. Ive also not seen a suitability/recommendation letter or 
fact find that suggests advice was given. In this instance Im unable to conclude that the 
business has acted unreasonably in regard to the sale of the ISA. 
On balance Im also satisfied that the policy documentation  which is likely to have been 
supplied before Mr S agreed to proceed with the investment  was clear, fair and not 
misleading, particularly in relation to the general risk involved and that there were no 
guarantees about the level of return. 
I appreciate Mr S says he has no recollection of receiving the welcome letter and terms and 
conditions, but I think on balance, its more likely than not he received these. Its possible 
that 18 years on Mr S has forgotten about receiving these documents. 
I agree with the investigator that the onus was on him to make sure the ISA was suitable for 
his circumstances. If he was unsure, he was entitled to seek financial advice or cancel the 
policy within the cancellation period. In the circumstances, in this instance Im afraid the 
business wasnt obliged to look into his individual financial circumstances, even though hes 
been a customer since the late 70s. 
In conclusion, on balance Im satisfied that this was a non-advised sale, and notwithstanding 
the points made by Mr S, Im not persuaded the business has done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr S will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman