DRN-4319075
The complaint
Mr H complains, in his capacity as a beneficiary of his SIPP, that IPS Pensions Ltd is 
responsible for some or all of the delays he experienced in transferring cash in his SIPP to 
an investment platform.
Mr H has made a related complaint about a bank (which I will call Bank B). He considers the 
bank may also have some responsibility for the delays. He makes that other complaint in his 
capacity as a trustee of the SIPP rather than as a beneficiary.
This final decision sets out my findings in respect of IPS only. However, I hope all parties will 
understand why I have referred to Bank B in this decision about IPS.
What happened
At the beginning of April 2020, Mr H had a SIPP with IPS. That SIPP only contained cash, 
with most of the funds held in the SIPPs account with a different bank and the remainder in 
its Bank B bank account. The SIPP had previously held property, and up until 2018 rental 
income from the SIPPs property had been paid into its Bank B account.
Mr H told us that in April 2020, he gave instructions to his IFA to close the IPS SIPP and 
move the money it contained elsewhere. His instructions were not carried out for over a 
year, and he believes that IPS and Bank B may both hold some responsibility for the delay.
I have issued two provisional decisions on this complaint, the first in June 2023 and the 
second in August 2023. In my first provisional decision, I said:
I didnt know whether Mr H had suffered any financial losses as a result of the delay 
 but even if he had, I didnt think IPS had caused those losses. So I didnt think it 
would be fair for me to order IPS to make any contribution towards financial loss.
IPS did make some errors, and it should have been more proactive. But I thought the 
£500 it had already offered represented fair compensation for the errors it had made.
Both parties provided me with further evidence. Having considered that further evidence, 
which covered both alleged financial losses and fees, I issued a second provisional decision. 
In that second provisional decision, I said:
I was satisfied with IPSs explanation as to why it charged the fees Mr H mentioned. I 
thought it was unfortunate that a 2017 invoice wasnt paid until 2020  and I thought 
it was understandable that the delay had caused confusion to Mr H  but I was 
satisfied that all fees charged were due and correctly paid.
However, IPS had decided that it would like to refund £64.80 that it charged for an 
external account fee, on the basis that it believes there was a misunderstanding 
about that fee. In light of IPSs offer, I thought it was fair for IPS to pay a total of 
£564.80 in settlement of this complaint - £500 for distress and inconvenience, and 
the remainder as a fee refund.
IPS accepted my provisional findings, but Mr H did not. He said he didnt believe the large 
financial institutions involved were going to learn any lessons from this case, and as the 
victim he did not consider £500 represented fair compensation. He explained that when Id 
asked him for information about his financial loss, he thought I also believed that a more 
substantial compensation package would be fair  and so he is very disappointed with my 
revised findings. He asked me to reconsider, bearing in mind that the timescale to complete 
the transaction was totally unacceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I explained in my first provisional decision, I dont think IPS was the primary 
cause of the delays Mr H experienced. However, as IPS accepts, it could and should have 
been more proactive in resolving matters. I remain satisfied that it should pay compensation 
to Mr H to apologise for that lack of proactivity.  
Even if I am wrong about IPSs responsibility for the delay, I dont think the delay caused 
Mr H to suffer a financial loss. The evidence shows that most of the money in his SIPP had 
been transferred by September 2020, but he chose not to make any investments at that 
time. By the end of April 2021 Mr H had access to the money that had been held with 
Bank B, but he didnt choose to fully invest the cash in his SIPP until March 2022, almost a 
year later. In the circumstances, I dont think the delay in transferring Mr Hs SIPP was the 
reason he lost out on investment growth.
Putting things right
IPS should have been more proactive, and so I consider it should make a payment to 
apologise. But that payment is not based on IPS financial strength, on the number of 
employees it has, or on a desire to punish it. Instead, the award should reflect the impact of 
IPS mistakes on the complainant. 
Here, I think the impact of IPSs mistakes were that Mr H suffered some distress and 
inconvenience. IPS has already offered to pay Mr H £500 to apologise for its behaviour, and 
I remain satisfied that amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In light of the confusion over the external account fee, IPS is also willing to refund a fee of 
£64.80. I think that is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that IPS Pensions Ltd should pay Mr H £500 for distress and 
inconvenience. In addition, it should refund the £64.80 external account fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman