DRN-4107936
The complaint
Mr C has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that it turned down 
a claim under his home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim under his home emergency policy after his rented property had a 
problem with the central heating boiler. British Gas attempted to repair the boiler but 
unfortunately it couldnt fix it and so Mr C had to get a new boiler. 
Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he complained to British Gas. It explained that some of the 
parts were now obsolete and so it couldnt repair the boiler. British Gas had tried to repair 
the boiler and also got an engineer out who worked for the manufacturer of the boiler, but 
they were of the view that the boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). British Gas 
acknowledged its service could have been better and offered £230 by way of compensation. 
And it also offered to refund part of Mr Cs premium back to the date it last undertook a 
repair at the property and Mr C used the policy (about £298). But Mr C still wasnt happy, so 
he complained to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr C but didnt uphold his complaint. He was minded 
at one stage to partly uphold the complaint but eventually decided that British Gas had acted 
fairly in offering to pay compensation for the poor service provided and refunding some of Mr 
Cs premium.
As Mr C didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but Ill explain why.
Although I can understand Mr Cs position and why he feels his claim should be met I dont 
think British Gas have acted unfairly here. It made him aware previously that as his boiler 
was getting quite old and hadnt been manufactured for over 17 years that it may not be able 
to repair the boiler in future. And the policy makes it clear that as the boiler was over 10 
years old it wouldnt make a contribution if the boiler was unrepairable.
British Gas attended the rented house and tried to repair the boiler but couldnt due to the 
boilers age, previous repairs not succeeding and parts being obsolete. Indeed, it asked the 
original manufacturers own engineer to attend and it thought the boiler was BER. I 
understand that there has been a suggestion a number of parts could have been ordered 
that werent obsolete and may have helped the final repair of the boiler. However, British 
Gas has explained these parts wouldnt have got the boiler running as they were in relation 
to wet items as opposed to the electrical fault that was also affecting the boiler. 
British Gas also asked the manufacturer to resend an engineer in order to revisit the issue. 
However, when the engineer from British Gas tried to book a further appointment with Mr Cs 
tenant they didnt want to go ahead. I know Mr C has disputed this but given Mr C had 
arranged for the installation of a new boiler the following day this seems likely. I say this as 
his tenant had ongoing problems with the boiler, which was quite old, and obviously the 
installation of a new boiler would be more efficient and far less likely to breakdown.
Mr C seems to be suggesting that if British Gas simply replaced all the parts on the boiler 
then he would, in effect have a new boiler and could continue to use the old boiler. But I 
think this is far too simplistic a view and even though parts may be sourced elsewhere British 
Gas has its own reputable supply chain and I wouldnt expect it to step outside of this.
Given all of this I dont think British Gas has acted unfairly. Mr Cs boiler hadnt been in 
production for over 17 years and would clearly need to be replaced at some point soon. 
British Gas tried to repair it and has outlined that some of the parts are obsolete which it 
warned Mr C about earlier. And it has gone on to refund the premiums he paid from the last 
time it attended and undertook repairs, so I think it has acted fairly here.
Turning to the remaining issues, which appear to be mainly resolved, I agree British Gas 
couldve dealt with the claim better and there were a number of appointments which caused 
inconvenience. But its offer of £230 compensation seems fair so Im not asking it to do 
anymore here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman