DRN-3045016
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs H complain that Al Rayan Bank PLC unfairly retained the £500 administration 
fee that they paid despite them backing out of the proposed purchase a day or so after they 
paid the money. They would like the fee refunded.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs H were first time buyers and saw a property they liked and approached Al 
Rayan about a potential Home Purchase Plan. They had a discussion with the bank in June 
2020 and again in August. In the second discussion, they completed an application and paid 
the £500 fee and a valuation fee. The following day Mr M and Mrs H said that they wanted to 
pause the deal. Al Rayan agreed to refund the valuation fee but not the administration fee 
which it agreed to hold for a period pending Mr M and Mrs H coming back with an alternative 
deal. But because of the house market heating up, Mr M and Mrs H couldnt find an 
alternative suitable property and Al Ryan wouldnt refund the fee. I understand that Mr M and 
Mrs H subsequently found another property to buy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Al Rayan had 
made it clear that the fee was non- refundable except in specific circumstances which didnt 
apply in this case. Mr M and Mrs H disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Al Rayan offered to process Mr M and Mrs Hs application for a mortgage for which it would 
charge a fee. Ive listened to phone calls of June and August and its clear what that fee is, 
what its for and that its non-refundable. That was the basis on which Al Rayan offered to 
process the application and Mr M and Mrs H accepted those terms. But in this case, Mr M 
and Mrs H had second thoughts about their purchase. They wanted their money back, but Al 
Rayan says it doesnt have to do so and Mr M and Mrs H say thats unfair as they halted the 
process before Al Rayan did substantial work on the application.
It seems to me that Mr M and Mrs H and Al Rayan had an agreement that they should stick 
by. Both parties knew what the fee was. Mr M was told that it was non-refundable and that it 
wasnt due to be paid back except in specific circumstances which dont apply here. For 
paying the fee Mr M and Mrs H should expect a service from Al Rayan which it was willing to 
provide. Mr M and Mrs H then decided it didnt want to continue with that service. But as the 
fee was non-refundable, they would know that Al Rayan didnt have to return the fee.
I accept that Mr M and Mrs H didnt get a mortgage offer as they didnt want one. On the 
other hand, Al Rayan did undertake the work I would expect the bank to have done at the 
stage Mr M and Mrs H decided not to continue with their services. I can see that there were 
two phone calls with Mr M, advice was given, a Home Purchase Plan proposed, an 
application form completed, and a Keyfacts Financial Information Statement was compiled. 
Thats commercial work and a business would expect to be paid a fee for it. 
In this case, Al Rayan agreed to charge £500 for all its administration whether that was a 
lengthy process or in this case a shortened process. There was no provision in the 
agreement for the fee to be determined by the length of the process. There was no provision 
for a smaller fee to be payable if the process was short or a higher fee if it was prolonged. 
There was no provision for the fee to be rolled over to another property if Mr M and Mrs H 
were unhappy with the existing proposal. It seems that as a gesture of goodwill Al Rayan 
were willing to do that for a limited period, but the agreement didnt require the bank to do 
so. There was a provision for a refund if Al Rayan declined the application through no fault of 
the applicants. But that circumstance didnt apply here. As the circumstances when the 
refund would be made should have been clear to Mr M and Mrs H, I dont believe that the 
interests of fairness require Al Rayan to explain its reasoning behind that policy. 
Both parties should have known where they stood, and I consider that to be fair. £500 was 
what the parties agreed to and so I dont see that I can fairly ask Al Rayan to refund that fee. 
On that basis, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman