DRN-2323978
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc didnt extend his mortgage offer when it initially said it 
would.
 
What happened
Mr N applied for an additional loan on his mortgage and was issued with a mortgage offer on 
18 October 2019 which was valid until 31 March 2020. The additional loan was for £156,786 
on an interest only basis and £90,200 on a repayment basis. Each part had an initial fixed 
rate of 1.99% until 2 January 2023. 
In January 2020, Mr N contacted Santander to ask for an extension to the mortgage offer as 
he was experiencing delays with getting planning permission for the intended works to his 
property. Santander agreed to the request and extended the deadline of the mortgage offer 
until 31 May 2020. 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr N experienced further delays so contacted Santander 
again to see if he could extend the mortgage offer. On more than one occasion Mr N was 
told that he would be eligible for a further two month extension  a standard extension 
Santander had put in place to support mortgage customers during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Santander later identified that because Mr N had already had an extension to his mortgage 
offer, he wouldnt be eligible for a further two month extension - it informed Mr N of this on 
21 May 2020. Mr N was given the options to either draw down the funds under the terms of 
the original mortgage offer before it expired, or to proceed with a new application. 
Mr N proceeded with a new application and was issued a mortgage offer on 28 May 2020. 
Due to an error with the previous application, where an incorrect valuation had been used, 
Mr Ns additional loan changed to £144,295 on an interest only basis and £104,800 on a 
repayment basis. This meant it would initially cost Mr N approximately £100 more each 
month. Unhappy with the situation Mr N complained.
Santander acknowledged it had given Mr N incorrect information about his eligibility for the 
further two month extension. It also recognised it had made an error with the initial 
application, by using an incorrect valuation, which meant a larger part of Mr Ns mortgage 
needed to be on a repayment basis  increasing his monthly payment. It paid Mr N a total of 
£500 compensation for the errors it made. Mr N remained unhappy and raised a complaint 
with our service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt Santander had fairly compensated Mr N 
for the errors it made. In summary, they didnt think it was unreasonable for Santander to 
limit the number of times a mortgage offer could be extended. They also felt it was fair for 
Santander to rectify its error with the valuation, ensuring the new mortgage offer was in line 
with its lending criteria. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He didnt feel the £500 offered was 
adequate, as it would only amount to a small proportion of the increased payments he now 
had to make under the new agreement. He also felt he had no choice but to accept the new 
mortgage offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At times a lender may agree to extend the expiry date of a customers mortgage offer. This is 
not guaranteed or an obligation on the lender but is usually done on a concessionary basis, 
taking into consideration the individual circumstances of the request.  
Santander has acknowledged that it gave Mr N incorrect information about extending his 
mortgage offer for a second time because of Covid-19. It says that whilst an extension 
because of Covid-19 is possible, when it informed Mr N of this it hadnt taken into 
consideration that his mortgage offer had already been extended by two months. 
As a general principle Santander has said that it does allow a further two month extension to 
be applied to a mortgage offer. However, it wouldnt usually go beyond this point because it 
considers the information held for the original application to be out of date. I dont think this is 
an unreasonable stance when considering that Mr Ns initial extension to his mortgage offer 
meant it would have been seven months since he was first assessed and offered the 
mortgage  a further extension would have meant it had been nine months. 
A lot can change to a persons financial position in that time, and I think it reasonable and 
responsible that Santander would want a new application to be completed to ensure any 
applicant still meets its lending criteria. 
Mr N was given the options to either draw down the funds under the terms of the original 
mortgage offer before it expired, or to proceed with a new application. Mr N proceeded with 
a new application and was issued with a mortgage offer on 28 May 2020  which he has 
since accepted. 
During the new application Santander discovered it had made an error in the original 
application. It had used an incorrect property valuation to calculate how much Mr N could 
borrow on an interest only basis. It rectified this in the new application, and this meant Mr N 
had to borrow more money on a repayment basis  increasing his contractual monthly 
payment. 
I can appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr N, but I dont think Santander has 
done anything wrong by correcting its mistake. Santander was willing to proceed on the 
terms of the original mortgage offer  as long as it completed on time  but ultimately that 
offer was something Mr N would never have been eligible for. It would therefore be unfair to 
say that Santander should honour a previous mistake when completing a new mortgage 
application. 
I understand that Mr N is disappointed that he now must make a higher contractual monthly 
payment to his mortgage, but I dont think this will adversely impact him in the long run. I say 
this because whilst the initial cost is more expensive, Mr N will be making more payments 
towards the outstanding capital balance on a repayment basis  meaning he will be charged 
less interest over the term of the mortgage.
Mr N has also said he felt he had no choice but to accept the new mortgage offer. Whilst I 
can understand why Mr N felt this, I dont agree this was his only option. Santander was 
willing to proceed with the original offer whilst it was available, and Mr N always had the option of exploring other lenders. Ultimately, it was his own choice to accept the new 
mortgage offer.
However, Santander has made errors when dealing with Mr N. Its given him incorrect 
information about extending his mortgage offer and made mistakes with his application, 
affecting the structure of his borrowing. Where Santander has made an error, I would expect 
it to compensate Mr N for any distress and inconvenience caused. I think Santander has 
done this by paying Mr N £500 compensation  which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I understand that Mr N doesnt feel this compensation is adequate as it only amounts to a 
small proportion of the increased monthly payment he now makes under the new 
agreement. As explained, I dont think Mr N has lost out by having to pay an increased 
monthly payment and I think the £500 is to compensate Mr N for the distress an 
inconvenience caused, not the difference in monthly payments.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Santander UK Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman