DRN-3457520
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim they made under their 
home insurance policy for a problem with their drainage system.
Mrs W has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to her only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs W got in touch with AXA after she found the septic tank was overflowing.
AXA appointed a drainage company, D, to inspect the tank. D said the cause of the 
problem was wear and tear to the soakaway. It declined the claim.
Mrs W complained but AXA maintained the claim had been fairly declined.
Our investigator thought AXA had acted unfairly. He recommended it accept the 
claim and pay compensation. He said the evidence showed the soakaway had 
collapsed, which was a sudden problem, rather than a sign of wear and tear.
AXA disagreed. It wasnt persuaded the soakaway had collapsed. Both parties 
provided further evidence, but an agreement couldnt be reached. As a result, the 
case has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main problem was with the soakaway. It wasnt functioning properly, so rather 
than draining waste water from the septic tank into the ground, the water was 
overflowing out into the garden. There was also damage identified to the septic tank 
lid.
The policy provides cover for, amongst other things, accidental damage to 
underground tanks.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as: visible damage which happens 
suddenly and has not been caused on purpose or inevitably. I dont think that 
definition is unreasonable or out of line with the cover provided by other insurers.
I dont think theres any doubt the damage is visible and theres no suggestion its 
been caused on purpose. In summary, AXA says the damage didnt happen 
suddenly  it was more of a gradual wear and tear problem  and thats why it 
declined the claim.
Ds report is limited but it does confirm the septic tank itself was functioning with the 
relevant pipework in place. It said the soakaway, which took the form of a secondary 
tank, was in poor condition, no longer functioning, and filling up frequently.
I understand Mrs W had the septic tank emptied around six weeks prior to the 
inspection and it was full again, which is far quicker than usual with a fully functioning 
soakaway. D thought this was a sign of gradual wear and tear.
Mrs W said something had been put on the top of the tank, causing the damage to 
the lid. As a result, the soakaway had collapsed, and it was full of soil. She thought 
that showed the problem was sudden  and not a sign of gradual wear and tear.
After the claim was declined, she got in touch with a local contractor to resolve the 
problem. Theyve provided an estimate which says, works carried out to fix collapsed 
soakaway system, but no further explanation about the damage or its cause is 
included.
Ive looked at the photos provided by both parties. I cant see anything to show the 
soakaway has collapsed. The photos show the lid remaining in place, but with a 
small piece missing. Whilst this means its possible for some soil or debris to get in 
through that hole, the amount which could do so is limited. Ive also seen photos from 
within the tank, which dont show a significant build up of debris.
Taking all of the evidence into account, Im not satisfied its been shown there was a 
sudden collapse which caused the soakaway to stop functioning.
I bear in mind that its very common for soakaways to gradually become blocked or to 
function less efficiently over time. So unless evidence is provided to show a reason 
why the soakaway would suddenly stop working, on balance Im persuaded its likely 
to have been a gradual problem.
The damage to the lid itself could have been sudden, even if the soakaway problem 
wasnt. However, I havent seen any evidence to explain how or when the lid was 
likely to have been damaged. So, as it stands, Im not persuaded it was likely to have 
been damaged suddenly.
As Im not satisfied its been shown any of the damage was caused suddenly, it 
doesnt meet the definition of accidental damage in the policy. Because of that, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs W responded to say she had further evidence of accidental damage. Before she knew 
the tank structure was part of the drainage system, shed built a chicken coop on top of it. 
Once she knew what it was, she moved the coop for the health of the chickens.Its unclear when this happened, what damage this may have caused  and whether any 
damage amounts to accidental damage as defined in the policy. Whilst its possible the 
coop could have damaged the tank in a way thats covered by the policy, Im not satisfied the 
available evidence shows thats likely to be what happened.
Neither party has commented on my provisional findings that the damage didnt meet the 
definition of accidental damage in the policy based on the available evidence. And Im not 
persuaded Mrs Ws response changes that position. So I remain satisfied its fair for AXA to 
decline the claim.
If Mrs W has further evidence to show how the damage was caused, shes entitled to share 
that AXA. And Id expect AXA to consider anything she provides.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman