DRN-1455480
 
The complaint
Miss K complains she was told the car she was financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services, 
was MOTd shortly before she collected it. She also says she should have received a 
government discount voucher and that the dealership breached data protection regulations.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss K acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The MOT
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented. If Miss K was told something that was wrong, and that led her to enter into 
an agreement that she would not have entered into had it not been for that 
misrepresentation, then Id think VWFS needed to take some further action.
I understand that Miss K believes she was informed that a MOT was completed shortly 
before she took receipt of the car. But, whilst I dont dispute Miss K was under the 
impression that was the case, I dont think thats what the dealership had meant, and I am 
not persuaded they deliberately mislead Miss K.
I think that because:
The dealership would not have been able to carry out a MOT when the agreement 
was signed in May 2018 as a MOT can only be completed a month before it expires, 
and records show that the MOT on Miss Ks car didnt expire until October 2018.
I think the confirmation of cover letter was to confirm that Miss K was covered for the 
cost of any MOT that was due within the next year. I dont think this cover note was 
confirmation the car had been MOTd at the point the car was collected.
The government discount voucher
This isnt something that is covered under this finance agreement and its not something that 
I think it would be fair to hold VWFS responsible for. Im not persuaded it formed part of the 
negotiations for the car as it appears Miss K subsequently became aware of the potential 
discount regarding the Ultra Low Emissions Zone changes. 
Breaches of data protection
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) are the appropriate body to consider breaches 
of data protection legislation. But we can consider the impact any breach of data protection 
has had on a consumer and whether its appropriate for a business to compensate a 
consumer for that. 
Miss K is complaining about breaches the dealership may have made of other peoples data. 
She isnt complaining about breaches of her own data so theres been no loss or impact on 
her and its not something I therefore think I can fairly consider against VWFS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman