DRN-2587371
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Ltd arranged for repairs to his car before 
confirming what damage was covered by his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M noticed that the rear lights on his car werent working and that his 
rear bumper was damaged. He believed someone must have hit his car while it was parked, 
so he contacted his insurer.
Admiral agreed to send the car to its approved repairer and provide Mr M with a courtesy 
car. The repairer found that the fault with the rear lights wasnt connected to the bumper 
damage. Because this appeared to be an existing fault, Admiral told Mr M that it wouldnt 
cover the cost of repairs to the lights.
Mr M disagreed with this. He explained that the lights were working before the damage to 
the bumper, so it seemed obvious that the fault must have been caused at the same time the 
bumper was damaged. Admiral agreed to have an independent assessor examine the car.
The independent assessors findings were the same as the repairers  the fault with the light 
wasnt related to the bumper damage. The repairers fixed the bumper but didnt fix the lights. 
Mr M collected his car, paid the £550 excess on his policy, and had another garage repair 
his cars rear lights.
Mr M accepted that his policy didnt cover repairs to the lights but is unhappy that Admiral 
went ahead with repairs to the bumper before it told him the independent assessors 
findings. He felt this didnt give him the chance to decide what to do. He says he wouldnt 
have made a claim on his insurance if it wasnt going to cover the repairs to the lights. And 
hes unhappy Admiral charged him the excess on his policy for only fixing the bumper.
Admiral said Mr M didnt explicitly say that he didnt want the repairs to go ahead if the lights 
werent covered by his policy. It didnt agree with Mr M that its communications about this 
had been unclear. As such, it says it acted reasonably and applied his policy excess fairly.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Admiral had acted fairly and that its approved repairer told Mr M it was fixing the 
bumper. Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 January 2021. I said:
Mr Ms central complaint is that Admiral shouldnt have repaired his bumper before it had 
confirmed whether repairs to the rear lights were covered by his policy.
Ive looked very carefully at the sequence of events and listened to the calls sent to us by 
Admiral. I can summarise this as follows:
14 January. Mr M reported the damage to his bumper and lights to Admiral. During 
the call, he explained that the main problem was the non-working lights, and he 
wanted to know if his insurance policy covered this.
21 January. Admiral booked the car into its approved repairer.
24 January. The repairer reported that the fault with the cars lights wasnt related to 
the bumper damage.
27 January. Admirals agent called Mr M to explain that it wouldnt cover repairs to 
the lights. However, she agreed to get a quote for repairs to the lights and send this 
to Mr M via email.
28 January. The same agent called Mr M. She agreed to appoint an independent 
assessor to inspect the car and contact Mr M once she had received their report.
31 January 2020. Report by the independent assessor concluded: From the 
accident damage inspected along with the historic fault known with these lamps and 
also the MOT failure prior to this incident, we would advise the faulty rear lamps are 
not accident related and will therefore not be covered under this repair.
3 Feb. Report sent to Mr M. Admiral called him to tell him what it said. Mr M was 
unhappy with this but acknowledged the situation. He asked the Admiral agent what 
his options were. Later the same day, Admiral told Mr M that his bumper had already 
been fixed.
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably by rejecting Mr Ms 
claim for the lights. Mr Ms policy covers him for damage as a result of an accident. While I 
understand his argument that the fault with the lights must be related to the accident that 
damaged his bumper, the expert reports from the approved repairer and the independent 
assessor were clear that it wasnt. I understand that Mr M has, reluctantly, accepted this.
I agree with Admirals statement that Mr M didnt explicitly say that he didnt want the repairs 
to go ahead if the lights werent covered by his policy. But I dont think Mr M thought he 
needed to say that. In his first call on 14 January, he told Admiral the main problem was the 
rear lights and he wanted to know if he was covered for those repairs. This became the 
disputed issue and I dont think Mr M expected any repairs to go ahead before this key issue 
was resolved. I think this was a reasonable expectation and Ill explain why.
The two calls on 27 and 28 January are important here. Having listened to them, I can 
understand why Mr M thought repairs wouldnt be authorised before the independent 
assessor submitted his report.
During the call on 27 January, the Admiral advisor agreed to get a quote for the cost of 
repairs to the lights and send this to Mr M. On 28 January, the same agent explained that an 
independent assessor would inspect the car for two reasons: first, to see if the problem with 
the lights was related to the bumper damage; second, to understand the fault with the lights 
and get a more accurate idea of the cost to repair them. She told Mr M, as soon as I get 
that report I will touch base with you and make you fully aware of the outcome of that. 
Ive also looked at Admirals internal notes. Two separate notes on 27 January confirm 
Admiral was looking to get a quote for repairs to the lights: Can I get a cost for the lights 
pls; and I do want to discuss this further with the ph and also get some costs from IHE [in-
house engineer].
So Im satisfied that Admiral had agreed to provide a quote for repairs to the lights as well as 
have an independent assessor determine whether the fault was linked to the bumper 
damage. Given this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to think Admiral would contact 
him before any repairs were instructed. I think any reasonable person in Mr Ms situation wouldve believed Admiral would discuss the report and options if the lights werent covered 
before starting work on the car.
On balance, I agree with Mr M. I dont think Admiral should have instructed its repairers to fix 
the bumper before it discussed the independent assessors report or quote for the light 
repairs with him. At the very least, if Admiral intended to start work on the bumper it should 
have made this clear to Mr M. This would have allowed him to decide if he wanted this work 
to go ahead before the dispute about the rear lights was resolved.
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if Admiral hadnt made this error. Mr M says he 
wouldnt have made a claim on his insurance if it wasnt going to cover the repairs to the 
lights. Instead, he would have had both the bumper and the lights repaired himself. That 
might be true, but Im not currently persuaded it wouldve been a cheaper option.
Admiral has provided its repairers invoice which shows the repairs to the bumper cost 
£1,693.56. This was covered by Admiral, less Mr Ms £550 excess. Given this invoice, I find 
it unlikely that Mr M wouldve been able to have the bumper repaired independently for less 
than his excess.
Ive also considered the impact on Mr Ms policy. Mr M had 16 years protected no claims 
bonus. His policy says, Protected No Claims Bonus allows you to make up to 2 claims 
before your no claim bonus entitlement is reduced. So Mr Ms no claims bonus will not be 
affected by the bumper claim.
The policy says, in most instances a claim will lead to some increase in premium at 
renewal. So its likely that his premium at renewal will increase. However, I think its unlikely 
that any increase would be significant when set against the potential cost of repairing the 
bumper himself.
Taking all that into account, I dont think Mr M has suffered any financial loss from Admiral 
going ahead with the repairs. 
Mr M says he wants Admiral to refund his excess. However, for the reasons Ive set out 
above Im not going to require Admiral to refund this. 
But Ive no doubt that Admirals poor communication caused Mr M some distress. He was 
told he would have to pay the policy excess for the bumper repair before he was given a 
chance to consider his options, collect a car that was not fully repaired, and arrange for his 
own repairs to the lights without knowing how much this might cost. I think Admiral should 
pay Mr M £150 for the distress its poor communication caused him. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M said he was happy with my assessment of his complaint but asked me to reconsider 
my finding about the cost of repairs to the bumper. He said he could have had this fixed for 
something around £150. He also suggested a fair compensation award would be £400.
Admiral said:
It didnt fully agree that it made an error carrying out the repairs, however on review it 
could appreciate Mr Ms thought process. 
Given the bumper repairs cost over £1,600 and Mr Ms excess was £550, it made no 
financial sense for him to get the bumper and lights fixed outside of insurance. 
It was satisfied Mr M was fully aware the repairs were being done and his excess 
was payable.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr M and Admiral commented on the cost of repairing the bumper, so Ill start there.
I dont think the parties have provided any new information on this point. The cost of 
repairing just the bumper was £1,693.56. Mr M says he could have had the same work done 
for £150 but hasnt provided any evidence to show this. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
think its unlikely he wouldve been able to have the bumper repaired independently for less 
than his £550 excess. So, even taking into account the potential increase to his premium, I 
dont think he suffered any financial loss from Admiral going ahead with the repairs.
Id already considered Admirals other points in my provisional decision. Given it hasnt 
provided any new information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Mr M has suggested I increase my award to £400. Ive thought carefully about this but, given 
the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that an award of £150 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. I require Admiral Insurance Company Ltd to pay Mr M £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman