DRN-4064528
The complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is about a claim she made against her former employers Markel 
International Insurance Company Limited commercial insurance policy.
Mrs D says Markel unfairly declined that claim. 
What happened
The complaint that was brought to this Service by Mrs D was in relation to a claim she made 
against her former employers commercial insurance policy, pursuant to the Third Parties 
(Rights against Insurers) Act 2010. 
The claim was in relation to an award shed obtained against her former employer in the 
Employment Tribunal. The former employer entered into creditors voluntary liquidation 
shortly before the Order was obtained. The Third Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010 
allows Mrs B to make a claim on behalf of her former employer in these circumstances.
Markel initially said that Mrs D wasnt eligible to claim on the former employers policy, so 
Mrs D complained to this Service. The investigator who considered that complaint expressed 
the view that she was eligible to claim on the policy. Markel subsequently accepted this and 
agreed to consider the claim as if it had been made by Mrs Ds former employer. Having 
done so, they then went on to reject it for a number of reasons, including:
Their policyholder (Mrs Ds former employer) didnt notify them of Mrs Ds claim during 
the time they were on cover and solvent and this was in breach of the policy terms;
Their policyholder didnt contact Markels legal advice line when Mrs Ds claim was 
made;
The fact that the claim was notified so late by Mrs D meant they were prejudiced 
because they couldnt determine whether it was one they would have provided cover for;
Their obligation to provide any cover at all would have ended when their policyholder 
went into liquidation.
Mrs D didnt agree with Markels position so asked us to consider whether theyd fairly 
declined the claim. Another investigator considered her complaint and determined that it 
should be upheld. He thought that the reasons given by Markel to turn down cover werent 
valid and that the issue of prejudice could be circumvented by directing Markel to now 
assess the claim under their policyholders terms. This would allow Markel to determine 
whether the claim was one they would accept. Accordingly, the investigator directed that 
Markel do the following:
Instruct a Solicitor or Barrister to advise on the policyholders prospects of successfully 
defending a claim against Mrs D to ascertain whether cover would have been provided 
for the claim at all.
The Solicitor or Barrister should be provided with those documents that would have been 
available in September/October 2020. If Markel doesnt have any of those documents, 
Mrs D can supply them.
The Solicitor or Barrister should not be advised of the outcome of the claim.
The Solicitor or Barrister should also be advised not to do their own research on the 
case.
If the assessment shows the Solicitor or Barrister believes the policyholder did have
reasonable prospects of defending the claim, Markel should pay Mrs Ds claim.
If the assessment shows the Solicitor or Barrister believes the policyholder did not have 
reasonable prospects of defending the claim, Markel is entitled to decline the claim made 
by Mrs D in place of their policyholder.
Markel didnt accept the investigators view to start with. They disputed the policyholders 
entitlement to cover based on its failure to contact their legal advice line when Mrs Ds claim 
was made. Our investigator considered this further and took the view that the term in relation 
to this was inconsistent with another term in the policy, which suggested that a policyholder 
wasnt obliged to contact the legal helpline. Where policy terms are ambiguous, its our usual 
approach to interpret them in favour of the party who didnt draft them. Because of this, the 
investigator said Markel wasnt entitled to apply them to decline cover.
The investigator also put some further points to Markel that Mrs D had made and expressed 
a view on them as follows:
The Solicitor or Barrister to be instructed by Markel should be an employment specialist.
Mrs D should be able to see the instructions to the Solicitor or Barrister before they go 
out because shes the only person who has first-hand knowledge of the facts of the 
underlying case. As such its reasonable for her to be involved so that the person 
instructed has an accurate picture of the facts. The purpose of the assessment is 
however for the person instructed to draw conclusions about the merits of former 
employers case so the instructions should be neutral and confined to the facts. The 
instructions should not be used as an opportunity for either party to advocate in either 
direction.
Mrs D and Markel should agree on what documents should be sent to the person 
instructed to advise on the merits of the former employers claim. 
The advice received should be disclosed to Mrs D by Markel.
Markel agreed with the investigators further view and recommendations. They said they 
would instruct their panel firm to consider the claim accordingly. The only remaining issue in 
dispute between the parties relates to this specific issue. Mrs D doesnt think the panel firm 
is impartial and as such would like an independent Barrister to be instructed. Markel, on the 
other hand say that if things had happened as they should have, they would have instructed 
their panel firm, as they propose to do here, and so are unprepared to instruct anyone else. 
Our investigator said the position Markel has adopted is reasonable. Mrs D doesnt agree. 
Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I take the view that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld in accordance with 
the investigators final recommendations. Ive explained why below.
Given the agreements reached between the parties, I dont propose to revisit the initial 
complaint made by Mrs D save to endorse the position theyve reached so far as what needs to happen for Markel to determine whether this is a claim they are prepared to pay. 
Mrs D has asked for me to determine whether her claim should be paid by Markel but thats 
not a decision I can make. The outcome of that will depend on the assessment carried out 
by the Solicitor or Barrister instructed by Markel in the manner the investigator has set out. 
The only issue left for me to decide is whether Markel are entitled to instruct their panel firm 
or whether someone else should be instructed. Mrs D has made a number of submissions 
on this issue which Ive summarised as follows:
The panel firm is connected to Markel and is not independent. Shes provided a link from 
the panel firms website which she feels supports this.
The panel firm were likely to have been involved in advising Markel throughout her 
complaint to them which means theres a conflict of interest that excludes them from 
advising on this claim.
The panel firm are likely to assess the claim in Markels favour so the professional 
instructed by them should be independent. Mrs D has suggested a Barrister that can 
consider the matter.
The policy terms say that if her former employer had made the claim themselves against 
their policy, they would have been entitled to a legal opinion from their own 
representative so she should also be entitled to this now.
Ive considered what both parties have said and in particular Mrs Ds strength of feeling on 
this issue, but I dont agree that Markel arent entitled to instruct their panel firm. If things had 
progressed as they should have and their policyholder had made a claim against their policy 
before going into liquidation and when the claim was made by Mrs D, Markel would have 
instructed their panel firm to consider the merits of the claim.
The panel firm are independent professionals with their own Codes of Conduct and 
professional standards. They have their own regulator and complaints procedure. So whilst 
there might be a connection between the corporate entities between Markel and the panel 
firm, this doesnt in itself prevent those Solicitors from providing independent legal advice- as 
theyre obliged to do. And theres nothing that Ive seen that suggests the panel firm arent 
able to do that.
Mrs D has cited a conflict of interest on the basis that the panel firm may well have advised 
Markel in relation to her complaint against them. I dont know if the panel firm provided 
Markel with any advice in relation to this issue and I dont in any event think its material. 
Thats because the issue theyd be being asked to advise upon would be whether a claim by 
Markels former policyholder would have had reasonable prospects of success based on an 
agreed set of papers. That is a separate legal issue. I dont consider there to be a conflict of 
interest because Mrs D is not Markels policyholder- her former employer is, and the 
question is whether they were entitled to cover. I appreciate this will go on to determine 
whether Mrs D's claim is payable, but I dont think the connection is close enough to mean 
theres a conflict of interest. I say so because the investigator has made clear that the 
Solicitor or Barrister instructed should not be advised of the outcome of the claim Mrs D 
made at Tribunal or to do their own research on the case. I think this goes far enough to 
protect Mrs Ds position, even if Markel had taken advice from the panel firm in respect of 
the complaint shed made against them.
I dont agree with Mrs D that the policy terms between Markel and Mrs Ds former employer 
gave them freedom to choose their own representative. Rather they require their policyholders claims to have reasonable prospects of success before theyll agree to fund 
any claims on their behalf. It is of course open to policyholders, as it is to Mrs D, to obtain 
their own opinion at their own cost, should they wish to do so. But at this stage I cant say 
that Markel should be responsible for those costs. They would after all be doing the same 
thing they would have done had their policyholder made a claim on their policy at the correct 
time by instructing their panel firm to assess the strength of that claim. As Markel would 
ultimately be the ones to pick up the costs of that claim, its entirely reasonable that they 
should be able to choose who they instruct to consider this. 
Finally, I know Mrs D has made some submissions about the documents she wants made 
available to the Solicitor or Barrister considering the claim. As the issue has yet to be 
discussed between the parties, its not something I intend to comment on as its not a live 
dispute that requires determination. I do however encourage the parties to reach agreement 
on this matter for the sake of expediency. To assist Ive set out and endorsed the 
investigators original findings on this issue below, which, on the whole, were accepted by 
both parties.
Putting things right
To put things right, Markel should do the following:
Instruct a Solicitor or Barrister of their choice to advise on the policyholders prospects of 
successfully defending a claim against Mrs D to ascertain whether cover would have 
been provided for the claim at all.
The Solicitor or Barrister should be an employment specialist.
The Solicitor or Barrister should be provided with those documents that would have been 
available in September/October 2020. If Markel doesnt have any of those documents, 
Mrs D can supply them. Mrs D and Markel should agree on what documents should be 
sent to the person instructed to advise on the merits of the former employers claim 
provided they fall into the category of documents that were available in 
September/October 2020.
Mrs D should be able to see the instructions to the Solicitor and Barrister before they go 
out because shes the only person who has first-hand knowledge of the facts of the 
underlying case. So its reasonable for her to be involved so that the person instructed 
has an accurate picture of the facts. The purpose of the assessment is however for the 
person instructed to draw conclusions about the merits of former employers case so the 
instructions should be neutral and confined to the facts. They should not be used as an 
opportunity to advocate in either direction.
The Solicitor or Barrister should not be advised of the outcome of the claim
The Solicitor or Barrister should be advised not to do their own research on the case.
If the assessment shows the Solicitor or Barrister believes the policyholder did have
reasonable prospects of defending the claim, Markel should pay Mrs Ds claim.
If the assessment shows the Solicitor or Barrister believes the policyholder did not have 
reasonable prospects of defending the claim, Markel would have been entitled to decline 
the claim made by Mrs D in place of their policyholder.
The advice received should be disclosed to Mrs D by Markel.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Markel International 
Insurance Company Limited and direct them put things right in the way Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman