DRN-4364639
The complaint
Ms O complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) handled her 
request for a refund in respect of a holiday she paid for with her NatWest credit card.
What happened
In June 2022 Ms O bought a combination of flights, accommodation and transfers from a 
supplier Ill call B at a cost of £898. She paid B using her NatWest credit card. The holiday 
was due to take place between 17 July 2022 and 24 July 2022. 
Ms O said that in early July 2022 she spoke with a representative of B and was told one of 
her flights had been cancelled. She said B told her it could not offer an alternative flight at 
the same airport for the same price and the only alternative was a flight from another airport 
far away from where she lives. Ms O said B told her that if she wanted a refund, she would 
need to put a cancellation request in writing. 
Ms O said she did this on the same day she spoke with B but didnt receive a refund. Having 
not heard from B, Ms O asked NatWest to step in and help. 
NatWest said it couldnt help Ms O. It said she hadnt provided enough evidence that her 
flight was cancelled so it didnt think it could recover the money from B via a process known 
as chargeback. 
Dissatisfied, Ms O referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator didnt think NatWest had treated Ms O unfairly. She didnt think the 
evidence supported a conclusion that B cancelled Ms Os holiday. So, she didnt think a 
chargeback or a claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 would have succeeded.
Ms O disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
I contacted NatWest in September 2023. I explained that it appeared to me, on the balance 
of probabilities, that Ms O had been told her flight was cancelled and was acting on the 
instruction of B when she emailed her cancellation request to it in July 2022. I asked it to 
consider its liability to Ms O under section 75 as it appeared B was contractually obliged to 
provide a refund in circumstances where the holiday could not be provided. 
NatWest said it still didnt think there was enough evidence of breach of contract. It said:
The S75 process is not a balance of probabilities its not a case of what is or isnt 
probable its a case what is proven. The customer has not proven they are due a 
refund under the terms and conditions or it was cancelled due to a misrepresentation 
of those terms. Theres no doubt if the flights were or were not cancelled, its a case 
of the customer needs to prove that they misrepresented the chance of a refund for 
the flights.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of NatWest and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it handled Ms Os request for help in getting her money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
Section 75
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. So, given her claim here, for me to 
find that NatWest should have refunded the cost of the flights to Ms O, Id need to be 
satisfied that there has been a breach of contract by B.
My starting point is therefore the terms of the contract between Ms O and B. This set out the 
following about what should happen if B was unable to supply the contracted services to Ms 
O:
5. Cancellation by Us
We may cancel the event(*) or any part of it:
for safety reasons if we or our supplier(s) regard adverse weather conditions or other 
safety concerns as unacceptable and which cannot reasonably be overcome; If we 
reasonably believe that you may cause harm or damage to our reputation or to the 
reputation of our suppliers or to property belonging to our suppliers; If a supplier or 
suppliers are unable to host the event for any reason; If changes you wish to make to 
the booking mean it is uneconomical or impractical to hold the event. If we cancel the 
whole of the event, we shall use our best endeavours to rearrange the event on a 
mutually convenient date or provide a refund to you of the cost to us of the event. 
Save as above we shall be under no further liability to you for cancellation of the 
event or any part of it
7. Failure to provide an event
If, due to reasons beyond our control, an event is unable to take place due to (but 
without limitation); closure of premises, the ceases of trading, a change in supplier 
management, weather restrictions, we will provide you and your group with an 
alternative event and if this is does not prove possible, a refund to you of the cost to 
us of the event
*event is defined within the terms as any holiday, accommodation, activity or 
function organised or advertised by (b). Given Ms O booked a combination of flights, 
accommodation and transfers, event in this case would appear to mean the holiday 
as a whole. I note that when setting out the refund, both clauses refer to the cost to (B) of the event. 
There is no further explanation of what the cost to B of the event would in the terms. In the 
absence of such, and on the reasonable assumption that part of Bs role as agent was to 
pass on the money Miss O paid it to the relevant suppliers, I find a reasonable interpretation 
of cost to B to be the sum that Ms O paid to B.  
I have therefore considered whether the circumstances of Ms Os complaint meant that B 
had either cancelled or failed to provide her holiday. If this was the case, it appears that B 
was contractually obliged to provide either an alternative or rearranged event, or if those 
were not possible, a refund to Ms O. So, if it didnt do this, it might mean B was in breach of 
contract to Ms O and she could reasonably have held NatWest liable for that breach of 
contract under section 75. 
Ms O has said that B told her on the phone that her flight had been cancelled and that it 
could not provide an alternative flight from the same airport at the same cost  only a flight 
from an airport that she said was too far away for her to travel to. Ms Os email to B of 5 July 
2022 sets out quite clearly that she had spoken to one of its representatives on the phone 
(who she  names in the email), had been told her flight was cancelled and had been told that 
she would need to initiate a cancellation herself if she wanted a refund. 
I question why Ms O would have sent such an email if that were not the case and it seems 
unlikely to me that there were alternative reasons why she sent it. A number of things 
persuade me of this. 
Firstly, Ive looked at historical flight information online for Ms Os flight number. This showed 
it was a regular bi-weekly flight with records of it landing in consecutive weeks before and 
after Ms Os scheduled flight, but not on the day of it (i.e. 26 June 2022, 3 July 2022, 10 July 
2022, 24 July 2022). So, I think this suggests, (consistent with what Ms O said she was told 
by B), that her outbound flight did not in fact go ahead. 
Secondly, B contacted Ms O after the cancellation explaining that it had sent email to our 
suppliers for cancellation and waiting for the refund from them. While its not implausible 
that B would have done this if Ms O had cancelled unprompted, this seems unlikely given Ms 
O did not appear to have been entitled to a refund from it if she cancelled. So, I question why 
B said it would try to get a refund for her, if the facts were not, as Ms O has described them, 
that B told her to cancel because it couldn't provide the flight any longer. 
With the above in mind, it seems to me on the balance of probabilities that Ms O was told by 
B that one of her flights had been cancelled, told that an alternative flight from the same 
airport was not available at the same price, and told that shed have to put a cancellation 
request in writing if she wanted a refund. 
Ms Os flight was from London Luton airport. The flight she said she was offered by B when 
she spoke with it was flying from Manchester. Given the distance involved between those 
two airports, I dont think this could be said to be an alternative or a re-arrangement  in 
the sense it meant B was not obliged to offer a refund under Clauses 5 or 7 of its terms. 
Were a court to have interpreted these clauses, it seems a reasonable interpretation might 
have been that any alternative or rearrangement would be reasonable when compared with 
the original event booked. Were that not the case, B could have offered any manner of 
outrageous or unsuitable alternatives and not been required to pay a refund if they were not 
accepted by the customer. And that doesnt seem in keeping with the spirit of clauses 5 or 7, 
or fair. 
I find therefore, that even though Ms O submitted a cancellation and refund request in writing to B on 5 July 2022,  B had either effectively cancelled her holiday before this, (when it told 
her he flight was cancelled), and was contractually obliged to pay her a refund under clause 
5, or the event was unable to take place and B was contractually obliged to pay her a refund 
under clause 7. Either way it appears Ms O was simply reaffirming her right to a refund in the 
contract within her communication to B on 5 July 2022. 
In failing to either arrange an alternative or provide a full refund it appears B was therefore in 
breach of contract.
Ive also considered the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 
(PTR). These set out that because Ms O booked a combination of flights and 
accommodation (or in other words a package), B was liable to her for the performance of the 
travel services included in the package contract. 
Regulation 11 of the PTR set out that if B altered significantly any of the main characteristics 
of the package, including the provision of the flights and Ms O did not accept those changes, 
she was able to terminate the contract without paying a termination fee and was entitled to a 
refund of all payments shed made to B. 
It appears Ms O could reasonably have argued that the cancellation of the flight and/or offer 
of an alternative at a far-away airport were significant changes to the main characteristics of 
the contract. And Ms Os email to B on 5 July 2022 was a clear indication she did not accept 
the changes and that she wanted a refund  as was her right under the PTR.
The provisions of Regulation 11 were implied in Ms Os contract with B. So, a failure to 
provide a refund of everything Ms O had paid to B in those circumstances appears to have 
been a breach of those implied terms.  
Thinking about all of this, I find NatWest treated Ms O unfairly by declining to meet her claim 
for a refund. To put this right, I think it should pay Ms O the cost of her holiday, plus interest 
at 8% simple from when it told her it had declined her claim until the date of settlement. 
As I explained earlier, the other way NatWest could have recovered Ms Os money was via 
the chargeback process. Chargebacks are subject to the relevant card scheme rules and not 
necessarily a determination of the parties legal rights. Because of this, its not as clear that 
Ms O could have recovered her money via this process. And because Ive concluded that 
NatWest should pay Ms O the cost of her holiday for other reasons, Ive not considered this 
in any further detail. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Ms Os complaint. To put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc must pay Ms O £898 plus 8% simple interest per year on that amount 
from 14 April 2023 until the date of payment*.
* If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms O how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman