DRN-3842317
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc wont replace her laptop as they 
say the problem is due to a software issue, which isnt covered by her policy. And that even 
though they accept her laptop may fail soon, they wont replace it now, despite all the years 
shes had her policy with them.
What happened
Mrs C has owned her laptop and had cover for it with D&G for about 11 years. In August 
2022 the laptop developed a fault and when Mrs C tried to use it, she could only see a blue 
screen. She sent the laptop to D&G for repair but when it was returned the problem 
persisted, and she was told this was due to software related issues which werent covered 
by her policy.
Mrs C raised a complaint which wasnt upheld. But D&G did agree to Mrs C obtaining a 
report from her own expert to confirm what was causing the problems with the laptop. They 
agreed to refund the cost of this report and said that if her expert found a hard drive issue, 
theyd replace the laptop.
Mrs C obtained an independent report. This said the fault with the laptop was that it was blue 
screening. The engineer tested the hard-drive and reinstalled the software operating 
programme. Which he said appeared to have resolved the problem. But he said that as this 
appeared to be an intermittent fault, there was no guarantee it wouldnt arise again. He 
thought a possible cause could be an intermittent fault with the hard drive or mother board, 
but this didnt show during testing and it looked as though installing the software operating 
programme had fixed the fault.
D&G refunded Mrs C the cost of the report. She called them about the report and told them 
the laptop was essentially useless, as due to its age she was unable to install current 
software programmes. She said that the laptop was terminal and as D&G had continued to 
insure it for 11 years, much longer that the normal life of a laptop, they should agree to 
replace it, or at least offer her 50% of the cost of a replacement laptop. 
D&G maintained that the problem with the laptop was a software issue and said the 
engineers report Mrs C had obtained didnt change their view on this. So Mrs C raised a 
further complaint. 
D&G responded to this on 14 September 2022. In this they said that Mrs Cs policy clearly 
states that software isnt covered. And while they appreciated that the laptop will eventually 
fail completely, at present it was working so they couldnt write it off. But if in the future it did 
fail and couldnt be repaired, it would be replaced with a brand-new laptop. So D&G didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs C wasnt happy with D&Gs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case but didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He said Mrs Cs laptop had 
malfunctioned due to its age and the software it was running. But as her policy doesnt cover 
devices for software malfunctions, it was reasonable for D&G to decline to replace it. 
He said that D&Gs technicians had provided details of the industry accepted tests theyd 
used to diagnose the cause of the fault and to check the laptops hardware. This confirmed 
the problem was a software issue. Mrs Cs expert had said there might be an intermittent 
fault with the hard drive, or motherboard, but couldnt confirm a hardware problem. So he 
didnt think there was enough evidence to prove that Mrs Cs laptop had a hardware issue. 
And he felt D&G had acted fairly and in-line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy 
when they declined her claim.
D&G accepted our investigators opinion, but Mrs C didnt. She says that during calls D&G 
agreed that they could offer her to refund her premiums, or money towards a new laptop, as 
a gesture of goodwill, but this hasnt happened. She feels they should do this as theyve 
continued to insure her laptop, despite its age, and knowing that the software installed on it 
was no longer supported by the manufacturer.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs policy covers her for accidental damage to and breakdown of her laptop. But the 
policy specifically excludes cover for software based malfunction. This is set out in section 
10.d.xi of her policy.
When Mrs C sent her laptop to D&Gs technicians for repair, they concluded that it wasnt 
working due to a software issue. They couldnt find any fault with the hard drive and were 
able to log on to the laptops operating system, without getting the blue screen Mrs C had 
reported. Although they said they didnt provide technical advice on software, the engineer 
recommended that she either seek advice from the manufacturer or the developer of the 
operating system.
D&G agreed to cover the cost of Mrs C seeking her own engineers report, which I think was 
a reasonable step for the them to take. That report suggested that there might be an 
intermittent hardware issue, but by taking the laptop back to factory settings, and reinstalling 
the operating system the engineer was able to get the laptop working.
As the report didnt confirm a hardware issue, D&G stood by their decision to decline Mrs Cs 
claim for a replacement laptop. Although they have told her that if the hard drive does fail, 
theyll replace the laptop.
Mrs Cs policy document states that her cover will continue for as long as she wants it. 
Section 6 of the policy covers duration of the policy. And 6.b states The policy continues 
indefinitely until cancelled or ended in accordance with these terms and conditions. You 
should review this cover periodically to ensure it remains suitable for your needs.
So Mrs C was put on notice that she needed to satisfy herself that the policy still met her 
needs.
During several calls with D&G Mrs C told them that shes aware the average lifespan of a 
laptop is three to five years. And that she normally took at extended manufacturers 
warranty, before taking out cover with them. So she knows that shes had her laptop for 
much longer than one would normally be expected to last. And she also said she was aware 
that the operating system was no longer supported by the developer.As the policy clearly states that software issues arent covered, I think Mrs C had the 
opportunity to review her policy and decide if the cover remained right for her. She 
maintained her cover and D&G have told her she remains covered under her policy for hard-
ware issues. So if the laptops hard-drive fails D&G will replace the laptop.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs C had with D&G. While there was a discussion about the 
premiums shed paid over the years, and whether it would be reasonable to write-off the 
laptop now and replace it, or offer her money towards a replacement, these were Mrs Cs 
suggestions, and D&Gs call handler didnt agree, he simply said hed have to refer the case 
to his manager.
After these calls the case was reviewed, and D&G maintained that they wouldnt replace the 
laptop as the problem was a software issue, which wasnt covered by the policy.
While I can understand that Mrs C feels D&G should act now to replace her laptop as due to 
an outdated operating system its not usable. This is a software issue which isnt covered by 
the policy. If the laptops hard drive fails D&G had said theyll replace the laptop, so Im not 
going to ask them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint 
about Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman