DRN-3583772
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) treated him when he fell into difficulties paying a conditional 
sale agreement. 
What happened
Mr M acquired a used car under a four-year conditional sale agreement with BPF in June 
2019. The car cost around £27,000 and Mr M was required to make payments of around 
£500 per month with an optional final payment of around £12,500. 
In April 2020 Mr M contacted BPF to enquire about a payment holiday because he was 
unable to make payment that month due to the impact of Covid-19 on his work. Mr M also 
spoke to BPF the following month looking for support, but despite initially indicating it could 
offer assistance it went on to say it didnt think a payment holiday or deferral would be 
appropriate given hed missed the previous two payments. It looks like BPF wrote to Mr M 
about the arrears and passed the account to debt collectors. 
Mr M wasnt happy with how he was being treated. He thought he was being given 
conflicting information and was unhappy the account had been passed to debt collectors. It 
looks like the account was called back from the debt collectors and put on hold while BPF 
looked into things. 
At the end of October 2020 Mr M spoke to BPF to say hed started work again and that he 
wanted to recommence paying towards his agreement. Hed not paid anything towards it 
since April. I think BPF wanted to establish what Mr M could afford to pay and it asked him to 
provide this information in writing. It looks like Mr M told BPF he was dyslexic so may need 
another option. 
There was some infrequent contact between Mr M and BPF over the next few months. BPF 
wanted to establish Mr Ms disposable income. I think it tried to take the information over the 
phone. It looks like it was concerned the details it took mightve been incomplete. And given 
it had not received any payments for the last year, it decided to terminate the agreement in 
March 2021. 
There were further discussions, and BPF sent an initial response to the complaint in June 
2021. It apologised for the poor service. It agreed to pay Mr M £100, and it removed three 
months of payments from the arrears balance along with adverse information from Mr Ms 
credit file between April and July 2020. It acknowledged it had been speaking to Mr M about 
entering into a payment plan, and it gave contact details for its collection team to discuss. 
BPF sent a further response to Mr M in July 2021. It apologised for misadvising Mr M his 
income and expenditure details would be required to set up an arrangement, and it paid him 
£30. It also said it would be happy to discuss things over the phone with Mr M if hed prefer. 
It gave him its contact details, and also said it would try to contact him. 
Mr M decided to bring the complaint to our service to consider. One of our investigators 
looked into things and decided to uphold the complaint. She noted the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Covid-19 guidance hadnt been issued when Mr M first spoke to BPF 
about his financial difficulties. But she didnt think BPF acted fairly when it declined to offer a 
payment deferral as the arrears were as a result of the impact of Covid-19. So she thought 
Mr M should have been given a payment deferral as per the FCA Covid-19 guidance. 
Our investigator also thought Mr M would have been eligible to have received up to six 
months worth of payment deferrals. So she thought BPF should retrospectively put that in 
place, and remove any adverse data for those months. She also thought BPF should 
increase its compensation offer in relation to the Covid-19 support to £200. And that she 
thought it should increase the compensation in relation to completing the income and 
expenditure over the phone to £100. 
BPF agreed with the assessment, but Mr M didnt. He said BPF unfairly terminated the 
agreement and were threatening to take the car. He said he did try to speak to BPF between 
November 2020 and March 2021. It looks like he was also unhappy with the level of 
compensation and adverse information recorded on his credit file as well. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to say Im sorry to hear Mr M has been impacted by Covid-19. It cant have been 
easy, and I want to thank him for taking the time to bring his complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Mr M and BPF that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Like our investigator pointed out, Im mindful the FCA hadnt released any Covid-19 specific 
guidance for car finance firms to follow when Mr M contacted BPF for help in April 2020. But 
by the time BPF decided not to offer a payment deferral, guidance had been issued. The 
FCA set out that car finance firms should offer customers impacted by Covid-19 a three-
month payment deferral unless (acting reasonably) it wasnt in the customers best interests.
It looks like BPF didnt want to offer a deferral because of arrears on the account. But like 
our investigator pointed out, I think those arrears were as a result of the impact of Covid-19 
on Mr Ms income. From what I can see, he was up to date on his agreement at the point he 
asked for help in April 2020. So I think the guidance was intended for customers like Mr M. I 
therefore agree it wouldve been fairer for BPF to have offered him a payment deferral. And I 
also agree with our investigator that, based on the subsequent FCA Covid-19 guidance, 
Mr M would have been able to request up to a six-month payment deferral. So I agree BPF 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file from April to September 2020. 
Neither party has disagreed with that. 
Ive also thought about the compensation our investigator recommended. BPF has agreed 
with her assessment. So its agreed to pay Mr M a total of £300. £200 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the way in which it dealt with the payment arrangement request. And £100 in relation to the way it dealt with its attempts to obtain an 
income and expenditure form. 
Mr M got in touch with BPF because he, like many people, was facing uncertainty and his 
income had been impacted by Covid-19. The FCA guidance was intended to give some 
immediate relief for consumers. So by not doing that I think BPF didnt give Mr M the support 
he needed at what was already a difficult time. Mr M explained other lenders had offered him 
the deferrals he needed. He was out of work and was no doubt worried about what he was 
going to do, and the impact of negative information on his credit file. 
I also agree that it took too long for BPF to establish what Mr Ms disposable income was. It 
initially wanted Mr M to provide this in writing, but as he said this would be difficult due to his 
dyslexia, BPF quite rightly offered to do it over phone. While I cant see BPF is the sole 
cause of the delays in getting this completed, it looks like it could have done more to obtain 
this information sooner. I also agree it might not have even been necessary for BPF to 
obtain this information before setting up some sort of arrangement. BPF could have 
reinstated the direct debit for the normal payment and then looked to discuss with Mr M the 
deferred payments and any arrears. Had things gone as I think they should have done, that 
could have happened in October 2020. However, I do have to bear in mind that certainly up 
to the point of issuing its responses to the complaints in June and July 2021, BPF has shown 
it was willing to discuss Mr Ms financial situation with him with a view to coming to a 
payment arrangement, which is what Id have expected it to do. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the total compensation of £300 broadly seems fair. 
Ive next thought about what else Mr M said in response to our investigators assessment. 
He said hes unhappy BPF is indicating it wants him to return the car. And hes unhappy with 
adverse information on his credit file. Hes also said there are calls missing from BPFs logs 
that should show he called BPF before it terminated his agreement. 
I think what I have to bear in mind is that Mr M hasnt supplied any evidence of the detriment 
caused by the adverse information on his credit file that weve said should be removed. 
Moreover, Ive not seen evidence of the calls he said he made before BPF decided to 
terminate the agreement. I think Mr M is implying the agreement wouldnt have been 
terminated had things gone as he thinks they should have done. But even if I were to accept 
things couldve gone differently leading up to BPFs decision to terminate the agreement, I 
have to consider the agreement says his payments are around £500 per month. From what 
Ive seen, hes only paid five payments of £600 since April 2020  over two years ago  so I 
think it likely the agreement would have been terminated in any event. Taking all this into 
account, I dont find I have the grounds to direct BPF to take further action to what Ive set 
out above. 
Finally, I appreciate Mr M is unhappy BPF is indicating it may wish to recover the car. This 
wasnt the case when the complaint was first referred to us. But I appreciate things can 
move on. I think Mr M has to bear in mind the goods ultimately belong to BPF until all 
payments are made. So given what Ive said above about the number of payments missed 
over the last two years I dont find I have the grounds to say BPF is acting unfairly. I 
arranged for our investigator to explain this to Mr M. And I wanted to find out if, for example, 
Mr M had been putting the money aside for his payments or if he had anything further to 
add. He said he hasnt been putting the money to one side because he used up funds when 
moving home, which he says was as a result of this situation. He said he wants us to get 
further evidence of calls hed made and he thinks BPF is withholding evidence. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms response, but for the reasons given above, given BPF own the 
car, and given the lack of payments, I dont find its being unreasonable in terminating the agreement or now seeking to recover the car. I dont think I need to get further evidence of 
calls made. While Im sympathetic to the situation, Id urge Mr M to speak to BPF to discuss 
a way forward. I would, however, remind BPF to treat Mr M with forbearance and due 
consideration if hes still in financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to the extent its not done so already, Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should:
Remove adverse information from Mr Ms credit file regarding the agreement from 
April to September 2020.
Pay Mr M £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman