DRN-3067145
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse him for two bank transfers he made
totalling £25,000 after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr C says he was contacted by someone purporting to be from his television
provider in relation to issues with his television box. Mr C says the caller offered to change
the box and reduce the monthly payments. Mr C was asked for his account details and says
after some persistence he provided the details for his Lloyds account.
Shortly after this, Mr C says he received a call from someone who claimed to work for
Lloyds, asking him about payments on the account and advising him that someone was
trying to get into his account. Mr C says he asked for a block to be put on the account.
Mr C has told us that the way the caller came across, such as knowing the number on the
back of the card before hed even got his card out and the person knowing about the
procedure - telling him what he would be asked about the payment, gave him the impression
they were from the bank.
Mr C has also explained he received another call from someone telling him they worked for
another bank (who Ill refer to as bank A in this decision)  whom Mr C also held an account 
with.
Mr C told us the caller said to secure his funds a new account needed to be created. An
account was set up with a different bank under Mr Cs daughters name. The account details
were provided to Mr C to allow him to transfer the funds.
While there is slightly differing information provided in relation to the calls - i.e. whether the
call telling Mr C he needed to move his funds to a new account was from someone
purporting to be from Lloyds or bank A, Mr C has told us the caller was the same person.
And that he spoke about both accounts, telling Mr C that he dealt with both banks.
Mr C sent the first payment of £15,000 at around 19:10 on 23 May 2019. The payment was 
stopped by Lloyds fraud detection systems and put on hold. There was then a call between 
Mr C and Lloyds about the payment. 
Mr C says the caller told him questions would be asked about the payment and provided him 
with a cover story. He was told to say he was sending the funds to his daughter to go on a 
European trip.
Mr C says the scammer was on the line whilst he was on the call with Lloyds about the
payment. Following this call, the payment for £15,000 was released. A second payment of 
£10,000 was made by Mr C around 19:29 to the same account as the first payment.
Unfortunately, unbeknown to Mr C at the time, he was in contact with fraudsters who
pretended to work for the banks. As a result, Mr C hadnt, as was led to believe, sent funds 
to an account set up in his daughters name  but instead had sent funds to an account 
controlled by the fraudsters. 
Mr C also transferred funds from his account with bank A  but bank A has since refunded
Mr C the funds he lost with them.
Mr C became aware he was the victim of a scam the same day and at around 19:46 he
reported the scam to Lloyds. Hes said he was given the account details for the account set
up in his daughters name and tried to check the funds had gone into the account. When he
couldnt see the funds and was told the account was syncing, he contacted Lloyds. Mr C
asked Lloyds to reimburse him the funds hed lost.
Lloyds issued its final response letter to Mr C on 11 October 2019, which said its system
stopped the payment of £15,000 and placed it on hold. Mr C spoke with the fraud
department who provided information about scams. Lloyds say Mr C was asked if anyone
was requesting for him to move the funds and if he was asked not to discuss it. It says Mr C
confirmed he was moving the funds for his daughter to go travelling. Lloyds believe a valid
warning was given before allowing the funds to leave. It said it contacted the receiving bank
once the scam was reported but unfortunately no funds remained.
As Mr C remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint to our service. One of our
investigators looked into things and she upheld the complaint. She thought there was
enough going on here that Lloyds ought to have been concerned Mr C was at risk of
financial harm. She thought Lloyds should have taken steps to look into things further than
merely asking what the payment was for and reading a scam script.
Our investigator said it was good to see the bank had intervened and placed the payment on
hold, however she felt Lloyds should have made further enquiries with Mr C about the
payment before allowing it to be made. She commented that, given Mr C had been given a
cover story, had Lloyds asked more open and probing questions she thinks the scam would
have unravelled.
In Lloyds response it agreed that Mr C hadnt made a transaction for such an amount
previously. It also recognised the payment was to a new payee. Lloyds say this is why the
payment was stopped and placed on hold. However, Lloyds raised that it could not see how
not asking Mr C about his daughters travel would have disadvantaged him, as he had told
the bank in the call his daughter had just finished university and the funds were for her to go
travelling in Europe.
Lloyds say Mr C chose not to be open and honest with the bank even after the scam script
was read out about this type of scam. It adds, if Mr C had been open and honest, the
payment of £15,000 would not have been released.
Lloyds have also referred to information Mr C provided within the call  specifically where
Mr C confirmed the funds had been received following his wifes passing from an insurance
policy. He was giving some of the money to his daughter for her trip. Lloyds note that this
information about the funds was true and wasnt something Mr C had made up on the spot
or was advised to say by the scammer. Lloyds believe Mr C thought about the questions he
may have been asked and it is not convinced more open questions wouldve broken the
spell.Further, Lloyds have commented Mr C raised the scam with in within 26 minutes of the first
payment being made. It feels during the call to discuss the £15,000 payment, a question of
doubt was put into Mr Cs head and that if he had doubts about the payment, he was making
he should have mentioned this to the bank.
Having considered Lloyds further comments, our investigators opinion remained the same.
She remained of the view Lloyds should refund Mr C for the funds hed lost as part of the
scam, along with 8% simple interest.
As Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me
for a decision.
My provisional findings 
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
24 August 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
It is accepted by both parties that these were authorised payments even though Mr C was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. He requested for the payments of £15,000 following by £10,000 to be made 
so, although he did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services 
Regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and 
reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr C 
when he carried out the payments to a fraudster, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Here it is not in dispute that the first payment of £15,000 was unusual when looking at Mr Cs
previous account usage and activity. Lloyd systems flagged the payment of £15,000 and placed it on 
hold. Following this, there was a conversation between Mr C and Lloyds about this payment.
As set out above, our investigator having listened to this call felt Lloyds ought to have asked more 
open and probing questions about the payment. She felt Lloyds in asking closed questions it made it 
easy for Mr C to give false answers as the questions required a yes or no response and didnt 
challenge him. Had open questions been asked she said Mr C wouldve been put on the spot and she 
believes the lack of convincing response or hesitation would have led to Lloyds noticing all was not as 
it seemed.
Having listened to this call and considering everything Ive seen and been told, Im currently inclined 
to reach a different view on this aspect to our investigator. Even had Lloyds asked more probing 
questions about the £15,000 payment Im currently not persuaded this would have made a difference 
in this particular case. Mr C has told us he was given a cover story  that he was sending the funds to 
his daughter to go travelling. When asked about the funds Mr C was honest when he told Lloyds that his wife had passed away and he received money from an insurance policy. That some of this money 
was the payment he was giving to his daughter for her trip.
In this case, Mr C provided a plausible cover story, for example it is not unusual for children to go 
travelling after they finish university. He also provided a truthful answer in relation to the money when 
asked if he was lending his daughter the money. The plausibility of the cover story was one that Im 
persuaded enabled Mr C to think on his feet and so Im currently not satisfied the answers Mr C likely 
would have given in response to more open questions would have seemingly caused the scam to 
unravel or cause Lloyds concern that he was at risk of a scam at this point.
However, when Mr C made a further payment of £10,000 at around 19:29 - not long after the first 
payment of £15,000, Im persuaded Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have called Mr C again and 
asked him some questions to challenge the purpose of the second payment before it was executed. 
Had it done so, as I think it ought to have done here, Lloyds could have asked questions to challenge 
the purpose of the second payment which was in quick succession to the first payment of £15,000.
Had Lloyds asked Mr C what the second payment was for, given the cover story, Im persuaded it is 
more likely than not he would have again said the payment of £10,000 was for his daughter to go 
travelling. In response to Mr Cs likely explanation, as well as the particular circumstances of this 
transaction (second payment to the same account, in quick succession, being made for the same 
purpose as the first payment  daughter travelling), I would have expected Lloyds to ask some follow 
up questions to ensure Mr C wasnt at risk of falling victim to an impersonation/safe account scam. I 
say this because - Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have been aware of the prevalence of such scams 
and their particular features at the time.
For example, it could have asked Mr C why he was sending the money to his daughter over two 
separate payments and why he hadnt made one payment for £25,000. I think at this point Mr C more 
likely than not would have shown some hesitation and would have had difficulty thinking of a 
convincing answer to this question on the spot. I think at this point Lloyds ought to have concerns that 
Mr C might have been at risk of a financial harm. And, at this time Lloyds ought to have done more to 
bring to life what a safe account scam looked and felt like.
So, it follows that Im minded to find Lloyds could have prevented Mr Cs further loss when he asked 
to make the second payment of £10,000 and stopped him from losing this money.
I have also considered whether Mr C was blameworthy in some way and therefore whether he should 
bear some responsibility for his loss. Im mindful the fraudster told Mr C it had set up an account with 
a different bank in his daughters name. Ive considered this carefully and while I think it extremely 
unlikely a bank would set up an account in another persons name and provide account details to 
someone other than the account holder, Im not satisfied Mr C, as a layperson, understood this at the 
time. Its important to recognise he was under pressure and following the instructions of who he 
believed to be his bank. So, I dont think Mr C would have necessarily picked up on this aspect or that 
this would have raised suspicion with him.
I say this because, Im currently persuaded that at the time of the scam he genuinely was under the 
belief that his accounts were at risk. Hes referred to receiving a number of calls and being on the 
phone with the scammers for a lengthy period of time  which Im persuaded would have placed Mr C 
under greater stress and worry.
Mr C needed to process information he was receiving from the fraudsters quickly as well as 
communicating with Lloyds staff and was doing so under conditions of stress. Its quite 
understandable that hed be less attentive to indications that this was a scam, even if those signs are 
clearer with the benefit of hindsight.
All things considered, I am satisfied he was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a cruel 
impersonation/safe account scam.To put things right I said Lloyds should:
Refund Mr C from the second payment of £10,000
Add 8% simple interest on that sum from the time the payment was made to the time
it is refunded. The interest is taxable income, so Lloyds can deduct income tax from
the interest payment, but it should make it clear to Mr C if it does.
Lloyds responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mr C responded and said:
The people are very clever and had inside information on how banks work. He 
couldnt tell if he was dealing with a true employee of the bank or not. 
That they knew numbers of the banks and procedures of what will happen. 
Mr C acknowledged the bank put a hold on his money for a while but comments that 
he doesnt know if that time shouldve been longer or even whether the process 
shouldve been done over a day or two. He also questions whether the amount of 
money (payment) shouldve been done face to face with a manager. 
Hes referred to his contact with a financial advisor at the bank which he had spoken 
to and met with not long before the scam took place. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains unchanged. Ive reached the same conclusions as set 
out in my provisional decision which Ive copied above. 
Id like to assure Mr C that Ive carefully considered all the information provided by both him 
and Lloyds and that I accept my findings will have come as a disappointment to him. I do 
sympathise with what Mr C has been through but in my role, I need to reach my decision 
based on what is fair to all parties involved and based on an assessment of whether a 
business did something wrong. 
I have taken into consideration what Mr C has reiterated about the fraudsters - their 
knowledge of the banks procedures, phone numbers and that because of this he didnt 
know whether he was speaking with a true employee of the bank or not. Id like to assure 
Mr C that I dont dispute what he has told us happened at the time of the scam and, I accept 
Mr C has been the victim of a cruel scam here. 
But as I set out in my provisional decision, the first payment of £15,000 was placed on hold 
and there was a conversation between Mr C and Lloyds. Having listened to this 
conversation, for all the reasons Ive previously explained, Im persuaded Mr C provided a 
plausible cover story  that he was sending the funds to his daughter to go travelling. It is not 
unusual for children to go travelling after they finish university and further, Mr C provided a 
truthful answer in relation to the money when asked if he was lending his daughter the 
money. Given the plausibility of the cover story, Im persuaded this enabled Mr C to think on 
his feet. So Im not satisfied the answers Mr C likely would have given in response to more 
open questions from Lloyds would have seemingly caused the scam to unravel or cause it 
concern that he was at risk of a scam at this point.However, I was persuaded that Lloyds could have prevented Mr Cs further loss when he 
asked to make the second payment of £10,000 and found that it could have stopped him 
from losing this money. This was on the basis that I found Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably 
to have called Mr C again and asked him some questions to challenge the purpose of the 
second payment before it was executed. Had it done so, as I think it ought to have done 
here, Lloyds could have asked questions to challenge the purpose of the second payment 
which was in quick succession to the first payment of £15,000.
Given the cover story, I thought it was more likely than not that Mr C would have again said 
the payment of £10,000 was for his daughter to go travelling. With the particular 
circumstances of the transactions  second payment to the same account, in quick 
succession, being made for the same purpose as the first payment  I was persuaded 
Lloyds ought to have asked follow up questions to ensure Mr C wasnt at risk of falling victim 
to an impersonation/safe account scam. 
Had Lloyds asked, for example, why he was sending the funds to his daughter over two 
separate payments and why hed not made one payment for £25,000, I think at this point 
Mr C would have shown some hesitation and would have had difficulty in thinking of a 
convincing answer to this question on the spot. And at this point, I think Lloyds ought to have 
had concerns that Mr C might have been at risk of financial harm and done more to bring to 
life what a safe account scam looked and felt like. 
I am aware Mr C has commented the bank put a hold on his money for a while but says he 
doesnt know if that time shouldve been longer or even whether the process shouldve been 
done over a day or two. Hes also questioned whether the amount of money (payment 
made) shouldve been done face to face with a manager.
As Ive said above, in this particular case the first payment of £15,000 was put on hold and 
there was a conversation between Mr C and Lloyds. This was because the first payment 
Mr C made was unusual for his previous account usage  and so Lloyds made contact with 
him as I would expect it to in such circumstances. However, Im not persuaded the answers 
Mr C was likely to have given had Lloyds asked more open questions about the payment of 
£15,000 would have given it cause for concern that he was at risk of financial harm for all the 
same reasons Ive explained (and are copied above). Further, our role is not to tell a bank 
how to run its business or to interfere in how a business operates. So, this point doesnt 
change my findings. 
Ive also carefully considered what Mr C has said in relation to his contact with a financial 
advisor at the bank not long before the scam took place. While Ive taken on board Mr Cs 
comments, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that shows Mr Cs contact with the 
financial advisor and the scam are linked or involved in any way. It is for this reason I make 
no specific comments relating to this point. 
So, it follows that I find Lloyds could have prevented Mr Cs further loss when he asked to 
make the second payment of £10,000 and stopped him from losing this money.
I considered whether Mr C was blameworthy in some way and therefore whether he should 
bear some responsibility for his loss. However, for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision (copied above) Im persuaded that at the time of the scam Mr C genuinely was 
under the belief that his accounts were at risk. Hes referred to receiving a number of calls 
and being on the phone with the scammers for a lengthy period of time  which Im 
persuaded would have placed Mr C under greater stress and worry. He needed to process 
information he was receiving from the fraudsters quickly as well as communicating with 
Lloyds staff and was doing so under conditions of stress. Its quite understandable that hed be less attentive to indications that this was a scam, even if those signs are clearer with the 
benefit of hindsight. 
All things considered, Im satisfied Mr C was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a 
cruel impersonation/safe account scam.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to do the following:
Refund Mr C from the second payment of £10,000
Add 8% simple interest on that sum from the time the payment was made to the time
it is refunded. The interest is taxable income, so Lloyds can deduct tax from the 
interest payment, but it should make it clear to Mr C if it does.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman