DRN-3367102
The complaint
Mr H complains that he didnt get any support from NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) and 
they registered a default against him.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card with Aqua. In January 2019, he had a limit of £7,550 and the balance 
was £4,797. Contractual minimum monthly payments were then around £193 (depending on 
the balance). He was in financial difficulty and Aqua agreed to reduced minimum monthly 
payments of £130. Interest and fees were suspended. Mr H made the payments through 
2019 until the payment of £130 in January 2020. No payment was made in February 2020 
and March 2020, until the last payment received by Aqua  on 1 April 2020. 
Aqua agreed a two-month payment holiday for April 2020 and May 2020. Interest was still 
suspended. The payment holiday came to an end but no payments were then received after 
that. On 25 June 2020, Aqua sent a Notice of Default  stating the arrears were then £260. 
On 17 July 2020, Aqua wrote to Mr H to terminate the card. On 13 October 2020, Aqua 
wrote to Mr H to say that they were registering a default with credit reference agencies 
(CRA). The debt was sold to a debt collection agency (DCA) in December 2020.
Mr H complained. He said Aqua hadnt treated him fairly. Theyd not given him any support, 
nor warned him that they were to default him. Hed been ill with Covid and had suffered 
family and friends bereavements. The default was now impacting his employment and his 
ability to get credit.
Aqua said theyd agreed a payment plan in January 2019  for payments of £130 a month. 
These payments were made by Mr H through 2019 but stopped late in 2019. He made one 
more payment in April 2020. They agreed a two-month payment holiday in April 2020. 
Theyd tried to call Mr H in February 2020, without success. They also sent several other 
letters about his account and asked him to call  but he hadnt. They did get a call on 2 July 
2020, when Mr H said hed resume payments in August 2020  but no payments were 
made. So, they took the decision to close his account and pass it to a debt collection agency 
(DCA)  in November 2020.  The default registered by Aqua had been removed and replaced 
by a default applied by the DCA  as Mr H then owed them the money.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered that Aqua acted fairly. Theyd 
supported Mr H with a payment plan from January 2019, on an interest free basis. Theyd 
given him a payment holiday in April 2020. And when that expired, Mr H hadnt resumed the 
payments of £130 a month. She saw that Aqua had communicated several times with Mr H 
throughout. Theyd written to him on several occasions and tried to speak to him, but without 
success. She felt that Aquas actions to default Mr Hs account were fair.
Mr H didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has complained that he didnt get support from Aqua when he was in financial difficulty. 
And when he was later affected by Covid, they should have been more supportive at that 
time  in line with government guidance. He said he wasnt aware that Aqua were going to 
default him, and says he made a number of attempts to try to speak to them about his 
situation. He therefore feels that the default should be removed, and all interest and fees 
refunded.
When a customer is in financial difficulty, there is industry guidance as to what a firm might 
do to help. Businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty 
sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses like Aqua 
should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a 
business might suspend or waive interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow 
customers more time to repay their debt. So  Ive considered Mr Hs complaint in this light.
I can see he told Aqua that he was in difficulty in January 2019. And then  Aqua went 
though Mr Hs income and expenditure and agreed a payment plan for him  with reduced 
payments of £130 a month, with no interest or fees to be paid. Mr H made these payments 
through 2019, with one payment of £130 then made in January 2020. So, in 2019, it seems 
clear that Aqua did help Mr H  and in particular, I can see they charged zero interest and 
fees on his card from January 2019 through until when the default occurred in October 2020. 
So  that must have been a considerable help to him.
In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Aqua, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit 
cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
In line with this Aqua then agreed a payment holiday for Mr H for April 2020 to May 2020  
so he made no payments for those months. I can see that Aqua wrote to him on 1 April 2020 
to outline the arrangement. The letter said no payments were due to be made  and it also 
said, When your payment holiday ends, you will have to start to make at least your 
contractual minimum monthly payment again. At that time, Mr Hs balance was £3,207 and 
the limit was £5,350. 
Aqua wrote to Mr H again on 5 June 2020 to say the payment holiday was coming to an end 
on 15 June 2020 and From 15th June 2020 your contractual minimum payment will be 
calculated in accordance with the section 'How is your contractual minimum payment 
calculated?' of your credit agreementThis means that you will need to start making at least 
your minimum monthly payment again by the date shown on your next statement.Any 
payments that were already due before your payment holiday began will become 
immediately payable on 15th June 2020. So  I think it was clear what was going to happen 
then.
The letter also asked Mr H to get in touch if he needed more help as it said What happens 
if I cant pay? If youre finding it hard to pay, call us and we can work with you to find a 
solution. Theres no record of Mr H getting in touch then. If he had, Aqua couldve 
considered a further payment holiday for him.
I can then see that no payments were made by Mr H in June 2020  and Aqua wrote to him 
on 25 June 2020, with a Notice of Default  stating the arrears were then £260, and those had to be paid by 16 July 2020. But Mr H didnt pay anything and so on 17 July 2020, Aqua 
wrote to Mr H to terminate the card. This letter also asked Mr H to get in touch  it said 
What should I do?...Call us and well take details of your income and outgoings to work out 
an affordable repayment amount But  I cant see that Mr H did contact Aqua.
 On 13 October 2020, Aqua wrote to Mr H to say that they were registering a default with 
credit reference agencies. This letter said This letter is notice of our intention to register 
information about the default on your account with credit reference agencies. We will do so 
at any time after 28 days from the date of this letter.This will stay on your file for six years 
and may make it harder for you to get credit in the futureWhat does this mean for 
me?...Credit reference agency files are used to assess credit applications. The default will 
stay on your file for six years and may make it harder for you to get credit in futureWe 
may now also sell your debt to another company so its important that you call us as soon 
as possible. I cant see that Mr H contacted Aqua  and the letter made it clear about the 
affect on Mr Hs credit file, and that the debt would be passed to a DCA.
Mr H has said that he asked Aqua for help and support but it wasnt forthcoming  but I 
think that given the payment plan that Aqua agreed, on an interest free and charges free 
basis  which ran for 18 months from January 2019  I think they did help. And Aqua also 
agreed a payment holiday in April 2020. And as Ive set out, Aqua were clear in their 
communications about the payment plans, payment holiday and the consequences of non  
payment.
Ive also gone on to consider the other communications from Aqua. They wrote to Mr H in 
April 2019, September 2019 and February 2020 asking that Mr H call them. On two 
occasions - in September 2019 and February 2020, I can see that they arranged to call Mr 
H and did so  without getting through. So, they did try to speak to him. I can see that Mr H 
contacted Aqua on 2 July 2020 and said he would pay the monthly payments starting in 
August 2020  but these werent paid. Ive gone through Aquas records and found no other 
calls or emails from Mr H to them. Ive also gone through Mr Hs statements and they set 
out the position on his accounts monthly.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Hs illnesses and his personal circumstances. But  having looked 
at what happened in some detail, I dont think I can say that Aqua acted unreasonably or 
unfairly. And so  while this will be disappointing for Mr H, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here. Id encourage Mr H to get in touch with the DCA to agree a payment 
programme. And alongside that, he might also consider asking for free debt advice from a 
debt advice charity.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman