DRN-3495030
The complaint
Miss S complains that MBNA Limited will not reduce or waive the interest on her credit card 
to avoid her becoming a future customer in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss S was given a three month payment holiday due to her circumstances during the 
coronavirus restrictions in 2020 of which she used one month of the payment holiday. Based 
on the nature of her self employed role, she was unable to work during the restrictions. Miss 
S wrote to MBNA for them to consider taking action to avoid her becoming a future customer 
in financial difficulty. 
Miss S says that she is currently not in financial difficulty or complaining about the way 
MBNA has treated her. But she has made observations to MBNA. She explained that she 
spoke to a call handler who informed Miss S that unless she was in financial difficulty now, 
then MBNA were unable to do anything to help her, but Miss S explained to the call handler 
that based on her age and looking forward to the next 24 months, she could end up in 
financial difficulty. The call handler also explained if Miss S was making a payment lower 
than her minimum payment, then this could affect her credit file and show for up to six years.
Miss S said that based on the wording of MBNAs website, it states they are here to help 
now and in the future, but they were not adhering to this by not agreeing to reduce the 
interest charged on her main credit card with MBNA or to offer her the same terms as a new 
customer, based on how long she had been a MBNA customer. She proposed that MBNA 
reduced her interest rate to 4.9% for 48 months and backdate the interest rate to March 
2020 to help her avoid being a future customer in financial difficulty. She said that she was 
making the minimum payment by taking on any part time job she could find.
Miss S also said she had looked on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website, and 
looked at the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, where it refers to the principles. She said that 
principles 2,6 and 7 were very relevant in her case, but MBNA had not treated her with due 
skill, care and diligence. She said they had not paid due regard to the interests of her and 
they had not treated her fairly. Miss S also raised a point about receiving a text message 
from MBNA which implied she completely missed her monthly payment.
MBNA treated Miss Ss correspondence as a complaint, although she hadnt intended it to 
be a complaint. They said that to consider lowering her monthly payments Miss S would 
need to provide them with her income and expenditure, but Miss S had informed them she 
didnt want to give them this information. MBNA said that without this information, they were 
unable to help her. They said if she didnt meet her minimum payments her account would 
fall into arrears and eventually default which would cause a negative impact on her credit file 
for up to six years. 
MBNA said they were unable to put Miss S on a promotional interest rate that they offer new 
customers, but if she got in touch with them and provided them her income and expenditure 
details then they may be able to stop interest on her account. They said the offers were open 
to new customers and dont apply to existing customers. They also said that the offer 
wouldnt apply to an existing balance with them, even for a new customer. MBNA said they 
were right to treat her letter as a complaint as she was clearly dissatisfied. They said they 
sent her a text because although she had made a payment, the payment was 54p short of 
the minimum payment as shown on her statement, so they would consider this to be an 
overdue repayment. MBNA confirmed they would not report the late 54p payment to the 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Miss S brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ss 
complaint. He said that Miss S had agreed to the terms and conditions of the account, so he 
wasnt persuaded that MBNA were acting unfairly by charging her the interest rate that 
applied to her credit card. He said the evidence showed that MBNA were prepared to offer 
her help and support, just not her preferred option. He said that MBNA were prepared to 
work with Miss S to provide her with help and support, therefore he said MBNA were acting 
in line with the principles that Miss S highlighted.
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary she said MBNA would only help her if she was in financial difficulty and not to 
prevent her becoming a customer in financial difficulty. She said an income and expenditure 
form would either show that she had enough income to make her repayments and no help 
would be offered, or she would not have enough income to meet her repayment and the help 
they then would provide would affect her credit file for six years. Miss S said she would not 
qualify for assistance based on her income and outgoings, but her interest is too high in 
order for her to clear her balance in 24-28 months. 
Miss S said that MBNA were not acting in line with the Consumer Credit Sourcebook and the 
principles of business. She said she was at this point because of the pandemic and MBNA 
were not being fair as they are applying financial difficulty policies as if the pandemic hadnt 
affected her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has brought another complaint about a third party business to our service. I must be 
clear to her that I will only be looking into the actions of MBNA here and not the separate 
third party company. Miss S will receive a separate decision into her complaint with the third 
party business in due course, if she has not received this already.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Miss S from the outset that Im unable to tell MBNA what interest rate they should 
offer existing customers, as this is a commercial decision for MBNA to make. 
Miss S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I agree that MBNA were right to identify Miss Ss observations as a complaint as she was 
dissatisfied that MBNA would not agree to her proposals. As our service can only look into 
complaints and Miss S completed a complaint form to our service, then Im satisfied this 
would meet the definition of a complaint.Ive considered what Miss S has said about the principles under the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook and that MBNA are not acting in line with them, specifically principles 2, 6 and 
7. Ive outlined these below:
2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence
6  A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly
7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
Im not persuaded that MBNA are acting outside of these principles and Ill explain why. Miss 
S has made it clear to both MBNA and our service on several occasions that she is not 
currently in financial difficulties, but based on her age and profession, she may be in the 
future, so she is trying to be proactive to avoid this happening in the future.
But Im satisfied that it is reasonable for MBNA to consider Miss Ss current financial 
circumstances in offering her help as opposed to something which may not happen in the 
future. I say this as Miss S would not be aware of her income or expenditure in the future. So 
I cant say that MBNA would be acting with due skill care and diligence by agreeing to a 
proposal based on something which may not happen in the future. 
Im not persuaded this would be treating Miss S fairly. I say this because both parties would 
not be aware of the exact circumstances moving forward. A number of things could change 
which wouldnt be foreseeable, in the same way the effects of the pandemic werent 
foreseeable when Miss S originally asked for a payment holiday. Miss S told MBNA she was 
able to make the payment because she was taking on part time work and on a telephone 
conversation she told MBNA that her husband was giving her money. So I cant say it would 
be inevitable that Miss S would not be able to have enough income through work or by other 
means moving forward, to not be able to meet her financial commitments.
Miss S agreed to the terms and conditions of the account. These clearly set out her 
promotional rates of interest, when these would end and how much interest is payable. So I 
would expect both parties to adhere to this agreement while Miss S is not in financial 
difficulties. 
MBNA have not reduced the interest rate to what a new customer could get. Im satisfied this 
is fair as she would be treated the same as other existing customers who arent currently in 
financial difficulty. Miss S has previously benefitted from promotional interest rates. Ive 
noted the strength of feeling that Miss S has about MBNA agreeing to her proposal to help 
her reduce her debt quicker before she reaches future financial difficulties. But as Ive 
already mentioned, thats a business decision for MBNA. And not one this service is able to 
interfere with. So I cant say that MBNA have treated Miss S unfairly by applying the terms 
and conditions of her account and not to lower her interest rate  even if she has been a 
longstanding MBNA customer.
Ive listened to the phone call that Miss S had with a collections call handler on 15 June 
2021. The call adviser does sympathise with Miss S and reiterates that Miss S is trying to 
avoid being a customer in financial difficulties. But she is unable to agree to reduce or waive 
the interest on the account for someone who is not in financial difficulties as Miss S has 
stated she isnt. Im satisfied that the call handler did try and assist Miss S by signposting 
debt management charities and CRAs and understanding the points Miss S was making. 
She also told Miss S of a website where she could check to see if she was entitled to any 
benefits. Im not persuaded that just because MBNA did not agree to lower her interest that 
this meant they werent treating her fairly, as the call handler did assist Miss S with other 
things which may have helped her.Im satisfied that the call handler clearly set out the options available for Miss S including 
completing a budget planner, so Im satisfied this would fit in with the principles Miss S 
highlighted by paying due regard to the interest of Miss S, as they would need to know her 
finances in order to see how they could assist her. 
Miss S has said if she wasnt able to afford repayments and didnt make them in full, then 
this would be reflected on her credit file. But this is what I would expect. A firm has a duty to 
accurately report a customers payments to the CRAs. So if Miss S made an arrangement 
with MBNA to pay a lower amount than her contractual minimum payment, then MBNA 
would have a responsibility to report any arrangement to the CRAs. So I cant say that 
MBNA would be doing anything wrong here.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about the wording on MBNAs website. Ive noted the 
strength of feeling she has on this and Ive looked at the screenshots shes sent us. But Im 
not persuaded that the wording was misleading. Miss S contacted MBNA to discuss her 
finances and they explained to her that her circumstances may change in the future. Some 
of the wording on the website indicates that they can help if a customer is in financial 
difficulties, for example the sooner you seek help, the sooner you will get back on track. 
But Miss S had routinely made at least the minimum payment, so I cant say that she would 
be off track as such. The website also says are you finding it difficult to keep up with your 
credit card or loan repayments? We can help you deal with your debt. But Miss S was able 
to make her payments, even if she did have to take on part time work.
Its clear that Miss S has attempted to be proactive to take steps to pay off her outstanding 
balance and I commend her for this. Miss S has mentioned the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook, but this sets out how businesses should treat their customers when they are 
suffering from financial difficulties. There is no provision within the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook to instruct MBNA to reduce or waive interest where theres no evidence of 
financial difficulty. Miss S has been clear that she currently isnt in financial difficulties. So Im 
persuaded that MBNA have acted in line with the credit agreement, the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook and the principles. So it follows I dont require MBNA to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman