DRN-2552257
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the way that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as 
Alphera Financial Services, has dealt with the early settlement of a hire purchase agreement 
under which a car had been supplied to her.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mrs D under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that she signed in August 2017. She phoned Alphera Financial Services in July 
2020 about settling her agreement early and she was given an early settlement figure of 
£6,737.47. She paid that amount to Alphera Financial Services and cancelled her direct 
debit so the payment that was due to Alphera Financial Services that month wasnt paid. It 
contacted her about paying the outstanding amount of £213.39 so she complained to it.
Alphera Financial Services said that the letter that it sent to Mrs D said that the settlement 
figure:  assumes any repayment which we are currently processing will still be paid (in 
addition to the settlement figure), so the £213.39 was still owed. Mrs D wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Alphera Financial Services had made an error by requesting that Mrs D repay the final 
amount due under her hire purchase agreement.
Mrs D has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says the 
information supplied by Alphera Financial Services is very misleading and unfair and that the 
settlement figure on the front page of the letter clearly states the amount and doesn't refer to 
other payments. She says that she asked for the settlement figure five days before the date 
of the letter and that she was in the process of making the settlement figure by the time that 
she received the letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs D phoned Alphera Financial Services in July 2020 about settling her agreement 
early and she was quoted an early settlement figure  I havent been provided with a 
recording or transcript of that conversation so I dont know what was said at that time;
five days later Alphera Financial Services sent an early settlement letter to Mrs D by 
e-mail which confirmed that the settlement figure was £6,737.47 and which said, 
under a heading How has my Settlement Figure been calculated? in a section 
about some frequently asked questions that: It assumes any repayment which we 
are currently processing will still be paid (in addition to the settlement figure);
its clear why Mrs D considered that she only needed to pay £6,737.47 to Alphera 
Financial Services and I consider that it should have stated more clearly that the 
settlement figure was in addition to the July 2020 repayment, but I also consider that 
it would be reasonable to expect Mrs D to have read the letter that Alphera Financial 
Services had sent to her;
if shed done so, I consider that she would have known, or ought reasonably to have 
known, that she was required to make the payment of £213.39 that was due in July 
2020 in addition to the settlement figure of £6,737.47;
I consider that the correct amount that was due from Mrs D was the early settlement 
figure of £6,737.47 and the July payment of £213.39, so Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Alphera 
Financial Services to remove the charge of £213.39 from Mrs Ds account - or to take 
any other action in response to her complaint; and
I sympathise with Mrs D for the issues that shes been caused and its clear that she 
has strong feelings about her complaint and she says that she has no intention of 
paying the £213.39 - but if she doesnt do so I consider it to be likely that Alphera 
Financial Services will take further action to recover the debt from her, to the extent 
that its legally entitled to do so, and that it will record adverse information about the 
debt on her credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman