DRN-3188877
The complaint
Mrs B says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that the Morses 
loans caused her financial difficulty. Morses should have seen this and not lent to 
her.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. And these 
form part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs B between June 
2018 and December 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending 
is in the table below.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 08/06/2018 £400 33 15/12/2018
2 15/12/2018 £400 33 13/06/2019
3 13/06/2019 £400 33 09/12/2019
4 09/12/2019 £600 53 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that by loan 4 the lending pattern 
itself showed that Mrs B was probably not repaying her loans sustainably. So, he thought that 
Morses shouldnt have approved this loan.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think that the lending 
pattern itself demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable. And its checks showed that all 
of the loans were affordable for Mrs B. So, it didnt think it should pay compensation for loan 4.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs B provided when she completed her loan application. 
Mrs B said she had a weekly income of £398 for loan 1, this fell to around £300 for loans 2 and 
3 and then £270 for loan 4. She had regular weekly outgoings of £250 for loan 1, this also fell 
to around £185 for loans 3 and 4 and to £120 for loan 4. So, it wouldve been reasonable for 
Morses to think that Mrs B could afford the loan repayments.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further.
It could be said that Morses shouldve made better checks before approving loan 4. But Ive not 
seen any indication that more detailed checks wouldve led to Morses not approving this loan. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it obtained.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Mrs B was struggling 
financially and that she was likely to be reliant on the lending. But the repayments seem 
reasonable and the loan amounts didnt vary by much. And looking at the information 
Morses has provided it seems that Mrs B didnt have any obvious problems repaying the 
loans until sometime into the term of loan 4.
I do agree that around 18 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. But 
taking everything else into consideration I dont think this means the lending was unsustainable 
in this case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs B was reliant on this lending and it 
wasnt causing her significant problems when Morses approved the loans.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 4 were 
likely to be proportionate. And I currently think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 4 was 
reasonable. Im not intending to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about them.
Morses, and Mrs B, received my provisional decision. Morses didnt have anything to add. 
Mrs B, didnt entirely agree with my provisional decision. She didnt really comment on the 
sale of the loans. But she did outline some her circumstances since the loans were sold that 
has made repaying loan 4 difficult. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B didnt raise any new points about the sale of the loans after receiving my provisional 
decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I 
dont think that Morses lent irresponsibly when it approved loans 1 to 4 and Im not upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint about them. I wont add anything further to this.  
Mrs B has said that some family problems shes been having have caused her difficulty in 
repaying loan 4. I understand she has nearly repaid the loan in in full. Ive thought about 
what she has said and it seems to concern events that took place after the sale of the loans. 
And so it doesnt affect my findings about whether Morses irresponsibly lent or not. 
That said, I can see Mrs B has been through a difficult time and I hope things have improved 
for her. And I also hope my decision does not cause any upset. 
Finally, I will remind Morses of its responsibility to treat Mrs B fairly if she still has money to 
repay on loan 4. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in the provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman