DRN-3457854
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods and 
Very (Shop Direct) irresponsibly gave him two running account credit facilities that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr W applied for two credit accounts with Shop Direct. He was given an 
initial credit limit of £600 on one and £500 on the other. The credit limits were increased 
on each card to £800 in May 2019. The Littlewoods account had its credit limit increased 
to £1000 in September 2019 and the Very account to £1100 in the same month. The Very 
account was passed to a third party debt collection agency in June 2020. 
In December 2020, Mr W complained to Shop Direct to say that the accounts shouldnt 
have been opened for him because they werent affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr W didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mr Ws complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Mr W has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Shop Direct has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit reference agency to determine the amount of credit it was 
able to offer. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing 
Mr W with credit or credit increases. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit or credit increases were 
unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limits were reasonably modest, the maximum monthly 
payments for that credit would have been relatively modest. And subsequently through the 
credit increases the accounts were well managed largely and Mr H was not using the full 
credit limits available to him. 
 
Ive seen insufficient evidence to think that there had been lots of adverse information on 
Mr Ws credit file immediately before each lending decision was made. In fact, I have seen 
none that predate the initial credit or the credit increases. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to 
think that the credit limits it provided Mr W were unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman