DRN-2519270
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions he 
says he didnt make or authorise. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with NatWest.
On 15 February 2020, a series of transactions were made from Mr Bs account at Apple 
Stores and two food outlets over a period of around three hours. The total value of those 
payments was just over £7,700.
Mr B says he remembers using his credit card on 14 February 2020 when he was out with 
friends in a pub. And was using his credit card to pay for food and drinks. Hes explained that 
he normally kept his credit card in his wallet with all his other bank cards. But when he went 
out on the 14 February 2020, he put his credit card in his mobile phone case. Hes said he 
hasnt shared his PIN with anyone. And hasnt given his card to anyone to use. He thinks 
that when he was at the pub someone shoulder surfed him and saw him entering his PIN. 
And then stole his credit card.
Mr B says he first became aware that his credit card was missing on 15 February 2020 when 
he was out shopping with a friend and wanted to use the card. So, he rung NatWest to report 
the card as lost.
NatWest looked into the transactions and said it thought Mr B authorised them. So, it didnt 
refund him. In summary, NatWest said:
The payments were authenticated using Mr Bs card and PIN
No incorrect PIN entries or balance enquiries were made
Mr B had made previous transactions at the Apple stores where the disputed 
transactions were carried out and
No transactions were attempted after the card was cancelled
Mr B disagreed with NatWests decision. He told the bank that hes not repaying the balance 
on the account as he didnt make the transactions. He said the bank should look at the 
CCTV from the stores which will show he didnt make the transactions. So, he brought his 
complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
In summary the investigator said that:
NatWests technical evidence showed that Mr Bs credit card and PIN were used to 
authenticate each of the disputed transactions
Theres no plausible explanation for how a thief could take possession of Mr Bs 
mobile phone, remove the credit card and then replace the phone without Mr B 
noticing
It wasnt clear why a thief would choose to wait several hours before trying to use Mr 
Bs card  he noted that no ATM withdrawals were attempted, which was the 
quickest way to profit from the card. And wouldve provided an opportunity for the 
thief to test theyd noted the PIN down correctly and find out how much was available 
by completing a balance enquiry. But neither was done
The disputed transactions occurred over a period of around three hours and the last 
transaction took the account balance close to its limit. No further transactions or 
attempts were made after the card was cancelled despite there still be an available 
balance which was unusual for fraudulent activity
Overall, the investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr B had authorised 
these transactions.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said the bank should have done more to 
protect his account and stopped the transactions going through.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr B and NatWest have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mr B that Ive read the file, including his comments and 
evidence. 
The basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr B made them or authorised them. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr B can be 
treated as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on his account. And that 
the person to whom the card has been issued must notify the firm which provided the card if 
they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay. 
For each transaction NatWest has been able to provide evidence to show the payments 
were appropriately authenticated using Mr Bs bank card and PIN. But thats not enough to 
hold Mr B liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to the 
transactions. or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr Bs explanation carefully Im afraid Im 
not persuaded by what Mr B has said.  I cant say for sure who was making the payments at 
the Apple stores or food outlets. But on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster was 
responsible. Ive considered what the PSRs say about apparent authority too and Im 
satisfied that Mr B did consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to say NatWest needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
NatWests technical evidence shows that Mr Bs genuine card and PIN were used to 
make to authenticate each of the disputed transactions. This mean that whoever 
made the transactions needed to be in possession of both Mr Bs credit card and his 
PIN
Mr B says he used his credit card and entered his PIN when paying for food and 
drinks at pub on 14 February 2020  the night before the transactions. Hes said the 
pub was very busy with people all around him, so it was quite possible for someone to have seen him enter his PIN into the card machine (known as shoulder surfing). 
Ive considered this. But I dont think its likely that this is what happened. I say this 
because it would mean that the person who saw Mr B enter his PIN would also have 
had to wait for an opportunity to take Mr Bs mobile phone, remove his credit card, 
and then replace his mobile phone, all without Mr B noticing. And I think that is 
unlikely.
The first disputed transaction took place at just after 9.00am the following morning. I 
dont think an opportunistic thief wouldve waited several hours before using Mr Bs 
card because theyd be a high risk of Mr B discovering his card was missing and 
cancelling it before the thief could use it. Its more typical for the card to be used as 
quickly and for as much as possible. But this didnt happen. There were no balance 
enquiries to check the available limit on the card either, which suggests to me that 
whoever used the card knew how much was available to spend. Theres no plausible 
explanation for how an opportunistic thief would be aware of this information
The disputed payments were made over a period of three hours at stores where Mr B 
had previously made genuine transactions. Ive also kept in mind that no further 
transactions were made or attempted after Mr B reported his credit card as lost, 
which again is unusual for fraudulent activity and suggests to me that whoever was 
using the card knew it had been cancelled  from the evidence Ive seen the only 
person aware of this information was Mr B
Ive considered what Mr B has said about CCTV footage. However, whilst Mr B might 
not have appeared in the footage, it doesnt rule out the possibility that he allowed 
someone else to use his card
Mr B has said that the bank should have spotted the transactions and stopped them 
from going through. So, the banks at fault. My primary task has been to decide if 
Mr B authorised the disputed transactions. I cant decide he didnt authorise them just 
because NatWest didnt block the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in 
my view connects him to the disputed transactions. And Ive set this out above. 
So, when I weigh everything up, I find on balance, that Mr B made or otherwise authorised 
the disputed transactions. It follows that NatWest is entitled to hold him liable for them. I 
know Mr B will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive given I cant ask the bank to refund 
him.
Finally, I note that Mr B says hes unhappy that NatWest are asking him to repay the 
disputed transactions and have sent him a default notice. I can appreciate that the situation 
is no doubt stressful for Mr B. But for the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that Mr B 
authorised the transactions, so NatWest is entitled to ask him to repay the money he owes. I 
would however remind NatWest that its obligation to treat a case of financial difficulty in a 
positive and sympathetic manner is an ongoing one; but Mr B also needs to be aware that 
that obligation wont necessarily prevent NatWest from seeking repayment in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman