DRN-3322821
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc hasnt refunded direct debit payments he says 
were made in error. 
What happened
Mr J says he was overcharged by an insurer who told him to contact his bank for a refund. 
When Mr J asked Barclays for a refund under the Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme he 
expected it to be provided within 24 hours. When that didnt happen, Mr J chased Barclays 
for a response, only to be told it needed further information from him before making a 
payment. Mr J disputed the need for this as he didnt think it was required under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee scheme. He complained about the service hed received.
Barclays accepted it should have told Mr J when he first called that it might need further 
information to investigate the claim he made. It said on this occasion further information was 
required and it had sent him a questionnaire to complete and return. It apologised for not 
sending that sooner. It also apologised for the poor communication and credited Mr Js 
account with £75. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this response and asked this service to investigate. He didnt think 
Barclays had followed the Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme correctly and said he shouldnt 
need to provide any further information before a refund is made. He was also unhappy with 
the way Barclays handled his request, including its failure to use his preferred method of 
communication. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to take any further action. He thought it was 
reasonable for Barclays to ask for further information before a refund was paid. And while 
Barclays had made mistakes in the way it had communicated with Mr J, he thought it had 
done enough to apologise and compensate him for not warning about the potential need for 
further information, for the delay in asking for that information and for failing to correspond 
via email.  
As Mr J disagrees with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr J feels strongly about this matter. He thinks Barclays should refund the 
amount he asked for without question. But Im afraid I dont agree that Barclays are 
automatically obliged to comply with his request to refund the direct debit payments. Let me 
explain why.
The purpose of the Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme is to provide protection to customers for 
errors in payments by direct debit. The Scheme provides that if an error is made in the 
payment of a customers direct debit, by a business or organisation, the customer is entitled 
to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from their bank. The Direct Debit 
Guarantee Scheme also makes it clear that its not intended to be used to address 
contractual disputes between a customer and a billing organisation. Ive emphasised this 
wording simply to show that the entitlement to a refund is not absolute. It requires that an 
error is made in the payment of the direct debit. And a bank is not obliged to automatically 
refund direct debit payments just because a customer says theres been an error. Banks are 
entitled to investigate and can decide to refuse to refund any money if the evidence doesnt 
show that errors in payment have been made.
Barclays has told me it asks for further information about a claim for a direct debit refund 
when a customer raises more than six claims within a three-year period. It said Mr J has 
raised a total of eight claims between April 2019 and January 2022 and thats why it decided 
to ask him for further information on this occasion. The Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme 
doesnt specify when a bank or building society should ask for further information but Im 
satisfied the approach taken by Barclays in this case is in keeping with the scheme, which 
makes it clear that it can ask for further information to ascertain the nature of the error and 
confirm that one has indeed occurred. 
So, I think it was fair for Barclays to ask Mr J for further information in this instance. As such, 
I would encourage him to complete the questionnaire its sent him so it can investigate the 
nature of the error and progress his claim for a refund. 
Barclays accepts it made mistakes when dealing with Mr Js claim. It should have warned 
him when he first phoned that it might need to ask for further information. And there was 
then a delay in sending the questionnaire to him. Barclays also failed to correspond by email 
even though that was the method of communication Mr J had requested. I can see how this 
poor service would have added to Mr Js sense of grievance and I think it was right for 
Barclays to apologise. It also credited his account with £75 and I think that amount is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I know this isnt the decision Mr J was hoping for but I think Barclays has acted fairly and 
reasonably in asking for further information when he made his claim for a refund under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme. I also think it acted fairly when it apologised and 
compensated Mr J for the poor service it provided. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already paid £75 to settle the complaint and I think this amount is 
fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman