DRN-2892811
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse all the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs I was contacted by a fraudster pretending to be from HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC). The fraudster told Mrs I she owed around £4,000 in unpaid tax and 
accused her of deliberately avoiding their calls and attempting to flee the country. 
Mrs I disputed owing any money to HMRC and told the fraudster shed not received any 
letters regarding the unpaid tax. The fraudster told her that if it was found that she didnt owe 
any money, she could request a refund - but that if she didnt make the payment now, she 
would be arrested, and all of her assets would be taken away from her.
Mrs I has explained that the fraudster only used her name as verification of where they were 
calling from  but that she was very scared at the time so agreed to make the payments. The 
fraudster told her that if she made the payment in one go, it wouldnt go through, so to make 
the payments in instalments. Mrs I therefore made the following payments from her HSBC 
current account using the mobile banking app:
date payment
8 February 2020 £900
8 February 2020 £950
8 February 2020 £940
8 February 2020 £930 (blocked by HSBC)
8 February 2020 £920 (blocked by HSBC)
All payments were made to the same account, which was held in an individuals name. As 
the final two payment attempts were blocked by HSBC, Mrs I spoke with HSBCs telephone 
fraud department to attempt to release the payments. Mrs I has explained the fraudster had 
told her not to tell HSBC the real reason for the payments, and to only say it was for 
personal reasons. As HSBC was unsatisfied with the reason Mrs I gave for making the 
payment, it refused to release the final two payments until Mrs I had been to a branch. 
Before attending the branch, Mrs I also attempted to make payments through another of her 
banking providers. These payments were blocked and Mrs I has said a member of the 
banks staff advised her shed been the victim of a scam. Mrs I then visited her HSBC branch 
to raise a fraud claim.
HSBC investigated Mrs Is fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Mrs I with a 
refund. HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC has said Mrs I didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making genuine 
payments to HMRC. HSBC considers Mrs I ought to have done more checks to make sure 
the call shed received was genuine. 
However, HSBC did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under the 
CRM Code. It said it could have done more to protect her at the time. HSBC therefore 
refunded 50% of her loss, as per the provisions of the CRM Code.
It also contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt to recover Mrs Is money, but unfortunately 
no funds remained in the account.
Mrs I disagreed with HSBC so brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the case  before issuing his view, he also asked Mrs I for some additional 
information, but didnt receive a response. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint - he 
acknowledged that while Mrs I was undoubtedly put under a lot of stress by the fraudster, in 
the circumstances, she ought to have completed further checks to verify that she was 
genuinely speaking with HMRC. The investigator therefore considered HSBCs offer of a 
50% refund to be fair and in line with the Code. 
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigator, so the case has been referred to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs I, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC 
should have fully reimbursed Mrs I under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect Mrs I from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs I was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was making genuine payments to HMRC and that didnt happen. But this isnt enough, in 
and of itself, for Mrs I to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of 
care on Mrs I too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for HSBC to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, HSBC has accepted it didnt provide an Effective Warning, which is why its 
refunded 50% of the payments Mrs I made. However I think HSBC has been able to 
establish that it may choose not to fully reimburse Mrs I under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the 
CRM Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns HSBC has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mrs I was making are enough to support its position that she 
failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I 
dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
Mrs I has said she missed a call from the fraudsters on an unknown number and returned 
their call once she was available. Its unknown as to whether the fraudsters spoofed 
HMRCs number in order to appear genuine, but in any event, Mrs I doesnt appear to have 
checked the number she was called from to verify this. When speaking to the fraudsters, Mrs 
I has acknowledged the fraudster didnt provide any information to verify themselves, or to 
prove it held information about Mrs I  only providing her name  and again, it doesnt 
appear Mrs I questioned this, or asked the caller to prove where they were calling from.
Mrs I was accused of attempting to flee the country. Knowing this to not be true, I think this 
could have initially rang alarm bells with Mrs I to question what information HMRC would be 
relying on to make such an accusation. Mrs I disputed owing any tax and questioned why 
she hadnt received any letters. Shes explained she owed tax previously which is what 
caused her to think the scam was plausible. However, having owed tax before, Mrs I 
seemed to be aware that HMRC usually correspond by letter. The investigator who 
considered this complaint did ask for more information about how Mrs Is previous unpaid tax 
was handled, and why Mrs I didnt challenge the different approach used this time, but Mrs I 
didnt provide a response. Based on the evidence available and the particular circumstances 
of this case, I think Mrs I shouldve done more to question why the process being followed 
was so vastly different to what Mrs I wouldve most likely experienced previously - and 
caused her to question the legitimacy of the information she was receiving.
I think the method of payment requested by the fraudster was also questionable and should 
reasonably have caused Mrs I concern. Mrs I has said the fraudster told her to pay the 
money owed as a number of smaller payments as her bank would otherwise block the 
transaction, and to not tell her bank what the payments were for if questioned. I think its 
unlikely that an organisation such as HMRC would request for payments to be made in such 
a way to go under the radar of a banks fraud detection systems. I also think Mrs I ought to 
have reasonably questioned why HMRC would tell an individual to lie to their bank about the 
nature of the later blocked payments. With all of the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Mrs 
I ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the call she received and that, in turn, 
ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mrs Is part. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing the call was genuinely 
from HMRC and so fell below the level of care expected of her under the CRM Code.
Should HSBC have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mrs I?
HSBC has already acknowledged it couldve done more to protect Mrs I from the scam  and 
has shared 50% liability with her as a result. However Ive also thought about whether HSBC 
couldve done more to identify the earlier payments as fraudulent.
Ive considered the payments Mrs I made in comparison to her usual pattern of spending. As 
part of the scam, Mrs I made what I consider to be three unremarkable payments  I dont 
think they stood out enough for HSBC to have been concerned that she might have been at 
risk of financial harm from fraud at the time she made them. 
However I think HSBC were right to block the fourth and fifth payments. As all five payment 
attempts were within a short period of time, and to the same payee, I think by the fourth 
payment there was enough for HSBC to question the reason for multiple payments being 
made. Having listened to the call HSBC had with Mrs I, I also think it acted appropriately by 
refusing to process the further payments until Mrs I had visited a branch.
Once it was made aware of the scam, HSBC acted quickly to try to recover the funds for  
Mrs I but unfortunately no funds were recoverable by this time. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have done anything further to recover Mrs Is 
payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBCs position on Mrs Is fraud claim, and its assessment under 
the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And so I dont intend to 
make an award to Mrs I. 
I do sympathise with Mrs I as shes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt 
Mrs I legitimately believed she was making genuine payments to HMRC. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021. 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman