DRN-3177783
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited for two claims 
on her HomeCare policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts about what happened arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the policy refer to reasonable timescales and say: 
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until 
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
A number of issues seem to have affected British Gas ability to visit to repair Mrs Ms 
appliance and heating. The combination of industrial action and the Covid-19 restrictions 
meant British Gas was unable to visit. I think overall that was reasonable, as the Covid-19 
restrictions, in particular, limited the type of visits that were allowed to take place and meant 
that British Gas was primarily dealing with emergencies. British Gas didnt classify any of 
Mrs Ms repairs as an emergency, which having looked at each of the issues, I think was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Mrs M said the Government guidance at the time didnt prohibit home visits, which I 
accept, but it was up to British Gas to make a choice on how it implemented the guidance for 
the safety of its customers and employees. So this was a decision for them, and not one in 
which we get involved. 
Mrs M also reported a breakdown of her boiler whilst she was waiting for British Gas to 
attend to her heating issue. British Gas werent able to send an engineer out sooner than the 
appointment they had already given her, so they said Mrs M could appoint her own engineer 
and they would reimburse her the cost. I think this was the right and reasonable thing to do 
in the circumstances. I can see Mrs M did get the boiler repaired by the third party. Mrs M 
provided the invoice to British Gas and I understand this has now been reimbursed although 
I acknowledge there was a delay in the payment. 
Ive considered that a number of appointments were cancelled and at times little notice was 
given to Mrs M. So I think British Gas could have handled things better here. British Gas 
acknowledged this and initially offered Mrs M £69.50 off the premium she paid for the 
appliance part of the policy and a further £70 as good will. They later increased the offer by a 
further £150 in recognition of the poor service provided. 
I appreciate Mrs M feels the compensation already offered falls short of an acceptable 
amount, given what shes said about the time she and Mr M had to take off work and the 
inconvenience of having to deal with the issues. But when looking to make an award for 
distress and inconvenience we look at the overall impact a business mistake had on the 
complainant  rather than awarding compensation based on units of time or at a 
complainants hourly rate. I see no reason to depart from that approach in this case. 
And as the investigator also explained, the rules we must follow say we arent able to 
consider the impact on Mr M. One of these rules sets out who is eligible to refer complaints 
to our service  this can be found at DISP 2.7. Mr M needs to fall within one of these 
definitions at the time of the complaint for us to be able to look into things that may impact 
him. For Mr M to be eligible to be part of this complaint to us about British Gas, he must fall 
within one of the relationships set out in DISP. These relationships include being a customer 
of the business. In this case Mrs M was the sole policyholder and Mr M isnt a customer of 
British Gas for the purposes of this policy.
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision but its not in this services remit to 
punish a business for providing a poor service. Our awards for distress and inconvenience 
tend to be modest. Looking at the impact this matter has had on Mrs M I think the £289.50 
as compensation is fair and reasonable and in line with what this service would generally 
award in similar circumstances. So I wouldnt ask British Gas to increase this amount.
I also note that Mrs M raised some concerns about the selling practices of British Gas, 
however the information provided doesnt relate to the issues Mrs M has raised about the 
service she received during these two claims. And the information she has given us relates 
to sales of policies earlier this year but as Mrs M purchased her policy some years ago I 
dont think these matters are relevant here either. 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £289.50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that British 
Gas Insurance Limited should pay £289.50 in total to Mrs M if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman