DRN-3379340
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly added legal fees to his
mortgage account after court proceedings had concluded.
What happened
Mr W had a longstanding dispute regarding the payment of ground rent on his property. 
Halifax instructed solicitors when the freeholder started possession proceedings, and these 
legal costs were added to Mr Ws mortgage. Mr W brought a complaint to our service about 
this, but his complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr W says that the legal proceedings were settled in January 2020. But he subsequently 
realised that further legal fees had been added to his mortgage account after that date. Mr W 
complained to Halifax, but Halifax didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary, that its 
solicitors had needed to obtain satisfactory confirmation that the legal proceedings had been 
appropriately concluded before closing their files. So it said that the charges that were 
applied prior to receiving that confirmation had been applied correctly.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. He said that two payments added to his 
mortgage in February 2020 and December 2020 had been charged incorrectly. He also said 
that Halifax had failed to fulfil its obligations in relation to complaints handling. And he was 
unhappy with the way the complaint had been handled by the complaints manager.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think Halifax needed to take any further action. He said, in summary:
He wasnt able to consider the parts of Mr Ws complaint relating to the way in which 
Halifax had dealt with his complaint, as complaint handling is not a regulated activity 
and isnt something that this service has the power to investigate;
Having reviewed the documentation provided to him he was satisfied that there was 
still further action by the solicitors after January 2020, in order to clarify whether the 
dispute had been completely resolved. He didnt think that this was unreasonable.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be
considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 18 February 2022. I said, in summary:
Solicitors fees
I was aware that Mr W had previously complained to this service that Halifax acted 
incorrectly when it added legal costs to his mortgage account. That complaint wasnt 
upheld by the ombudsman. For the avoidance of doubt, my decision did not relate to 
that issue but only to Mr Ws complaint about Halifax adding further legal costs to his 
mortgage account after January 2020, and to his dissatisfaction with the handling of 
his complaint in relation to those further legal fees.
Id seen a copy of a letter dated January 2020 from the freeholders solicitors to the 
Court asking for the proceedings to be withdrawn and the Court record to be marked 
to show that the parties had reached a settlement.
I appreciated that Mr W said that this letter meant that the proceedings were settled 
at that point, and no further fees should have been added after that date. But Halifax 
had also supplied this service with certain internal documentation. I was provisionally 
satisfied from this that Halifax and its solicitors wanted further confirmations to be 
sure that Halifaxs security was protected. I didnt think it was unreasonable for it to 
want this confirmation. And, as our investigator explained, the solicitors were still 
engaged as they were in touch with the freeholders solicitors. I was also 
provisionally persuaded that Halifax had the right to charge the legal costs to Mr Ws 
mortgage account under the terms of the mortgage. So my provisional view was that 
Im not persuaded that Halifax has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Complaint handling
Our investigator had felt that we couldnt look at the way in which Halifax dealt with 
Mr Ws complaint. But my provisional view was that I didnt agree. I was provisionally 
satisfied that I could look at how Halifax dealt with Mr Ws complaint as part of my 
decision about his complaint as a whole.
Mr W had said that Halifax didnt comply with the timeframes set out in its complaints 
procedure. And he supplied copies of correspondence saying that Halifax would 
respond to his complaint within 15 days. But Halifax said that this correspondence 
was sent in error. And I agreed that the correct timeframe under the relevant rules 
was eight weeks. I was provisionally satisfied that Halifax did deal with Mr Ws 
complaint within that timeframe. And so, while I appreciated that Mr W may have 
been confused by the incorrect information, I was provisionally satisfied that Halifax 
complied with its regulatory obligations.
Mr W was also unhappy with the way in which his complaint was dealt with by the 
complaints manager. And Ive listened to two calls he had with the manager on 10 
February 2021. Having done so, while I appreciated that Mr W was unhappy with the 
way in which the complaints manager spoke to him on the telephone my provisional 
view was that she dealt with his call professionally. So this didnt change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has responded to my provisional decision. He says, in summary, that Halifax made no 
effort to conclude proceedings and that nothing happened until he contacted the solicitors 
himself. 
Halifax has also responded to my provisional decision to confirm it has nothing further to 
add.
Ive carefully considered what Mr W has to say but, having done so, I havent been 
persuaded to change my view. As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to want confirmation that its security was protected. And Im 
satisfied that it had been advised by its solicitors that further information was needed from 
the freeholder to be sure of this. So, while I appreciate that Mr W feels that it took a long time for matters to be resolved Im not persuaded that Halifax acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
As Ive not been persuaded to change my decision I confirm it here.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman