DRN-3976350
The complaint
A company which Ill call V complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) treated them 
unfairly by declining a loan application and applying adverse credit information to their credit 
file. 
The complaint is brought on Vs behalf by their director, Mr D.
What happened
V told us:
They approached BOS to apply for the Covid Recovery Loan Scheme (RLS), but it 
said it wasnt offering this and put through an alternative loan request which was 
declined. 
They had tried to appeal but been declined this option by the same person whod 
declined the application which was unfair. 
After their application was declined, they reviewed their credit file and noticed BOS 
was reporting adverse credit information about a missed payment they werent aware 
of. 
They thought they had a mortgage with BOS but hadnt received any statements 
about this and had now been told this was a loan  but they were unable to get any 
information about this except the outstanding balance. They felt this had been mis-
sold.
They wanted all adverse information recorded by BOS removed and this service to 
review the complaints theyd made to BOS about the loans and related information.
BOS told us:
It had fairly declined Vs lending enquiry as their request didnt meet its lending 
criteria and it was behaving in a responsible manner.
V made an enquiry about lending so the decision couldnt be appealed so there 
hadnt been cause for a different person to contact the company about this.
It was satisfied its staff hadnt been trying to sell products and services to V and was 
trying to give V information that would have been helpful including those external to 
the bank.  
Due to the type of loan V held, they didnt receive monthly statements about their 
repayments or the outstanding balance. But they had been given a repayment 
schedule when they took out the loan and they could see if repayments had been 
made from their bank account.
It had sent an automated letter to V in April 2022 to make them aware theyd missed 
their repayment and the account was now in arrears. However, the arrears werent 
cleared until September 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that V had only 
enquired about a loan with BOS, not made a formal application and therefore there was 
nothing to appeal. He also said he was satisfied that it was BOSs process for the person 
making the decision to deliver the outcome. The investigator also noted that V had a loan not 
a mortgage with BOS and therefore didnt receive statements, and he was satisfied that the 
bank had reported accurate credit information as V had missed a loan repayment.
V didnt agree. They said they thought they had a mortgage with the bank but hadnt been 
given any information about the loan except the balance. They also said they hadnt been 
notified of any arrears for six months - and had actually been told by BOS on a call that there 
werent any  so as soon as they were made aware of the missing repayment, they cleared 
this immediately. They also believed BOS had been trying to sell them different products 
rather than what they wanted. So, they asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
V is unhappy with both BOSs decision to decline its enquiry for lending, and that they 
couldnt appeal this decision. They believe they have been treated unfairly and they also 
think that BOS was more interested in selling them other products then helping with their 
loan request. But I dont agree. Its a commercial decision that BOS is able to make on 
whether or not to lend to a customer and how it undertakes and communicates this decision. 
However, in doing so, it must take into consideration its legal and regulatory obligations. 
BOS has shared with us the information on which its decision was based, and based on 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied it acted reasonably when declining Vs loan request. 
I recognise that V is unhappy they couldnt appeal this decision with a different member of 
BOSs staff. However, BOS has told us that its process here was for the person whod 
received the enquiry to respond to further contact as theyd dealt with the original enquiry, 
and I think this is reasonable. But even if I did think BOS should have asked for another 
member of staff to look at what V wanted, I dont think it would have made any difference as 
the bank has said V didnt meet its lending criteria, and its provided this service with 
evidence to show this. 
V has asked that all record of this declined application be removed from their credit file. 
However, BOS has told us that because this was only raised as an enquiry and not an 
application, there would be no record of its decision to decline further lending on Vs credit 
file. I also heard BOS explain this to Mr D, that this was the reason the decision couldnt be 
appealed. I think its likely that BOS chose to review Vs request in an informal manner as 
this meant the bank didnt register a formal application, and then subsequent decline for 
finance on Vs credit file. Therefore, I dont think BOS treated V unfairly here, and I dont 
think it needs to take any further action.
Ive also listened to the call where V approached BOS for further lending, and Im not 
persuaded it was trying to sell them alternative products. Mr D told the bank that he was 
looking at different lending options and enquired about the RLS, but BOS explained this 
scheme had ended so it couldnt provide this. The adviser undertook a full review of Vs 
position and during that conversation asked if V was interested in being referred to what 
appears to be a partner insurance broker. The adviser also explained why BOS couldnt lend 
but explained there were alternative sites (including a government referral scheme) that may 
assist V with their lending requirements. So, I think the adviser was simply trying to provide 
V with various options due to the information Mr D had provided.
V told us that they thought they had a mortgage with the bank, not a loan  but Im not 
persuaded thats the case. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the agreement signed by 
Mr D on Vs behalf which says they wish to apply for a fixed rate loan and agreed to the 
fixed rate loan terms within the signature part of the agreement. The agreement is also clearly headed Loan facilities and new loan proposal. I havent seen any reference to a 
mortgage throughout the document and the agreement also says if V isnt sure if this is right 
for them, they should seek financial advice. So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied it was 
clear that the agreement V signed was for a fixed rate loan.
V also says that BOS has behaved unreasonably because they havent received any 
statements for the fixed rate loan, so they werent aware of any arrears. They say they made 
up the missing repayment as soon as they were told by the bank. However, BOS has told us 
that due to the type of loan agreement entered into by V, they dont receive monthly or 
annual statements as they received a term statement when signing the agreement. This 
provided V with a breakdown of the loan balance for the whole term as there would have 
been no changes to the monthly repayments during the term. However, BOS has provided 
an audit showing the date that an automatically generated letter was sent to V to say that 
theyd missed their repayment and the loan was now in arrears. It has also provided a copy 
of the letter.  
Ive also seen a copy of Vs bank account statement which showed they had insufficient 
funds to make the repayment, and that their loan repayment had been returned. BOS has 
told us that V would have been able to see this on their bank statements which were sent by 
post, and online and mobile banking. So even if V didnt receive regular statements about 
their loan, I think the company ought to have been reasonably aware from the other 
information that they had received, that they hadnt made their contractual loan repayment 
as expected. 
V told us that they believe their credit score has decreased because BOS unfairly reported 
the missed fixed loan repayment, and thats also the reason why their lending request was 
declined. But I dont agree. I say that because Ive seen Vs Bounce Back Loan statement 
which shows that the company had payments returned and missed on their other loan with 
BOS. Ive also seen that BOS also told V that their general account running needed to be 
improved for it to consider future lending. Even if I thought that BOS should have made V 
aware of the arrears on their fixed rate loan, Im not persuaded that the missed repayment 
was the sole reason for the banks decision or the decrease in the companys credit score.  
I recognise that Mr D feels strongly about Vs complaint, and hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think BOS did anything wrong here, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman