DRN-2942771
The complaint
 Miss L has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
 
What happened
 TFS Loans provided Miss L with a loan of £7,500 in April 2017. This loan had a 60-months 
term with a monthly repayment amount of £293.19. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £17,591.40 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided this loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. TFS 
Loans disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss Ls complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When TFS Loans lent to Miss L, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Miss Ls creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Miss L wouldnt make the repayments 
under the agreement when due, and the risk to Miss L of not being able to make these 
repayments. In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Miss Ls ability to make repayments 
under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to 
borrow to meet the repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a 
contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ls case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Ls loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
I can see from the documents TFS Loans have submitted that it verified Miss Ls income by 
asking her for payslips. Miss L declared her income to be £3100 a month but TFS Loans 
used a figure of £2779.88 that it said came from verifying from the 6 payslips she submitted. 
It also asked Miss L about her expenses and used a credit search to check for her credit 
commitments. It says after it did this, it worked out that Miss Ls disposable income was 
£1754.54 after it factored in the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Miss L to have a significant proportion of her monthly wages left over as disposable income. 
But like our investigator, this assessment for me didnt correlate with what TFS Loans would 
have seen in the credit search that it carried out. Miss L had a historic default from 2013 on a 
loan. When I have looked at the details on this, I can see that there was still a large 
outstanding balance, at the time Miss L asked for this loan. In addition, she had fairly 
recently missed a payment on her communications account, was in her overdraft, was up to 
her credit limit on a credit card and had just taken out a short-term loan within a few weeks 
of asking for this loan. In addition to this Miss L had declared that she was repaying a 
monthly amount on an outstanding County Court Judgement (CCJ). This was not recorded 
down on the credit search. So, the findings from the credit search and also Miss Ls 
declaration didnt add up with the assessment that it had made and the disposable income 
that it had worked out Miss L had. I think there are enough discrepancies here for TFS 
Loans to want to find out more about the true extent of Miss Ls finances.
When I think about what I have just concluded and also the amount Miss L was borrowing, 
the total cost and length of the loan (5 years), I think TFS Loans should have carried out a 
complete review of her finances to see whether the loan repayments were sustainable over 
the life of the loan, this would include verifying her expenditure in more detail.  As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Miss L with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Miss L 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Miss L would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Miss L has provided bank statements to our service from a short period of time leading up to 
when the loan was granted, and Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having 
done so, its clear Miss L was gambling significant amounts of money in relation to how 
much she was earning, leading up to the date when she applied for the loan.  
Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown TFS Loans that Miss L would not have been able to repay this 
loan in a sustainable manner as the information she has provided shows she was having 
problems managing her finances. In particular her gambling transactions were such that she 
was paying out more than she was earning. On balance, I think it would have become 
apparent to TFS that the loan repayments wouldnt have been sustainable over the life time 
of the loan. So, Im satisfied that its failure to carry out proportionate checks resulted in it 
unfairly providing this loan to Miss L.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ls complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss L made, direct to TFS Loans and any third-parties, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £7,500 originally lent. 
If there is a balance still to be repaid, then TFS loans will need to exercise 
forbearance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss L.
If Miss L has already repaid more than £7,500.00 then TFS Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss L;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss L to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman