DRN-2665883
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) delayed in recalling a payment after she was 
told she had sent it to the wrong account. She also complains that Metro carried out an 
investigation into her account activity, and she feels Metro discriminated against her.
Mrs O brings this complaint on behalf of her company, O Limited. 
What happened
On 14 February 2019, Mrs O made a payment of £54,796 to a customer of O Limited. It was 
sent by Faster Payment, which means the payment credits the receiving bank almost 
immediately. On 18 February 2019, Mrs O called Metro to ask for the payment to be 
reversed. She said the customer had told her she hadnt received the funds, didnt ask for 
them to be sent and that the account details used didnt belong to her.
Metro said the payment had been made at 2:30pm on 14 February, but that it would attempt 
to recall the money and that it would respond within 21 days.
On 26 February 2019, Metro received a response from the receiving bank to say the recall 
had been unsuccessful in recalling the funds as the account only had a balance of £50.17. 
Metro wrote to Mrs O on 4 May 2019 to confirm as much. Mrs O felt Metro had delayed in 
attempting to recall the funds, but it didnt accept responsibility.
On 27 Jun 19, Mrs O attempted to make a cash deposit at her local branch. She was asked 
to provide identification and evidence to support O Limiteds entitlement to the funds. Mrs O 
objected to being asked questions about the cash deposit and complained, saying she felt 
Metro was discriminating against her on the grounds of race. 
Metro later asked further questions about the nature of O Limiteds business dealings and 
the activity on its account. Metro apologised for the frustration Mrs O experienced as a result 
of dealing with the questions, but explained it had raised the questions as part of its 
procedures, and that it was complying with its regulatory obligations.
On 5 September 2019, Metro wrote to O Limited saying it had completed a review of its 
account and had decided it was unable to continue to act as O Limiteds bankers. It gave O 
Limited 60 days notice, but didnt explain the reasons for its decision.
Because Metro couldnt resolve Mrs Os complaint, she brought it to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He was satisfied Metro had acted promptly in 
seeking to recall the funds and he felt Metro was entitled to ask O Limited the questions it 
did, and close the account in the manner it did.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said Metro had demanded that every transaction from O Limiteds 
account be made in person, which meant Mrs O had to carry out various administrative 
tasks, instead of her usual more productive work. She said Metro had asked to see several 
forms of identification every time she banked. She felt Metros requests were unnecessary 
as O Limited had always had an amicable relationship with Metro in the past. She also found 
Metros enquiries embarrassing due to Metros open plan branches, and said shed been 
racially profiled.
As to the funds recall, she said Metro took over four months to activate the investigation.
Finally, on the point of the account closure, Mrs O detailed the disruption caused to O 
Limited as a result of having to open a new account with a different provider. The account 
closure had also made it difficult for Mrs O to obtain evidence to support the various claims 
from her customer that she had to defend. She said O Limiteds image with its insurers had 
been damaged and that Metro had failed to support O Limited when it most needed support.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Funds recall
I understand Mrs O feels Metro didnt act fast enough when she reported the fraudulent 
payment. And I can see communications between Metro and the receiving bank continued 
long after the recall was made. However, as to the recall itself, Im satisfied Metro did act 
promptly. Ive seen evidence that shows Metro filed the recall at 16:50 on 18 February 2019, 
and that it received a response from the receiving bank eight days later saying the recall had 
been unsuccessful, and that all but £50.17 had been withdrawn from the account.
Because the payment was made by Faster Payment, it is received almost instantly by the 
receiving bank. So, any delay at all in requesting a recall runs the risk of failure. With 
fraudulent payments, as appears to be the case here, fraudsters often withdraw funds on 
receipt. So, its no surprise that the money had left the account four days later. And while its 
not Mrs Os fault that she raised the query four days after the payment had been made, its 
also not Metros. And Im satisfied it acted quickly in completing the request for a return 
when Mrs O raised it, so I wont ask it to do anything further in that regard.
Account investigation
I appreciate Mrs O found Metros line of questioning intrusive, and I understand why she was 
unhappy that Metro wanted to know so much about her account activity, after years of 
uninterrupted banking. However, I have to balance that against the fact that banks must 
sometimes carry out an investigation into their customers activities in order to ensure they 
are complying with their various legal and regulatory obligations. 
In terms of discrimination, its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or 
not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Metro has breached the Equality Act 
2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst 
other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
With that in mind, Ive thought about whether or not Metro has acted in a fair and reasonable 
way in all the circumstances of this complaint. I consider that Metro has, for the following reasons. I appreciate Mrs O felt the block was connected to her race, but as Ive said, 
businesses like Metro are entitled to review accounts in line with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when administering their accounts. 
This helps Metro fulfil its obligations and ensure it safeguards both itself and the customer. 
The type of questions asked is dependent upon many factors including the product/service 
that is being provided, various laws and regulations.
Having reviewed what Metro and Mrs O have said, Im satisfied Metro was acting in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed O Limiteds account. 
And that it was entitled to review O Limiteds account under the account terms and 
conditions in the manner it did. So, I cant say it acted unfairly in doing so. 
Because of that, Im not going to ask it to compensate Mrs O for any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused. Or for any losses O Limited suffered as a result.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account  which both Metro and Mrs O had to comply with  
say that it could close the account with two months notice, under certain circumstances. 
There is no obligation to confirm the reason for the closure. Having considered the evidence 
Ive been provided, Im satisfied that Metro acted in accordance with its terms and conditions 
when it closed O Limiteds account.
I recognise the account closure caused O Limited inconvenience, but because Metro was 
entitled to close the account, I wont ask it to compensate O Limited for that inconvenience.
In summary, I understand Mrs Os frustration at the situation and I know she will be 
disappointed with the outcome. But, having looked at all of the available evidence, I cant say 
that Metro did anything wrong in reviewing and closing O Limiteds account, or in processing 
Mrs Os request for a recall. So, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O Limited to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman