DRN-3467828
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain Santander UK plc (Santander) took too long to assess their 
mortgage application meaning they missed the temporary reduced stamp duty deadline, and 
also incurred other unnecessary costs.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C says they applied in April 2021 to Santander for a new mortgage via their 
broker, as they were looking to buy a larger property in their joint names. Mrs C and Mr C 
says they wished to keep a mortgage with Santander, previously held in Mr Cs sole name, 
to avoid paying any early repayment charges (ERC) and were looking to take advantage of 
the reduced stamp duty period ending in late June 2021. 
Mr C says Santander offered a much smaller amount than was required and this was due to 
the ownership of the business and how long it had traded. Mr C says there was an error 
made by his broker on the application, but this was rectified. Even so the mortgage request 
was declined and in Mr Cs view that was always going to be the case, and Santander could 
have made that decision much earlier. Mrs C and Mr C says because Santander took so 
long over making its lending decision, it meant they had missed the beneficial stamp duty 
deadline, incurred extra costs for his tax affairs and was left to pay an ERC, this Mr C says 
has cost him around £30,000. Mr C says this has been a very stressful period, especially for 
his wife and wants Santander to compensate them for this.
Santander says the mortgage application submitted by Mrs Cs and Mr Cs broker contained 
conflicting information about both the shareholding of the business Mr C owned and the joint 
incomes, compared to the evidence provided, which meant it couldnt offer the mortgage 
amount being requested. Santander says the broker was kept informed of the timescales 
involved to approve such an application, and this was made more challenging by the short-
term stamp duty deadline. 
Santander also says the broker had advised initially Mr Cs business hadnt been impacted 
by Covid, but it had. In addition, Santander says the broker should have been aware of its 
policy for self-employed applicants who had been affected by Covid, and it would be unable 
to consider any business income, until it had been trading for a full three years. Santander 
says the ERC charged was detailed in the mortgage offer Mr C had signed and as he had 
moved to a new lender, it was correct to charge it. 
Mrs C and Mr C werent happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that Santander had made a commercial decision not to approve the 
mortgage in line with its lending criteria and provided an explanation for this. The investigator 
says it was reasonable for Santander to check affordability when looking at the mortgage 
application. 
The investigator says there were inconsistencies on the mortgage application by the broker 
including income levels, shareholding, the number of years Mr Cs business had traded and 
the impact of Covid on both applicants. The investigator felt despite the brokers request to 
appeal the decision by Santander, it was entitled to decline the application when it did in 
June 2021. The investigator felt Santander had correctly applied the ERC and this was 
detailed in Mr Cs 2019 mortgage offer document and it was payable as Mrs C and Mr C had 
decided to move to another lender. 
Mrs C and Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and stressful for Mrs C and Mr C to learn their 
mortgage application had been declined and they would now miss out on the beneficial 
stamp duty deadline, ending in June 2021. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander took longer than it should have 
when declining Mrs Cs and Mr Cs mortgage request, acted fairly in doing so and fairly 
charged the ERC when it did. I should say that no mortgage advice was provided to Mrs C 
and Mr C by Santander, as this mortgage application was conducted via their broker. 
Mrs Cs and Mr Cs complaint centres around three main issues, the time Santander took to 
finally decline their mortgage application and if that was a fair decision, missing the 
beneficial stamp duty deadline as a result of this, and other costs they incurred including an 
ERC it charged in excess of £7,000. 
From the information provided to this service I can see that a mortgage application was 
submitted by Mrs Cs and Mr Cs broker in late April 2021. From what I can see its fair to say 
this application detailed some inaccuracies. 
I say this because the application stated Mr C had owned his business for over 10 years, his 
income was £100,000 per annum, his wifes income was £30,000 and the business hadnt 
been impacted by Covid. However, from the file notes I have seen over the course of some 
weeks in May 2021, Santander challenged these points with Mrs Cs and Mr Cs broker, as 
the evidence they obtained differed from the application, at which time the broker admitted 
there were errors on the certification it had provided to Santander. Based on these 
anomalies, Santander told Mrs Cs and Mr Cs broker at the end of May 2021, the maximum 
mortgage advance it could offer fell short of the amount requested. 
I can also see from the file notes provided by Santander on 10 June 2021, it queried with the 
broker the ownership of Mr Cs business and whether the applicants had been affected by 
Covid. Its reasonable to say, in all likelihood this was an attempt to understand if Santander 
had the correct information, and when these points were clarified by the broker, despite an 
appeal it then declined the mortgage request. 
Its important to say here its part of Santanders lending policy that it must have three full 
years trading history of a business if that business had been impacted by the Covid 
pandemic. Here, initially Santander was informed by Mrs Cs and Mr Cs broker the business 
hadnt been affected. But that wasnt the case, and this was subsequently confirmed to the broker by Mrs C and Mr Cs accountants and supported by the fact Mr C had earlier in 2020, 
taken a Covid payment holiday.
Its not for me to tell Santander what its policy on lending to self-employed business owners 
affected by Covid should be, and it was for the broker to have clarified this with them at the 
outset if unsure. Santander says the broker should have been aware of its policy on this 
point, and Im satisfied this is why Santander asked about any Covid impact in the mortgage 
application, the broker completed. With that in mind I cant say that the delays in getting to 
the decision to decline the mortgage application was solely down to Santander here, in fact I 
cant see that it ever agreed to provide the full mortgage requested and this was first made 
known to the broker acting for Mrs C and Mr C within a reasonable length of time, here in 
late May 2021. 
So given that, I cant hold Santander responsible for the fact Mrs C and Mr C missed the 
beneficial stamp duty deadline of the end of June 2021, as it hadnt been provided with the 
full information it needed to make a final lending decision, until mid- June 2021, when the 
broker finally clarified the business ownership details and the fact it had been impacted by 
the Covid pandemic. 
As far as the ERC being charged is concerned, as the investigator has pointed out, this was 
detailed in the mortgage offer Mr C agreed to back in November 2019 and given his 
mortgage was redeemed before the expiry of the fixed interest rate product, the ERC was 
correctly charged. 
Mrs C and Mr C felt they had no other option than to change lenders, who agreed the 
mortgage they needed fairly quickly. But its fair to say lenders set their own mortgage 
criteria and its not my role to tell Santander it must adopt similar lending criteria. Its also 
reasonable to assume the new lenders had the correct financial information it needed from 
the outset and Santander didnt here, which I am satisfied was the main cause behind the 
time it took for the mortgage application to be declined. It follows, while Mrs C and Mr C will 
be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Santander here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman