DRN-3811662
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Domestic & General Insurance plc (D&G) unfairly refused to 
meet the costs to replace a damaged housing unit following fire damage after repairs were 
done to her oven under her warranty policy. 
What happened
Miss R owned a warranty policy with D& G. The product is designed to provide cover for 
breakdown and accidental damage to an appliance - in this case Miss Rs oven - after the 
manufacturer guarantee period has ended. 
Miss R reported a breakdown fault with her oven to D&G in February, April and June 2022. 
Arrangements were made in early July 2022 for an engineer to repair Miss Rs oven. Miss R 
was unavailable on 15 July 2022 due to having surgery and so an alternative date was 
arranged for 25 July 2022. 
Miss R provided video footage to show that as soon as she tried to use her oven following 
the repairs on 25 July 2022, there was smoke coming from it. Miss R provided video footage 
and photos to show the oven with smoke coming from it and burn damage to the oven 
housing unit.
D&G agreed to arrange for Miss Rs oven to be replaced by the end of July 2022. And it paid 
Miss R £100 compensation which it said was a goodwill gesture. But it didnt agree to meet 
the costs to repair the housing unit. It said this was outside of the cover under the policy. 
Our Investigator thought D&G should meet the costs to repair the housing unit as Miss R 
was unable to use the replacement oven she received at the end of July 2022. He found that 
despite a number of attempted repairs, there seemed to be an underlying issue not picked 
up by the engineer(s) which led to the fire damage and he didnt think it fair for Miss R to 
meet these costs. 
The Investigator thought D&G should pay Miss R an additional £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
The Investigator thought D&G should have allowed Miss R to choose a different make and 
model for replacement. D&G clarified that Miss R did choose the replacement oven - which 
on checking with Miss R, she agreed. 
Miss R accepted the Investigators view. D&G didnt agree. In summary it says it acted over 
and above the terms of the policy. It says it is for Miss R to make a claim under her home 
insurance policy for the damage to the housing unit caused by a faulty appliance - as the 
policy excludes covering damage in these circumstances. 
So D&G wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D&G says that the damage the housing unit wasnt caused by an engineer, but by the oven 
being faulty, which isnt covered under the policy. 
D&Gs Insurance Product Information Document provides a summary of what is and isnt 
insured under the policy. It says it doesnt insure the following: 
costs arising from not being able to use your product or damage to other property
Loss, cosmetic damage, neglect or deliberate damage
Costs for replacing any accessories, installation and disposal.
D&Gs key policy wording for the circumstances of Miss Rs claim says:
Remember, your policy covers you for breakdowns and accidental damage, and if 
were unable to fix your oven then we will replace it for you.
And; 
Disposal, delivery, installation and other costs
1: We will pay the delivery charges for any replacement arranged under this policy.
2: If your appliance is replaced, you will need to arrange the disposal of the replaced 
appliance. We will dispose of the replaced appliance if it is in our possession. 
3: In all cases you will be responsible for installing the new appliance and paying any 
related costs
What happens if your appliance is replaced? 
If we arrange to replace your appliance (or to pay a settlement towards a 
replacement), your policy will end immediately. No fee paid will be refunded. 
And:
Exclusions 
Costs or loss arising from not being able to use your appliance (e.g. hiring a 
replacement), or incidental costs caused by a breakdown or repair (e.g. costs to 
remove or reinstate built-in or fitted equipment 
Damage to any other property or possessions, unless it is our fault
D&G says that there tends to be two types of damage: damage caused by an engineer for 
example knocking something over or damaging flooring while carrying out repairs. The 
examples would be covered under the policy. 
However, D&G says that the second type of damage would be related to the appliance being 
faulty: as in this case, the oven caused smoke damage. D&G says this type of damage isnt 
covered under the policy as it wasnt caused by the engineer. As the damage was allegedly 
caused by smoke coming from the oven, this isnt the engineers fault and is clearly excluded 
under the terms of the policy. 
While I agree that the terms of the policy exclude damage to parts of the home that house an 
appliance that requires replacement, the fact remains that the appliance had repairs 
previously carried out which didnt repair it. On the final set of repairs, smoke damage was 
caused to Miss Rs home when trying to use the oven immediately after repairs. D&G - by 
agreeing to replace the oven - accept that it wasnt repairable. It doesnt seem fair for Miss R 
to have to meet the costs in this case for repairs to the housing unit in order to have a 
replacement oven fitted. 
So I think D&Gs handling of the claim could have been better. Miss R explained that being 
unable to use her oven because of a damaged housing unit has caused her and her family significant distress and inconvenience. Ive kept in mind the fact that D&G has already paid 
Miss R £100 compensation. But I think a fair compensation award in addition to meeting the 
costs to repair the housing unit is £150.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Domestic & General Insurance plc 
to do the following:
Ensure Miss Rs housing unit for a replacement oven is either repaired or 
replaced from smoke damage.
Pay Miss R£150 compensation in addition to what its already paid for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Domestic & General Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman