DRN-3144525
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS)
failed to respond in a proper and timely manner when they made a claim under their home
emergency insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B had a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by DAS for a
tenanted property they owned. On 5 December 2020, their tenant told them that four radiator
valves were leaking in the property. The following morning Mr B contacted DAS to ask it to
assist him under the policy.
He told DASs representative that he had tried to stop the leaking from the valves but
couldnt. One of the leaks was a bit heavy and was going into the garage below and causing
internal damage. He said there were no vulnerable persons in the property.
DAS arranged for an engineer to attend at 1.00 pm the same day. It seems he decided that
because of the age of the system it would have to be drained down and new piping and
valves fitted. He said he would arrange for a quote to be given to DAS for the work required.
For the next few days, Mr B kept contacting DAS to ask for an update. He told DAS that
water was continuing to leak, and the reduced pressure meant that there was now no
heating or hot water. He said his tenants had a six month old baby. DAS continued to try to
get a quote from its contractor without success.
Mr B pressed DAS to allow him to use his own engineer, and then recover the cost of the
work from DAS up to the maximum allowed under the policy - £500. Eventually, on Thursday
10 December 2020 DAS confirmed Mr B could do this. He arranged for his own engineer to
replace the valves and DAS refunded £500 of the cost in line with the policy terms.
Mr B complained to DAS about its delay in dealing with the leak while his tenant was without
hot water and heating. He said his tenant had complained to the Council about this and so
he had refunded his rent for December. He said that the interior of the property had been
damaged by the continued leaking. He asked DAS to pay him £1,500 as compensation for
this damage and the trouble he went through.
DAS accepted Mr B had received poor service, having experienced delays, lack of updates,
misinformation, and not having received call backs when promised. It offered him £100, later
increased to £150, as compensation for this.
However, it didnt accept that the damage suffered by the property was as a result of the
delays in authorising Mr B to carry out repairs. It said the property had already been
damaged by the leaks when its engineer first attended. So Mrs B and Mr B complained to
us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said DASs
engineer had said he checked the whole system and tightened the valves that were leaking.
So he saw no leaks when he left the property that day. He also said Mr B told him not to
drain the whole system.
In his initial call to DAS, Mr B had said one valve was leaking very fast into other parts of the
property. So the investigator thought the property would have been damaged before the
engineer arrived, and she hadnt seen sufficient evidence to show further issues were
caused by the engineers actions, or the delays by DAS.
She also noted that the invoices Mr B had produced were dated 18 December 2020. So she
thought there had been further delay by Mr B before the leaking was stopped. She thought
the £150 compensation DAS had offered was reasonable in the circumstances and didnt
recommend that DAS should have to do anything more.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
what the engineer now said about what happened on his visit was untrue. He hadnt 
touched any part of the system, only taken some photos;
his complaint was about DAS failing to tell him whether or not it was going to do 
anything more for a period of 5 days;
because of this 5 days delay, the floor of the property and the ceiling below had been 
damaged;
his engineer had repaired the valves on 11 December 2020, the day after DAS gave 
authorisation. The invoices for the materials were dated later because the engineer 
had a credit account with the supplier; and
he asked that we obtain and listen to recordings of the phone calls between him and 
DAS for the relevant period, which he said would support his complaint.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision to Mrs B and Mr B, and to DAS, on 28 September 2021. In it 
I said Id asked DAS to supply all the recorded calls between it and Mr B between 6 and 10
December 2020. It had supplied a total of 12 calls, which Id listened to. 
Having done so, I said it was clear that Mr B had been pressing DAS for action. For 
example, on 8 December 2020, he told DAS the property was without heating and hot water 
and there were small children resident. He wanted DAS to isolate the leaking radiators so 
the rest of the system could operate.
DAS told him it wasnt a simple job because of the age of the system. It had to do the whole
work, not just a part. It was expecting a quote for the work within 24 hours. On 9 December
2020, there were a lot of calls back and forth, during which Mr B mentioned more than once 
that the engineer hadnt actually done anything to the valves or system during his visit. 
Finally, at 5.00 pm on the afternoon of 10 December 2020, DAS confirmed to Mr B that he 
could use his own tradesman, and DAS would reimburse the cost up to £500.
I said that where, as in this complaint, the evidence available was incomplete or was 
contradictory, I needed to establish, on the balance of probabilities, what I thought was most 
likely to have happened.
On the question of what the engineer did during his visit on 6 December 2020, I noted that 
the entry filed by the engineer on DASs record system on the day of his visit was as follows:x4 twin entry rad valves are leaking. Valves need to be replaced with normal rad valves.
This will need a full drain down and all rads will need to be repiped for new valves
I said it wasnt until after Mr B had made his complaint, and DAS went back to the engineer 
for further information, that the engineer said he had tightened the valves and Mr B had 
insisted the system shouldnt be drained. In the meantime, Mr B had told DAS in phone calls 
that the engineer hadnt done anything to the system, but had just taken photos.
On balance, given the wording of the contemporary entry in DASs system, I thought Mr Bs
evidence about this was more likely to be correct. So, on balance, I didnt think the engineer 
did anything to the system, or that Mr B told him not to drain the system.
Mr B had told DASs representative on the first call on 6 December 2020 that one of the 
leaks was a bit heavy and was going into the garage below and causing internal damage. So 
I thought it was clear that damage had been caused before the engineer attended. In 
addition, Mr B had said he tried to get the engineer to go and look at the damage which had 
already occurred to the garage below, but he refused.
Mr B had said before the engineers visit, he managed to reduce the flow from the leaks
by wrapping towels round the valves, but this hadnt stopped the leaks completely. I thought
Mr B could reasonably have expected that DAS would be in a position to arrange the 
completion of the required work, or to authorise Mr B to carry it out himself within, at most, 2 
days from the engineers visit  that is by 8 December 2020. However, it took a further 2 
days after that until DAS authorised him to complete the work himself on 10 December 2020.
On balance, I thought the damage to the property from the leaks had largely been caused by 
the time the engineer attended. I said I hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that the delay in 
DAS authorising Mr B to repair the valves resulted in the cost of repairing the damage to the
property increasing. So I couldnt reasonably require DAS to meet the cost of these repairs.
I did think the additional delay after Mr B could reasonably have expected action by DAS,
and its general poor handling of his claim, which it had acknowledged, caused Mr B distress
and inconvenience beyond what would normally be anticipated by the leaking valves. I didnt
think the sum of £150 offered by DAS adequately recognised this. Instead of this, I thought
appropriate compensation for this was £350.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS didnt make any response to my provisional decision.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
he wanted DAS to compensate him for the damage to the property caused between 
5 and 10 December 2020;
DASs engineer had made a fake report about the work he did when he attended the 
property;
because he had a home emergency policy with DAS, it should have provided a quick 
service either to carry out a repair or to authorise him to do the work himself. But it 
failed to do anything for 5 days; and
he didnt agree that the damage to his house occurred before DASs involvement. He 
thought DAS was responsible for all the damage.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view remains as set out in my provisional decision. Although on balance 
I accept what Mr B says about what the engineer did or didnt do on his visit to the house, 
this isnt something I can punish DAS for. 
I remain of the view that the property had already suffered damage from the leak by the time 
of the engineers visit, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that DASs delay in 
authorising Mr B to carry out repairs increased the cost of these repairs. So I cant 
reasonably require DAS to meet the cost of these repairs.
I do think DASs delay in authorising Mr B to carry out the repairs, and its general poor 
handling of his claim, mean that it should pay Mrs B and Mr B jointly compensation of £350 
rather than the £150 it has offered them.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think DAS should pay the compensation set out in my final decision 
below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs B and Mr B jointly £350 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused them.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman