DRN-3536509
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse him for transfers made from 
his account which he says he didnt authorise. 
The complaint is being brought to us by Mr Ls parents, Mr L1 and Mrs L. But for ease of 
reading, Ill only refer to Mr L.
What happened
Mr L holds a current account and savings account with Barclays. In April 2021, Mr L received 
a credit of approximately £11,500 into his savings account. 
Shortly after, between 5 May and 9 June 2021, the majority of Mr Ls savings were 
transferred to his current account. These were then followed by 58 transfers totalling 
£11,460 mostly to a crypto exchange company and to some third parties. There were also 
two debit card transactions amounting to around £250 which Mr L didnt recognise. 
Mr L reported these transactions to Barclays. He believes that his mobile phone was 
somehow cloned or hacked. He explained there were over 100 text messages to parties not 
in his contacts which werent sent by him. He contacted the crypto exchange company and 
confirmed the account wasnt set up in his own name. He also said that he didnt recognise 
the third-party beneficiaries.
Barclays refunded the disputed debit card transactions, but they declined Mr Ls claim on the 
disputed transfers. They said the disputed transfers were completed using Mr Ls mobile 
phone which had been used to make genuine logins and payments. They said the mobile 
banking application was accessed using Touch ID and passcode and they couldnt establish 
a point of compromise or find evidence of third-party involvement.
Unhappy with this, Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint as he thought Mr L authorised the transactions himself. Mr L disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules, Barclays can hold Mr L liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Ive looked at the technical evidence provided by Barclays. It shows that Mr Ls account was 
accessed using the same mobile phone device used to log on to the account and carry out 
genuine transactions. 
It also shows that the access to Mr Ls mobile banking application was made by Touch ID 
and Passcode. Touch ID is either fingerprint or Face ID. So, Im satisfied the disputed 
transfers out of Mr Ls account were authenticated.
But this alone isnt enough to say that Mr L is liable for the transactions. I also need to be 
satisfied that based on the evidence, its likely that Mr L made the transfers himself or 
otherwise authorised them.
Mr L has confirmed that his mobile phone was still in his possession, and it only had his 
Touch ID on the device. He also has Touch ID set up on his mobile phone and if that fails, 
he has a passcode. Hes said that no one knows his passcode for his mobile phone or 
mobile banking application and isnt written or stored anywhere.
Hes also said that he doesnt have any recollections of any phishing calls or text messages 
which might have resulted in him giving a fraudster permission to access his online banking 
without his knowledge. He says he hasnt been a victim of a scam.
So, its hard to understand how anyone else couldve carried out the transactions given what 
Mr L has said and considering the evidence which shows that his account was accessed 
using his Device ID, Touch ID and passcode while he was still in possession of the device.
Ive thought about the explanation Mr L has provided about his mobile phone being 
compromised either by cloning or hacking. Hes explained that a cloned mobile phone would 
show the same Device ID as his genuine device. 
But based on what Ive seen, I think this is unlikely in this situation. I say this because if a 
fraudster had cloned or hacked into Mr Ls mobile phone as hes suggested, then it would 
mean they had full access to his accounts. 
And if that were the case, then I think its most likely that the fraudster wouldve drained all 
the funds from Mr Ls accounts as quickly as possible rather than over a period of six weeks. 
I think a fraudster would want to maximise gain before the account holder could discover the 
fraudulent activity and notify their bank to put a block on the account.
Mr L has said that the payments followed a testing the water pattern as they start off small 
and spaced out and then increase in value and frequency.
I dont think its likely that a fraudster would want to test to see if the payments would be 
noticed. Doing so would mean theyd run the risk of being exposed and their access to the 
account removed  thereby minimising their financial gain.
The statements show the transactions were carried out over several smaller payments 
between 5 May and 31 May 2021. And there were some days where no withdrawals were 
attempted which I think would be unusual given that the fraudster didnt know when their 
access to Mr Ls accounts would be removed.
Mr L has said there are over a 100 text messages from his mobile phone which he hasnt 
sent. But these appear to have started in February 2021 which is around two months prior to 
the disputed transfers. So, I think its unlikely to be linked to Mr Ls disputed activity on his 
bank accounts.
While a SIM swap fraud is possible, I dont think its probable in Mr Ls case. I say this as a 
fraud of this nature would generally mean Mr L wouldve lost the ability to use his phone as 
the fraudster wouldve deactivated his SIM. Another sign would be if Mr L had suddenly lost 
access to his bank account. Neither of these appear to have happened to Mr L  hes been able to use his account to 
make several genuine transactions and his SIM wasnt deactivated, so I think a SIM swap 
fraud can most likely be ruled out.  
In any case, I dont think Mr L has provided sufficient supporting evidence to show that his 
mobile phone device or SIM was compromised. 
Taking everything into account and on balance, I think the most plausible explanation here is 
that the transfers were made by Mr L.
I appreciate Barclays have refunded the two disputed debit card transactions. But this 
doesnt mean that they should also refund all the disputed transfers out of the account. 
Barclays have explained they refunded the debit card transactions automatically without 
carrying out an investigation  this is a decision theyre entitled to make.   
I take Mr Ls point that the IP addresses are varied. But I dont think this is sufficient 
persuasive evidence to demonstrate that the transactions werent authorised by him. IP 
addresses arent always reliable as they can be masked and are sometimes inaccurate.
Also, I can see an IP address used to make a genuine transaction on 15 March 2021 was 
the same as three disputed transactions on 24 May 2021. And Mr Ls account was accessed 
at several different IP addresses before the disputed transactions started  so I dont think 
the IP addresses not being the same is helpful to support Mr Ls case.
Looking at the pattern of the payments, I agree that it shouldve triggered Barclays to 
complete further checks for transactions between 1 June and 4 June 2021 as Mr L had 
spent more than he usually does. There were also multiple payments to the same crypto 
exchange company which would be considered out of the ordinary.
That said, I dont think this wouldve prevented the transactions from going through. While I 
appreciate Mr L says that he wouldnt have authorised the payments if Barclays had 
contacted him, the evidence suggests otherwise. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr L authorised the transactions, so Im persuaded that on 
balance its likely he wouldve told Barclays he authorised them  if they had carried out 
further checks. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr L may have been a victim of a scam and if he was tricked 
into making these transfers. But hes adamant that he didnt make these payments. 
All things considered, I think the evidence points to Mr L having authorised the transactions. 
So, I cant fairly ask Barclays to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman