DRN-2138259
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the level of compensation Barclays Bank UK Plc has offered him 
for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In October 1996 Mr C took out a credit card with Barclays. At the same time he was sold a 
PPI policy.
Mr C later complained to Barclays about the PPI policy.
Barclays upheld Mr Cs complaint about the sale of the policy. But Barclays didnt hold any 
data about how much Mr C had been charged for the PPI on his card. Barclays said it only 
held statement data for Mr Cs account from November 2002 onwards and the statements 
showed no charge for PPI, meaning the policy must have been cancelled at some time 
before November 2002.
So Barclays offered Mr C compensation based on the average it pays consumers who have 
held a card with PPI in similar circumstances to Mr C.
Barclays offered Mr C £3,556.84. This consisted of:
£948.02 for PPI premiums.
£762.34 for interest paid because of the PPI premiums.
£1,848.48 compensatory interest (net of tax) calculated at 8% simple per year.
Mr C felt the offers didnt properly compensate him. Mr C said Barclays should have details 
of his earlier statements. And Mr C said the level of interest Barclays had offered him was 
not sufficient bearing in mind the length of time that had passed and the statements that 
showed he had a high balance in the years after November 2002.
Our adjudicator thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Barclays has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policies. So I wont 
look into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mr C. In this decision I am looking at whether 
Barclays offer is fair.
Before I look at Barclays offers of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain our 
approach when we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
When a business mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Barclays to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated charges caused by the PPI. Wed also 
expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods where theyd been out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case Barclays doesnt have the information it needs to carry out the above calculation. 
It doesnt know how Mr C used his card before November 2002, or what he was charged for 
PPI. It also doesnt know for how long the PPI was attached to his credit card. And Mr C also 
hasnt been able to supply any statements earlier than November 2002.
So Barclays has offered to pay an average amount of compensation based on what it has 
paid consumers who held a similar policy for a similar amount of time.
All in all, I think this is fair approach for Barclays to take given the lack of information 
available and Ill explain why. 
I can see Barclays still has a copy of the original application form for the credit card signed 
by Mr C in October 1996. So we know the PPI was taken out with the card.
Barclays dont have any detailed statement information about Mr Cs credit card before 
November 2002. This isnt unusual and I dont find it surprising as I wouldnt expect 
businesses to keep detailed statement records indefinitely.
The November 2002 statement shows there was no PPI on Mr Cs account. When Barclays 
made the average offer to Mr C it assumed the PPI was on Mr Cs account from October 
1996 until October 2002, the month before the first available statement showing definitely 
that no PPI was on the accounts. So Barclays assumed Mr C had been charged PPI 
premiums for six years. And it based its average offer on this figure.
I think this is a generous assumption and fair to Mr C.
I say this as the PPI couldve been cancelled at any time between October 1996 and 
October 2002. In theory Mr C could have cancelled the PPI in November 1996 and only ever 
paid a minimal amount of PPI. But Barclays has assumed he paid for PPI for the maximum 
time possible. 
Ive next thought about the interest Barclays refunded as part of the offer. As part of the 
average offer Barclays assumed £762.34. Mr C feels this is low bearing in mind the level of 
premiums assumed by Barclays and the balance he held on his card after November 2002. 
But this is an average offer and Mr C may have been charged more, or indeed less interest 
on any premiums he was charged. For example, if two consumers were charged the same 
PPI premiums but one cleared their credit card balance each month and the other didnt, 
then one would be charged a lot more interest on the premiums than the other. In Mr Cs 
case we have no way of knowing how much interest Mr C incurred because of the PPI 
premiums. Because of that I think its fair for Barclays to refund interest based on the 
average interest it refunds consumers in similar circumstances.Similarly the 8% compensatory interest is based on an average amount Barclays refunds its 
consumers in similar circumstances and I think the amount Barclays refunded Mr C is fair.
 
I accept its possible the offer may be lower than what Mr C would receive if Barclays held 
full data, but equally the offer may be far greater than if Barclays held full, accurate data. In 
my view its more likely the latter applies as Barclays has assumed PPI premiums were paid 
for the maximum time possible. And without any actual evidence of what Mr C paid I dont 
think it would be fair to tell Barclays to make any different payment.
I note Mr C was told by Barclays when he originally complained that it could not find 
evidence of PPI on his account. Later, during a review it discovered that Mr C had PPI, most 
likely when it discovered a copy of the credit card application. Its unfortunate this happened 
but I can see Barclays wrote to Mr C with its offer after it found evidence of PPI having been 
sold. And I dont think Mr C has been disadvantaged by this because the interest included in 
the average offer made by Barclays will have been greater than if it had found the PPI and 
made an offer when Mr C first complained.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc has now paid Mr C fair compensation for the 
mis-sale of the PPI policy, given the lack of information available.
It follows that I make no further award against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman