DRN-3934055
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) wont refund 
over £82,000 they lost to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs R authorised the disputed payments they made to their 
crypto wallet from their Virgin Money account (where their funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammers from their crypto wallet). The payments were requested 
using their legitimate security credentials provided by Virgin Money, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Virgin Money should have done more to prevent 
Mr and Mrs R from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a 
bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R feel strongly that there was unusual activity on their account 
that should have been picked up. And I accept that there may have been cause for Virgin 
Money to have questioned Mr and Mrs R about certain payments they were making to 
their crypto wallet, as there were some occasions where multiple payments were sent 
the same day, such as three payments totaling £20,290 being sent on 7 April 2022. 
Multiple payments being made in quick succession to the same payee can often be 
indicative of potential fraud, so I accept that Virgin Money had cause to look into this 
further. 
However, even accepting the payments were out of character and that Virgin Money 
ought to have intervened, Im not persuaded that any such intervention would have likely 
prevented the scam. I say this because Mr and Mrs R said they had been coached by 
the scammer on what to say to the bank if they were questioned about the payments. 
They said they were told not to tell the bank that they were making payments towards an 
investment, for example, and I note that they didnt choose this payment option when 
selecting the reason for the payment. 
So, it seems more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have been upfront about 
the true nature of the payments even if Virgin Money had questioned them. As a result, I 
dont think it wouldve been able to reasonably prevent the scam, and I dont think Virgin 
Moneys failure to look more closely into the payments can be considered as the 
proximate cause of Mr and Mrs Rs loss in these circumstances. As such, I dont 
consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Virgin Money liable for failing to prevent 
the scam.
Ive also considered whether Virgin Money did enough to try and recover the funds after 
the fraud was reported. But given we know the money was transferred out of 
Mr and Mrs Rs crypto wallet and on to the scammer, there wouldnt have been any 
prospect of recovering it from the receiving bank. Virgin Money are also under no 
obligation to refund the money to Mr and Mrs R under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code) either, as the Code only applies to transfers made to another person 
(which this was not, given the funds were paid to their own crypto wallet). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, and Im sorry to hear 
they have fallen victim to a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Virgin Money can 
fairly or reasonably be held liable for their loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman