DRN-3210552
The complaint
Mr M complains that AIB Group (UK) Plc didnt do enough to help him recover funds lost 
when he was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 28 August 2020 Mr M made payments totalling £2,100 in order to purchase parts for a 
van. £1,000 came from Mr Ms account, which is the subject of this complaint. £1,100 was 
also transferred from accounts held by members of Mr Ms family. When the parts for the 
van werent received Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam and contacted AIB for 
help to recover his lost money. Mr M was disappointed when AIB said it wouldnt refund the 
money hed lost. He complained that AIB hadnt done enough. 
AIB considered Mr Ms concerns but said it wasnt responsible for the loss. It explained it had 
carried out the transaction as instructed and authorised by Mr M. It had also contacted the 
receiving bank in line with its procedures but there were no funds remaining, and so nothing 
could be returned to him.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He said AIB had failed to 
pursue the receiving bank to find out where his funds had ultimately gone. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He agreed AIB had acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances. He said there had been no reason for AIB to intervene at the time 
Mr M made the transfer, as the transaction did not appear unusual or suspicious. It had also 
tried to recover his funds from the receiving bank but none remained. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
He considered that we should be considering his whole loss of £2,100, not just the £1,000 
transferred from his account. He explained hed repaid his family members, so the loss was 
ultimately his. He also argued that not enough had been done to see where the money went 
after it left his and his family members accounts.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons as
our investigator. I know this isnt the answer Mr M was hoping for and so this will come as a 
disappointment to him. 
Im sorry to hear he was the victim of a scam and lost a considerable sum of money as a 
result. I understand this loss had a significant impact on his family, particularly over the 
Christmas period. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why Mr M wants to do all he can to 
recover the money both he and his family members have lost. But I need to decide whether 
AIB can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the loss. Overall, Ive decided that it 
cant be. Ill explain why.
I should also explain that, like our investigator, Ive only been able to consider this complaint 
in relation to the £1,000 Mr M transferred directly to the scammer from his own account. 
While I appreciate that Mr M has since repaid family members for the additional £1,100 that 
was transferred, and as such feels this is his total loss, I can only consider the transactions 
that relate specifically to his account. If his family members wish to complain about the 
transactions made from their accounts they can do that directly with their bank, which I 
understand is also AIB. They may also be able to refer a complaint to this service if theyre 
ultimately unhappy with the answer they receive.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time.
In general terms, a bank is expected to process payments that a customer authorises it to
make. This is set out both within the account terms and conditions as well as the Payment
Services Regulations.
But the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer(s) if it makes a payment in
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds for believing the payment instruction was an
attempt to misappropriate the customers funds.
As a matter of good industry practice, I consider banks should also take proactive steps to
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is particularly so considering the
rise in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more
familiar with than the average customer.
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if AIB acted fairly and reasonably
in its dealings with Mr M when he instructed a payment of £1,000 from his account, and 
whether it shouldve done more than it did before processing the payment. I also need to 
decide if AIB ought to have done more than it has already done to recover the funds after it 
was notified of the scam.
Having carefully reviewed Mr Ms bank statements in the six months before August 2020, I 
dont think his instruction to pay £1,000 would have appeared in any way unusual or 
uncharacteristic to AIB at the time. I can see Mr M had made a number of payments of 
£1,000 or more from the account in the past six months. And as it was a one-off
payment from his account there was no pattern of suspicious behaviour for AIB to identify. 
So I dont think AIB was under any duty to make any further enquiries with Mr M before it 
carried out his payment instruction.
Mr M initially informed his local AIB branch hed been the victim of a scam on 
9 September 2020. This report was passed on to AIBs fraud team the following day, who in 
turn contacted the receiving bank to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, the receiving 
bank confirmed that no funds remained in the account so nothing could be returned to Mr M. 
I think AIB should have reported the fraud to the receiving bank on the same day Mr M 
notified it. But, even if he had, I dont think this would have made any difference to its 
recovery efforts. AIB has provided us with evidence from the receiving bank to show that the 
account Mr Ms payment went to was emptied of all funds on 2 September 2020, before 
Mr M became aware of the fraud. As such, even if AIB had contacted the receiving bank on the same day it became aware of the fraud, there would still have been no funds available to 
return to Mr M. So, I dont think hes any worse off because of AIBs delay.  
I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly that AIB and the receiving bank should have some 
responsibility to investigate the scam and find where his money went. And I can understand 
why he thinks this. But Im satisfied that AIB followed the relevant industry guidance and best 
practice by attempting to recover Mr Ms money from the account that receive it. There was 
no requirement for it to do more than that. Ultimately, its for the police to investigate any 
allegation of crime. I have no doubt that AIB would be willing to fully co-operate with any 
police investigation. As set out above, banks do have a duty of care to protect its customers 
if it has reason to believe they are at risk of financial harm, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think AIB had any reason to believe Mr M was at risk of harm. 
Overall, while Im sympathetic to Mr Ms circumstances, I dont think it would be fair
or reasonable to hold AIB responsible for his loss in this particular case.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
AIB Group (UK) Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman