DRN-1102358
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, incorrectly set up a direct debit 
from another person's account to pay his credit card. The payments were claimed back 
under the direct debit indemnity and the total amount was deducted from Mr Rs account, 
leaving him over his credit limit.
What happened
Mr R has a credit card account with Halifax; and he set up a direct debit from his current 
account to make payments towards his balance. But at the end of 2018 an error occurred at 
Halifax which meant Mr Rs direct debit details were changed to those of another person. So 
the direct debit to pay Mr Rs credit card was collected from that persons account each 
month for seven months.
A claim was made under the direct debit indemnity for all these payments to be returned. 
And so, in May 2019, £770 was deducted from Mr Rs account which took him over his credit 
card limit. 
Halifax accepted that the incorrect direct debit details had been an error on its part. Mr R had 
a 0% interest promotion on his card which was due to end in July 2020, and Halifax 
extended this until December 2020 to acknowledge this mistake. It also paid Mr R £160 to 
cover his parking and call costs, and for the inconvenience hed experienced. But it said it 
wouldnt refund any of the £770 as this was part of Mr Rs genuine spending on the account. 
Mr R agreed that he would pay the minimum payment towards the card each month. But 
Halifax wrote to him about the over limit status on the account and said this incurred a £12 
charge. Mr R complained that this had impacted on his credit file; and said hed had a loan 
application declined. He was concerned about how this error came about and if his personal 
information had been compromised.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think Halifax had acted fairly. 
She agreed that Mr R was liable to pay the £770 as it was money that he'd spent. But she 
didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr R to have believed he had been paying the direct 
debit as this was what his credit card statement showed. In summary, the investigator didnt 
think it was fair for Mr Rs credit file to show that he was over his credit limit as, if the £770 
hadnt been deducted, then he wouldve been within it. This had led to him being contacted 
by Halifaxs collections team; and she thought this should be put on hold until Mr R was back 
within his credit limit. 
The investigator thought Halifax should increase Mr Rs credit limit to the amount he 
was over by, then reduce it each month until he was back within his original limit. But Halifax 
said it wouldnt be able to do this as it would require underwriting. So the investigator said 
she thought Halifax should either move the over limit balance to a separate account ensuring 
there was no credit file impact; or it should pay Mr R more compensation. Halifax said that if it was to report a true reflection of Mr Rs account on his credit file then 
this would include that he made no payment for a seven-month period, which could be more 
detrimental for him. It said it had to comply with the direct debit indemnity request, and only 
its collections team could work with Mr R towards reducing his balance. However, Halifax 
proposed to increase Mr Rs credit limit to cover his balance and then reduce it as and when 
he makes repayments. It said this would prevent the letters he was receiving from its 
collections team and stop his credit file from showing his account as being over limit. 
Our investigator thought this was fair and explained this proposal to Mr R. But he asked for 
his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has acknowledged that it was at fault for this mistake, which seems to have 
happened when one of its representatives either still had Mr Rs account open on their 
system; or had gone into the wrong account when entering the information for the direct 
debit. So I dont think its the case that Mr Rs personal information has been compromised, 
as this seems to have been the result of a human error by a Halifax representative.
However, this meant that the direct debit to pay Mr Rs account was being deducted from 
someone elses account rather than his own. Although I can appreciate how the payment 
showing on Mr Rs credit card statements will have reassured him and I understand that he 
may not regularly check the outgoings from his current account; he would have had the 
benefit of that money remaining in his current account through that time. The spending on 
his credit card was genuine, so I think it is rightly owed by him.
Halifax was obliged to meet the direct debit indemnity to claim back this money which was 
right as it belonged to the other person. But this has put Mr R in a position where his account 
balance is over his credit limit, and he isnt able meet to make a full payment to reduce it 
back down. So Halifaxs collections team has written to him asking for payment, and his 
credit report shows the over limit status of his account.
To recognise the inconvenience Mr R was caused, Halifax offered Mr R a payment of £160, 
which included £5 for his call costs and £5 for parking charges. I understand that this has 
since been paid to Mr R. It also extended Mr Rs interest free period to the end of 2020, 
which will mean any payments he makes to the account will be paying back the capital 
owed.
Halifax has said that Mr R has exceeded his credit limit at times in the past. Therefore it is 
difficult for me to say with any certainty that the loan application Mr R has told us about was 
declined solely as a result of Halifax's error with this direct debit.   
But I agree that it would be unfair for this particular situation to now impact on Mr Rs credit 
file when he wouldve been within his credit limit had it not been for Halifaxs mistake. I say 
this because I think its reasonable to consider that Mr R intended on making repayments to 
his credit card by setting up his direct debit. And he wouldnt have reasonably expected that 
this would be mistakenly altered or set up with another persons details.
Putting things right
To put this right, Halifax has offered to increase Mr Rs credit limit to match his balance. This 
would mean there wouldnt be a need for his account to be with its collections team; and it would no longer show as being over limit on his credit file. The credit limit would then be 
gradually reduced when Mr R makes payments towards the balance.
And, having taken everything into account, I think this, along with Halifaxs apology and 
payment of £160, represents a fair and reasonable resolution to the situation caused through 
Halifaxs mistake. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
to increase Mr Rs credit limit to match the current balance on his credit card so that his 
account would no longer be with Halifaxs collections team, and his credit file doesnt show 
that he is over limit. This is to be done on the basis that the credit limit will be reduced as 
and when Mr R makes his monthly payment towards his account balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman