DRN-3722518
The complaint
Miss B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly issued a credit card to her 
and increased the credit limit when she couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
In October 2006 Miss B applied for and received a credit card from Tesco, with an initial 
credit limit of £1,500. In April 2008 the credit limit was increased, apparently on Miss Bs 
application, to £2,250. Miss B raised a complaint of irresponsible lending to Tesco in 
September 2020. She said that Tesco had raised the credit limit several times since 2010, 
but she had no income from 2010 to 2013 and then was on benefits. She believed that 
Tesco didnt carry out proper affordability checks. 
Tesco explained that the card limit hadnt been increased since 2008, at which time Miss B 
had said she had an income of over £44,700. It said the complaint was out of time in any 
event, but following a referral to the Financial Ombudsman we said that the complaint was in 
jurisdiction. Tesco explained that it would have carried out proportionate affordability checks 
at the time, but that it no longer held any data concerning its affordability checks from 2006 
and 2008. 
Miss B explained in her complaint that she had been in an abusive relationship and didnt 
believe she was in the right frame of mind to understand the long term implications of it. She 
pointed out that her income had never been more than £30,000 and would never have told 
Tesco that it was higher.
Tesco has since, in light of Miss Bs circumstances, agreed to write off the balance on the 
card. However Miss B still wishes to proceed with her complaint, as this doesnt address the 
problem of what is on her credit record and the previous interest and charges paid.
On review by our investigator, he said that because Tesco has very few records relating to 
the time of the issue of the card and the credit limit increases, he didnt think the complaint 
could be upheld.
Miss B disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss B would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Tesco ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Bs indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
First of all I am really sorry that Miss B found herself in such a difficult financial position 
largely because of her relationship with her former partner. I appreciate that it would have 
been difficult for her to talk about it. I dont however think that Tesco could have been 
expected to know about this and Im pleased to note that, once it became aware of this it 
agreed to write off the balance of her card account. I think that was an appropriate response. 
Miss Bs financial position, as raised in her original complaint to Tesco got worse after 2010 
when she became unemployed. However Tesco didnt raise the credit limit after 2008 and 
made no further lending decisions, so I can only consider what happened when the card was 
issued to her and when the credit limit was increased in 2008.
Unfortunately Tesco has no records of the affordability checks it carried out in 2006 and 
2008. However its not unreasonable to expect a bank to keep records going back beyond 
six years, so I cant presume it didnt carry out the checks because of a lack of records.
What records Tesco does have show that the account was opened in 2006, and that the 
credit limit was increased in 2008. The record indicates that this was an online application by 
Miss B and that her salary at that time was declared to be over £44,700. Miss B tells us she 
never earned more than £30,000. But she also says her ex-partner may have applied for the 
increase, so I think its not inconceivable that the salary figure was given by him. I think its 
possible (but not likely) that this was an error by Tesco, but as there is no record of the 
actual application, I think its not possible now to say where that figure came from.
Miss B believes that Tesco couldnt have done the proper checks at the time as if it did it 
would have shown the income figure was wrong. Ive considered this, but bearing in mind 
the level of credit (£2,250) I dont think that Tesco needed to carry out further checks on 
Miss Bs income. The card account would have had to be satisfactorily managed for the limit 
to be increased. However even if Tesco had checked her income and it was shown to be 
£30,000, I still think this was a reasonable income to have the sort of credit limit given to her 
at the time.
As Ive said without further records I cant say what affordability checks were done. And the 
records of Miss Bs statements dont go back as far as 2008, so I cant verify how the 
account was managed.
As there is insufficient evidence, I cant uphold Miss Bs complaint. I can understand that her 
relationship caused her great problems from 2010 and Ive noted that in her complaint to 
Tesco she only raised issues from after that year. So I dont think it affected the lending 
decisions in 2006 and 2008. Im sorry if her credit record has been affected but its a matter 
for Tesco how it records it. As I havent found it did anything wrong I cant instruct it to 
change the record.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman