DRN-3341652
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way that Oakwood Homeloans Limited processed his request for 
data under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). In particular, that it required a 
signature in order to process the request and missed the relevant timescales for response 
because of this.
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with Oakwood Homeloans Limited (Oakwood).
On 7 June 2021 he decided to use his right of access to his personal information, under 
GDPR and requested a copy of the data it held on him. He did so via an email address hed 
regularly been using to communicate with Oakwood through.
On 12 July 2021 Mr F complained as Oakwood hadnt responded within the one month 
timeframe outlined in the legislation. 
Oakwood then wrote to Mr F on 19 July 2021 and told him it needed a signature to confirm 
his identity before processing the request.
Mr F didnt think this was fair, so he complained about this too. Oakwood agreed that it had 
taken too long to update Mr F about the need for a signature and it apologised for this. 
However, it said it needed to satisfy itself that the data request had come from its customer. 
So, it said its request for a signature was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to Our Service. Mr F pointed out that 
Oakwood had engaged with him extensively via email about his account. He said it was 
previously able to change the correspondence address for the mortgage without identity 
verification following an email request. So, he didnt think it was fair it was requesting a 
signature for his data request. Mr F stressed that as a consequence of this, hed been 
waiting months for his data despite the fact the relevant legislation provided a one month 
timescale for responses. Mr F also told us this had taken a lot of time and effort to try to 
resolve and had caused him a lot of anxiety and distress. 
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They were of the view it 
was reasonable of Oakwood to request identification. They agreed this should have been 
done sooner but thought the impact of this was minimal and so they didnt think Oakwood 
needed to take any further action.
Mr F disagreed with their assessment and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. Mr F also told us that Oakwood had previously processed his GDPR requests made 
by email. And that it had eventually accepted and processed this DSAR without a signature.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr F has raised a number of complaints with Oakwood. These include the fact 
hes unhappy with what Oakwood eventually sent him when it processed his data request. 
But in this decision, Ill only be considering his concerns about the request for a signature 
and the delay in processing the request due to this.  
My decision also wont address every point or comment made. I mean no discourtesy by 
this, and Id like to reassure all parties that I have considered all the evidence theyve 
provided to Our Service. But I will only comment on what I see to be relevant in reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
I think it would be helpful to start by being clear about the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. We offer an informal dispute resolution service. Which means we impartially review 
complaints and, where we think a business has done something wrong, we try to put 
consumers back into the same position they would have been in had mistakes not been 
made. It is not our role to punish businesses or to regulate them. The latter means we dont 
have a role, for example, in saying what processes a business should follow. 
Its also not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter 
for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including 
the relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
So, although its not for Our Service to say whether or not Oakwood has complied with 
GDPR, Im required to take the GDPR rules into account, amongst other things when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Of relevance to this complaint are the following extracts about data access rights from the 
ICO website:
An individual can make a SAR verbally or in writing, including on social media. 
A request is valid if it is clear that the individual is asking for their own personal data.
You must comply with a SAR without undue delay and at the latest within one month 
of receiving the request.
Can we ask for ID? Yes. You need to be satisfied that you know the identity of the 
requester (or the person the request is made on behalf of). If you are unsure, you can 
ask for information to verify an individuals identity. The timescale for responding to a 
SAR does not begin until you have received the requested information. However, you 
should request ID documents promptly.
Oakwood has said that it was necessary for it to request identification document/s (ID) in 
order to verify Mr Fs identity. Its told Our Service its data subject access request (DSAR) 
policy states: upon receipt of a DSAR, the DSAR team will: Ensure that a written request 
includes valid authority for the DSAR, and will verify all signatures. And its clear that under 
the ICOs guidance it is entitled to request ID in order to satisfy itself the request is coming 
from its customer. 
However, Mr Fs point here is that he had been successfully liaising with Oakwood from this 
email for quite some time including sensitive account information. So, he thinks it ought to 
have been satisfied of his identity in any event. Hes also told us Oakwood had previously 
accepted DSAR requests from him via email. 
So, Ive thought about whether Oakwood has been consistent in its approach to the handling 
of Mr Fs data. Firstly, Ive seen no evidence Oakwood regularly contacted Mr F via email. Its clear Mr F 
regularly emailed Oakwood. But Oakwood told Our Service it doesnt communicate with 
customers via email as it doesnt consider this a safe method. It said it replied to Mr Fs 
email correspondence via post. I asked Mr F for evidence that Oakwood had emailed him, 
but he wasnt able to provide this. And the correspondence I have seen addressed to Mr F 
from Oakwood was sent via post. 
Mr F has also raised the fact Oakwood agreed to change his correspondence address on 
the account via an email request. However, it would appear that when Mr F first emailed 
about this, Oakwood wrote to him in the post and asked for a signature to verify his identity. 
However, Mr F then escalated the matter to Oakwoods senior management team, and they 
agreed an exception on that occasion given his regular communication via email.
Exactly the same thing happened with the GDPR request that is the subject of this complaint 
- this was eventually processed without a signature following the email request. This was 
done after Oakwood wrote to Mr F to request a signature to verify his identity and Mr F 
refused. With the agreement of the Oakwood senior management team, a further exception 
was made. So, Oakwood did accept this instruction via email, but the evidence also 
indicates this was an exception that required senior level approval made outside of its 
agreed processes.
Mr F also told us his previous DSARs had been accepted via email. Oakwood confirmed it 
has processed a number of such requests for Mr F but said its policy about requiring a 
signature hasnt changed. It explained it had asked Mr F for a signature on a DSAR sent via 
email in September 2020 but similarly processed this as an exception without the signature 
following a refusal and complaint from Mr F. It also shared a letter that it wrote to Mr F in 
2018 about not processing a DSAR request without a signature. This letter outlined the 
policy and explained the reasons for this. 
So, I dont think theres been a substantial shift in Oakwoods approach here. It would 
appear it has made exceptions to accept certain instructions via email but only after running 
this past its senior management team. I dont think it can be fairly argued that because it had 
already made some exceptions, that it was then obliged to continue do so moving forward. 
And whilst I recognise it did eventually choose to make another exception in relation to this 
very same issue, I still dont think this makes its initial request for a signature unfair. I say 
this noting Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Fs particular circumstances mean the application 
of these rules to his request was unreasonable. I also say this keeping in mind that a DSAR 
involves Oakwood sharing all of the data it holds on a consumer  so by their very nature 
these requests require Oakwood to disclose an exceptionally large volume of personal 
sensitive information.
For all of these reasons, I think Oakwoods request for further identification in relation to this 
data request was reasonable.
That being said, I do agree that Oakwood ought to have requested the signature sooner, 
particularly taking into account the one month deadline outlined in the ICO guidance. 
Ive seen no evidence Mr F has experienced any loss as a result of this delay, and whilst I 
appreciate this would have been frustrating for him, I think the apology already offered by 
Oakwood is sufficient in the circumstances to account for the delay of just over one month. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that Oakwood Homeloans Limited 
doesnt need to take any further action. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman