DRN-2874999
The complaint
Mr K and Miss N complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited treat a claim they 
made for the theft of personal items whilst away from their home as fraudulent. Theyre also 
unhappy that their policy was avoided and a CIFAS marker applied. 
What happened
Mr K and Miss N jointly held a policy that was underwritten by Lloyds. Their policy 
commenced on 26 July 2019 and included cover for personal possession while away from 
home. 
On 11 September 2019, Mr K said he was mugged at knife point on his way to work. He said 
his rucksack was stolen, which contained a number of items including a laptop and laptop 
case, wedding ring, silver chain, headphones, clothing, dress ring, two gold bangles, watch, 
pair of reading glasses and a glasses case. Mr K reported the incident to the police and 
obtained a crime reference number. 
On 12 September 2019, Mr K notified Lloyds that he wanted to make a claim under his 
policy for the stolen items. He was asked to submit a loss list together with photographs or 
receipts to confirm proof of ownership, which he did.
During discussions with Lloyds about what had happened Mr K was asked on several 
occasions whether the digital photographs hed provided were of the actual items stolen. He 
replied that they were. 
When Lloyds examined the photographs Mr K had provided it noted that the metadata 
extracted from the images showed that theyd been taken after the incident. It was therefore 
concerned that Mr K was still in possession of the items hed reported as stolen.
Lloyds shared its concerns with Mr K. But he wasnt able to provide a satisfactory 
explanation as to why most of the photographs had been taken after the date hed been 
mugged. It still thought that Mr K still had the items in his possession and declined to settle 
his claim. It also avoided his policy from the date of inception on the grounds of fraud and 
applied a CIFAS marker.
Mr K was unhappy with Lloyds approach to his outstanding claim. So, he complained about 
how it had dealt with his claim. But Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint as it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint, Mr K referred it our service. He 
wanted Lloyds to settle his outstanding claim and remove the CIFAS marker, which he said 
was adversely affecting his ability to continue to work.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr K and Miss Ns complaint. But she didnt recommend 
upholding it. She wasnt persuaded that Lloyds had acted unfairly in declining Mr K and Miss 
Ns claim or avoiding their policy. And she thought it had been reasonable for Lloyds to apply 
the marker it did. But Mr K and Miss N disagreed with our investigators view of their 
complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
I can see Mr K and Miss N have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed points about their complaint. I want to assure them that Ive read everything theyve 
sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this 
decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint. 
I can also see that Mr K and Miss N have provided our investigator with a copy of a 
published decision from another ombudsman in another complaint. Ive read that decision. 
However, Id like to make it clear to Mr K and Miss N that this service looks at the individual 
circumstances surrounding each complaint we receive, to decide what we thinks the fairest 
way to resolve that particular complaint. That almost inevitably means that cases which, on 
the face of it, might share similar features could well result in quite different outcomes. And 
certainly, no case we decide is intended to act as a precedent for all complaints of that 
nature. 
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr K. I recognise that being mugged is bound to 
have been distressing and traumatic. But my role is to assess whether I think Lloyds treated 
Mr K and Miss N unfairly when it declined to settle their claim, avoided their policy and 
recorded a CIFAS marker.
The terms of Mr K and Miss Ns policy requires policyholders to exercise reasonable care 
to ensure that information is provided to Lloyds honestly, fully and to the best of their 
knowledge. 
Lloyds is entitled to cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. 
In this case, Lloyds say that, based on the evidence it has, its likely Mr K and Miss N 
breached the fraud condition of the policy. 
Fraud is obviously a serious matter. Ive checked the terms and conditions of Mr K and Miss 
Ns policy in relation to this, and they say: 
If you or anyone acting on your behalf makes any claim or statement knowing it to be false 
or fraudulent as regards, amount or otherwise, or if any loss or damage is caused by your 
wilful act or with your connivance, we will not pay the claim and all cover under this policy 
will cease and you will lose all premiums you have paid for this policy. In addition, we may 
recover any sums paid by way of benefit under the policy. If you fraudulently provided us 
with false information, statements or documents we may record this on antifraud databases; 
we may also notify other organisations. 
Given the above, Im satisfied that, if a policyholder has breached this condition, Lloyds is 
entitled to cancel the insurance policy, decline a claim, retain any premiums paid and record 
a CIFAS marker.It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need 
to decide if Lloyds acted reasonably in raising the fraud condition and taking the action it did. 
So, Ive looked at what Lloyds took into account, and whether I think this was fair. 
Lloyds notes show that Mr K reported his claim to it the day after his mugging. In efforts to 
prove ownership of the items he said had been stolen, he provided a loss list and digital 
photographs of items that he wasnt able to provide receipts for. 
Mr K provided receipts for a watch, laptop, laptop case, wedding band, reading glasses and 
glasses case. Lloyds accepted these receipts as evidence of ownership of those items. 
In efforts to prove ownership of the other items claimed for, Mr K provided Lloyds with digital 
photographs of two gold bangles, a dress ring, silver chain and clothing that he said had 
been taken during the mugging incident. He also sent Lloyds photographs of boxes from the 
laptop and headphones that he said had been stolen.
Ive listened to the recordings that Lloyds has provided our service of discussions between it 
and Mr K. During discussions, Lloyds asked Mr K on several occasions whether the 
photographs hed sent it were images of the items stolen during the mugging incident or 
whether they were photographs of similar items that he owned. He replied that the 
photographs showed the actual items stolen and he provided a detailed explanation as to 
when each photograph had been taken and in what circumstances.
Mr K also informed Lloyds that the photographs hed sent it in support of his claim had either 
been taken by him or forwarded to him by his wife. He said that the photographs of the 
laptop and headphone boxes had been taken after the date he was mugged. But he stated 
that the photographs of the other items he was claiming for had been taken prior to the date 
that he was mugged. 
Lloyds has provided evidence, which shows that the digital photographs Mr K sent it were 
original images that hadnt been altered or edited in any way. So, the metadata extracted 
from the images is reliable and accurate. This data cant be edited.
Lloyds has also shown our service cogent evidence demonstrating that the metadata from all 
photographs proves that they were taken after the date that Mr K was mugged. It hasnt 
taken any issue with the date the photographs of the boxes were taken, as its clear that Mr 
K had kept those boxes. And it said it would have expected these photographs to have been 
taken after the date of loss to show that Mr K had owned these items.
In relation to the photographs of the ring, silver chain, clothing and gold bangles, Lloyds 
believes that Mr K must still be in possession of these items if he was able to take 
photographs of them after the date he was mugged. I can understand why Lloyds thinks that. 
And I think those concerns are valid and reasonable here. Ill explain why.
When Lloyds explained to Mr K that the photographs hed provided had been taken after the 
date of the mugging, he was offered the opportunity to clarify anything hed misrepresented 
to it. He responded to say that the gold bangles were the remaining two from a set of four. 
But he wasnt able to provide an explanation as to why the other photographs showed items 
that he claimed had been stolen on 11 September 2019. 
Lloyds told Mr K that it believed that the majority of his claim had been false and grossly 
exaggerated because hed attempted to include, within his claim, items that were still in his 
possession. Mr K denied this but stated that he understood why Lloyds would have the 
concerns it did.Mr K subsequently informed Lloyds that the ring and silver chain in the photographs hed 
provided belonged to his brother. He said the ring was the same and the chain was similar to 
those stolen from him. He, again, stated that the gold bangles that had been photographed 
were the remaining two from an original set of four. And he told Lloyds that the clothing in 
the photograph provided was very similar in style and value to the garments stolen, which he 
didnt have photographs of. 
The accounts that Mr K gave Lloyds about the items photographed after it raised its 
concerns are very different to, and at odds with, those he provided at the outset of his claim. 
By this point, hed already been given the opportunity on several occasions to inform Lloyds 
that the photographs hed provided showed similar items to those stolen. But he consistently 
told it they were images of the actual items stolen, which he ought reasonably to have been 
aware was false and untrue. In the overall circumstances of this claim, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition. 
Ive carefully considered the content of the correspondence Lloyds sent Mr K and Miss N 
about its decision to decline their claim and avoid their policy. Im satisfied that the 
correspondence Mr K and Miss N received explained in clear terms why Lloyds believed a 
fraudulent claim had been made and why it had taken the action it did.
While Lloyds accepted that parts of this claim were genuine, its chosen to repudiate the 
entirety of Mr K and Miss Ns claim. In line with the Insurance Act 2015, if an insured makes 
a fraudulent claim under a contract of insurance the insurer is not liable to pay the claim. 
Furthermore, the Supreme Court ruling in Versloot Dredging v HDI Gerling Industrie 
Versicherung AG stated that where a claim has been fraudulently exaggerated, and the 
insured is trying to get something to which they arent entitled, an insurer is entitled to refuse 
to pay the entire claim, even if other parts of the claim were genuine and not exaggerated. I 
therefore cant fairly say that Lloyds erred in repudiating the whole claim.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, a CIFAS marker has been applied by 
Lloyds. Mr K has told our investigator that this marker has compromised his ability to 
continue to work. He wants our service to tell Lloyds to remove the marker. 
The terms of Mr K and Miss Ns policy outline how Lloyds may record data about fraudulent 
claims. An insurer has a duty to make accurate records for fraud prevention purposes. So, I 
dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in recording a CIFAS marker. The information that it 
reported is a true reflection of what happened  I therefore cant ask it to remove the marker 
as Mr K would like. 
I can see that Lloyds informed Mr K that the premiums paid under his policy would be 
retained by his insurer. This is in line with the terms of Mr K and Miss Ns policy, which state:
If dishonesty or exaggeration is used by you, your family or anyone acting on behalf of you 
or your family to obtain: 
a claims payment under your policy; or 
cover for which you do not qualify; or 
cover at a reduced premium; 
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to 
a refund of premium and legal action may be taken against you.
I recognise that Mr K and Miss N are upset and disappointed about the decision Lloyds 
made here. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to decide the fraud condition of 
their policy had been breached  putting all of its concerns together. And, having reached 
that conclusion, Im satisfied that it was entitled to avoid this policy, retain the premiums paid and record a fraud marker. I therefore cant fairly and reasonably uphold this complaint.  It 
follows that Im not going to tell Lloyds to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr K or Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman