DRN-2909243
The complaint
P complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs actions when it tried to apply for a loan under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme; and Barclays subsequent decision to close Ps account.
Mr S, director of P, complains on its behalf.
What happened
Around April 2020, Mr S contacted Barclays to enquire about lending for a business loan on 
behalf of P. In May 2020, Mr S attempted to apply for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) Scheme with Barclays. Mr S received an error and therefore couldnt complete the 
application online. He spoke to Barclays and updated some of the company information and 
mandates.
In late May 2020, Barclays informed Mr S that their team were working through BBL 
requests in date order, but they were experiencing delays.
In June 2020, Mr S was still unable to apply for a BBL on behalf of P  unhappy with the time 
taken, he raised a complaint.
Around 29 July 2020, Barclays got in touch with Mr S and asked for additional information in 
relation to P. Barclays say they gave Mr S a deadline of 3 August 2020 to respond to the 
information request; but Mr S says he wasnt given a deadline. 
On 11 August 2020, Barclays made the decision to close Ps accounts  and therefore didnt 
progress the BBL application. They also asked that Ps overdraft of around £25,000 was 
repaid. Barclays gave P 60 days notice of its account closing.
On the same day; 11 August 2020, Mr S responded to Barclays information request relating 
to Ps accounts. Despite the decision to close already being made, Barclays reviewed the 
information Mr S provided to see if it would change their decision. Barclays decision 
remained and therefore Ps account closed in October 2020.
Mr S feels Barclays have made an unfair decision in closing Ps account  he believes it has 
been based on incorrect information that he was irate while raising his complaint about the 
delays with the BBL application. He also thinks Barclays gave unfair deadlines and caused 
significant delays between May  July 2020.
Our investigator explained to Mr S that Barclays are entitled to carry out checks on their 
customers and must adhere to their legal and regulatory obligations. He also explained that 
Barclays gave P appropriate notice to close the account and were entitled to do so under the 
terms and conditions of the account. So, he didnt think Barclays needed to do anything 
differently.
Mr S, on behalf of P, responded and said the information requests from Barclays were 
unexpected and unwarranted. P had been a customer of Barclays for a long time and 
Barclays knew everything about its accounts. Mr S thought the deadline imposed on P from 
29 July to 3 August was grossly unfair. Mr S said P wasnt contacted or asked for any 
information by Barclays between May  July 2020.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything differently. I know this will 
come as a great disappointment to Mr S, but Ive explained my reasons below.
I trust P, and Mr S on its behalf, wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed its 
complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach the right outcome. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail 
with P, but Id like to reassure it  and Mr S on its behalf  that I have considered everything, 
and I think Barclays actions have been fair in the circumstances.
I understand from what Mr S has told us that he expected the BBL application to be 
completed, approved and paid out within a few days. This wasnt the case, and it appeared 
he received an error online when trying to apply for the BBL. Based on the circumstances of 
this complaint, I consider the error was caused because Barclays required certain 
information before they could agree to lend. Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive 
received from both parties, that Ps mandate held details of individuals no longer associated 
with P. Mr S updated this mandate, and the company information on Companies House, 
before proceeding further.
While the aim of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to provide financial support to 
businesses quickly, lenders were still required to carry out a number of checks before 
approving a loan  including Know Your Customer (KYC), fraud and anti-money laundering 
checks. Mr S feels these checks were unexpected and unjustified  he said Barclays held up 
to date information for P  but I think it was reasonable for Barclays to ensure theyre 
records were up to date before considering an application for P. And Im satisfied Mr S, on 
behalf of P, had to make changes to the information Barclays held which resulted in the 
mandate being updated in May 2020.
I can see from this point, it took Barclays until around the end of July 2020 to ask P for any 
additional information. I can understand why Mr S might find that timeframe unacceptable  
especially as he said P was struggling financially and it required the loan to allow it to clear 
debts and start purchasing products ready for when it could trade again. Ive seen evidence 
to show that Barclays were actively reviewing things in the background; which resulted in 
them needing to ask for additional information. While I cant share full details of the review, 
or Barclays concerns with P, I dont think Barclays caused any unnecessary delays 
intentionally. At the same time, I think its fair to bear in mind the unprecedented 
circumstances at the time. In addition to the large volume of loan applications and 
associated calls and contact, the bank was also having to deal with the consequences of the pandemic  which would have affected the level of service Barclays could reasonably 
provide. So, taking all of that into account, I dont think the delay in progressing things here 
was unreasonable.
I can appreciate why Mr S feels Barclays asking him for information and giving him a short 
deadline is unjust  especially considering the time they had taken to get to this stage. I can 
appreciate Mr S feeling around this, and I dont doubt it would have been an unsettling and 
worrying time for his business. Mr S also doesnt agree he was given a deadline. I havent 
been able to listen to the relevant phone call between Mr S and Barclays, but I have seen a 
copy of the email sent to Mr S from Barclays and I agree no deadline was set. While I dont 
know for certain what was discussed on the telephone call; I have no reason to disbelieve Mr 
S. That being said, I dont think it makes an overall difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because, before the information was received, Barclays made the 
decision to end their banking relationship with P. And when Mr S did send the required 
information in, Barclays sent it to the relevant team to review in case it made a difference to 
their overall decision. It didnt; and therefore, Barclays continued with the account closure. It 
follows, that even if Mr S had sent the information in sooner, or had been given a longer 
deadline, Barclays would have still concluded to close Ps account.
Mr S, on behalf of P, made a complaint to Barclays about the time it was taking to apply for 
the BBL in June 2020. Mr S learned from a Data Subject Access Request, that a case 
handler from Barclays recorded that Mr S was irate. Mr S strongly disagrees with this 
statement and feels this has played a part in his account being closed. While I can 
appreciate why Mr S feels this way, Ive reviewed the reasons for Barclays decision, and Id 
like to reassure Mr S that Ive seen nothing to suggest theyve acted unfairly or based their 
decision on Mr S behaviour during the complaint process. 
I recognise Mr S doesnt think P breached any of the terms listed within the terms and 
conditions of the account; but banks are entitled to end their relationships with customers at 
any time by giving appropriate notice. Im pleased to see Barclays gave P the full notice 
period when closing its account; and therefore, I cant fairly uphold Ps complaint on this 
point.
P also held an overdraft on the account and owed around £25,000 on it. Mr S thinks the 
charges were unfair and explained that he needed the money from the BBL to help repay 
this. I cant reasonably say Barclays werent entitled to charge P for the use of the overdraft 
and as with most banks, overdrafts are repayable on demand. As Barclays exercised their 
right to close the account; they were also entitled to ask for the overdraft debt to be repaid.
Overall, while I dont doubt the process of attempting to apply for a BBL would have been 
more stressful and time-consuming than Mr S on behalf of P anticipated, I havent seen 
anything to confirm that Barclays acted unreasonably. They were entitled to carry out checks 
on P; and ask for additional information. Barclays were also entitled to make the decision to 
end the banking relationship with P  and they complied with the terms and conditions of the 
account by giving sufficient notice. Im also satisfied, that despite the information being 
received after Barclays had made the decision to close Ps account, they still considered it. 
This didnt make a difference to their decision, so they continued with the account closure 
which resulted in no Bounce Bank Loan being approved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman