DRN-1457537
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc handled her request to remove her 
late husbands name from her online bank account.
What happened
Mrs Cs husband sadly passed away in December 2018. She contacted Barclays about a 
number of financial issues, one of which was that whenever she signed in to her online bank 
account, the account still showed her husbands name. She found that distressing and asked 
Barclays to change it. Barclays said that Mrs C would need to log into the account and there 
would then be an option to edit the name of the account. Alternatively, it said it could create 
a new membership number for Mrs C which would resolve the problem. Mrs C said she 
found it upsetting and distressing to have to remove her husbands name herself and said 
she didnt want to change her membership details. She couldnt understand why Barclays 
wasnt able to do this for her at this difficult time and complained to this service.
Barclays told our investigator that it was unable to change the details itself and said that 
Mrs C would need to do it herself, in the ways it had explained to her. Our investigator said 
that shed double-checked the situation with Barclays and it had confirmed that account 
names arent changed automatically when accounts change from joint to sole names. She 
said that Barclays was unable to fulfil Mrs Cs request and the only options open to her were 
to make the changes herself. However, our investigator thought Barclays could have 
handled matters better by providing a clearer explanation why it couldnt do what shed 
asked it to do. And she thought Barclays should therefore pay her £50 for the trouble and 
upset it had caused. This was in addition to £100 it had given her for the delay in responding 
to her complaint.
Barclays accepted our investigators findings. Mrs C said she understood the investigators 
reasons and outcome but felt that £50 didnt fully reflect the distress Barclays had caused. 
As she remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs C is so upset with Barclays. She asked it to do something she 
thought would be quick and easy to do at a time when she needed support and 
understanding. Instead, it said it couldnt do what shed asked and said she would need to 
take action that would only add to her distress. 
But Barclays has confirmed that it cant make the requested change to Mrs Cs accounts 
itself. It doesnt have a process to do that. Its maintained its position throughout and, from 
the evidence Ive seen, I have no reason to doubt that this is the true situation. What 
Barclays has said is that Mrs C would need to take action herself, either by editing the 
account names or by changing her membership details. Mrs C has said shed find it too 
distressing to delete her husbands name from her account and I can understand why she 
would say that. There is another option, which is to change her membership details, and while I can see that this would be inconvenient, that is an option open to her. Unfortunately, 
there doesnt appear to be anything more Barclays can do and I think it would be unfair for 
me to criticise them for not doing something its not able to do.
In terms of the way Barclays has handled this matter, our investigator thought it could have 
been more sensitive to Mrs Cs situation and explained things more clearly than it did. From 
the evidence Ive seen, I think Barclays was reasonably clear throughout its contact with Mrs 
C that it couldnt make the changes itself and that she would need to take action herself. I 
can understand why Mrs C wasnt happy with that situation but, as Ive said, I cant criticise 
Barclays for that. 
But I agree with the investigator that the final response it sent to Mrs C didnt explain the 
situation very well or very sensitively. That will have added to Mrs Cs distress at an already 
very difficult time and I think its right to ask Barclays to recognise that. 
Putting things right
I know Mrs C doesnt think the £50 suggested by our investigator is an accurate reflection of 
the distress caused. But, as Ive said, I think Barclays did explain the situation adequately 
early on and the poor service is more to do with the way it explained the situation in the final 
response to the complaint. Im satisfied that £50 is fair and reasonable in light of the likely 
impact of that particular poor level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and ask Barclays Bank UK Plc 
to pay Mrs C a total of £50 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman