DRN-3815160
The complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about a joint second charge mortgage taken out in 2019 that is secured 
on a property in her sole name. She considers that Equifinance Limited shouldnt have 
granted the loan for the amount it did, as the property was only in her name and so only her 
income should have been taken into account when affordability was assessed. This, Ms G 
believes, would have meant the mortgage would have been more affordable when her 
ex-partner stopped making payments to it. As such, Ms G doesnt believe she was treated 
fairly and thinks the mortgage, because of the amount advanced, was not in her best 
interests and irresponsible lending.
What happened
In 2019 Ms G and her then partner applied for a joint second charge mortgage on the home 
they shared, but which Ms G owned with a mortgage. The mortgage was arranged on a 
repayment basis over a term of ten years and advanced £15,000 plus fees. They both 
signed the mortgage offer to accept the loan on 4 July 2019.
Ms G informed us of her concerns in June 2022. We passed those concerns on to 
Equifinance, as it hadnt previously been made aware of the complaint.  
Equifinance responded to Miss G in a letter of 6 July 2022. It explained that it provided 
second charge mortgages, including those in joint names, where there is a sole property 
owner. That was the type of mortgage Ms G and her ex-partner entered into at their request. 
As it was a joint application, both applicants income and expenditure were taken into 
account. It was satisfied it had lent responsibly, as it was required to by the regulator. 
Ms G remained unhappy and asked us to consider the complaint. One of our investigators 
did so, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Ms G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said that she didnt think it was fair 
that both parties income was used to assess the affordability of the mortgage, when her 
ex-partner had no interest in the property being used as security. As such, she asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
Our investigator referred the complaint to an ombudsman, but also responded to Ms Gs 
comments. She explained that joint borrower, sole ownership mortgages are not unusual 
and in such a situation it is not unreasonable for the lender to take both applicants incomes 
into account when assessing affordability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G and her then partner applied for a joint mortgage secured on the property they lived in 
together, but for which Ms G only was on the property title. While Ms G has indicated the 
money was to be used for her ex-partners benefit, it was a joint application. In the 
circumstance where two people in a relationship, residing together asked for joint borrowing, 
it was not unreasonable that their joint income and expenditure was taken into account when 
the affordability of that borrowing was assessed. The fact that only one of them was on the 
property deeds doesnt change that. Although it is appropriate in such circumstances, for the 
lender to encourage the parties to take legal advice to ensure they understand the 
consequences for them of the arrangement, which Ms G has confirmed happened.
Such an affordability assessment was completed. I have seen it and it showed that the 
second charge mortgage was clearly affordable and there would be a significant amount of 
disposable income left in the household after both the first and second charge mortgages 
and all other household expenses were paid. 
It is unfortunate that Ms Gs circumstances have changed appreciably, in that she has split 
up from the joint borrower and he is no longer contributing to the joint debt. However, that 
doesnt mean that Equifinance was wrong to have granted the mortgage or that it was wrong 
to take the entire household income into account when assessing the application. As such, I 
cant find that the lending was irresponsible, or Ms G was treated unfairly at the time of the 
application.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 
22 February 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman