DRN-3203912
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) gave him poor customer 
service in relation to his credit card account, unfairly applied interest and charges, and 
defaulted his account and passed it to debt recovery agents.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card account with Barclays. 
In August 2019 Mr H complained to Barclays about its handling of a third-party refund to his 
account  he thought it gave him poor customer service, hadnt applied the refund and 
hadnt refunded interest on his account as it should have. Barclays final response letter 
dated 12 September 2019 said it had now refunded the interest but had given Mr H some 
poor customer service and offered £50 compensation for this. It said Mr H should make 
payments to prevent his account going over the agreed credit limit and incurring charges. 
Barclays said Mr H could refer his complaint to our service but must do so within six months.
Mr Hs last repayment to the account was on 5 September 2019 and over the next few 
months Barclays wrote to Mr H about this. Mr Hs account remained in arrears, so Barclays 
closed it in January 2020. 
In March 2020 Mr H complained to Barclays about the interest rates and charges applied to 
his account. Barclays final response letter dated 26 March 2020 said Mr H hadnt been 
making repayments and it was entitled to apply interest and charges. But Mr Hs health and 
circumstances meant it agreed to suspend interest in January 2020. Barclays accepted it 
had reinstated the interest incorrectly when it removed this suspension, so it refunded 
interest and a late payment fee to Mr H, and offered him £25 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience this error caused. Barclays noted it sent Mr H a default notice in 
March 2020 and he should repay his arrears within four weeks to prevent a default being 
applied. Barclays asked Mr H to contact it about his options, and suspended interest for 
thirty days.
Mr Hs account remained in arrears. At the end of April 2020 Barclays defaulted Mr Hs 
account and recorded this on his credit record. Barclays passed Mr Hs account to a debt 
recovery agent in May 2020. 
In July 2020 Mr H contacted our service. He was unhappy with Barclays customer service 
and handling of a third-party refund, with the interest and charges it had applied, and that it 
had defaulted his account and passed it to debt recovery agents. Barclays objected to us 
considering the complaint as it thought Mr H had referred his complaint points about the 
third-party refund and customer service too late. This was because it was more than six 
months since Barclays issued the final response letter which addressed these points. 
Barclays said it had acted fairly regarding interest and charges, and in defaulting the account 
and passing it to debt recovery agents, but had nonetheless refunded interest and a late 
payment fee to Mr H. 
Our investigator said our service couldnt consider Mr Hs complaint points about the third-
party refund and related customer service, as hed brought it to us more than six months 
after Barclays September 2019 final response letter. But he thought Mr Hs complaint points 
regarding interest and charges, and defaulting and passing on the account were in time. Our 
investigator didnt uphold these complaint points. He said Barclays applied interest and 
charges in line with the account terms and conditions. And while it accepted it incorrectly 
reinstated interest after suspending it, Barclays had fairly put things right by refunding this 
interest and a charge, and offering Mr H £25 compensation. And that in the circumstances, 
Barclays was entitled to default Mr Hs account and pass it to debt recovery agencies. 
Mr H disagreed. He said Barclays had ruined his credit record and finances. That hed 
complained in time, as he hadnt received Barclays final response letter of September 2019 
and had called our service some time before emailing us his complaint in July 2020. And 
hed tried calling Barclays many times but the Covid-19 lockdown meant it couldnt take his 
calls, and Barclays had closed his account and removed his online access. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
third party refund and related poor customer service 
I know Mr H feels very strongly that our service should consider these complaint points and 
listen to all his calls with Barclays. However, our service isnt free to look into every 
complaint brought to us. Instead, we must follow the Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules 
set out by the Financial Conduct Authority in its handbook. These are known as the DISP 
rules.
One of these rules (DISP 2.8.2) says that, unless the business consents, we cant look at a 
complaint if it was made more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent 
the complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication
Barclays addressed Mr Hs complaints points about the third-party refund and related poor 
customer service in its final response letter dated 12 September 2019. Having checked our 
records Im satisfied Mr H first contacted our service about this in July 2020, which is more 
than six months later. Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to support his argument that he 
contacted our service before July 2020, despite us requesting this. And while its 
unfortunate Mr H says he didnt receive Barclays final response letter, Ive seen a copy of 
this letter and Im satisfied Barclays sent it to the address it held for Mr H. Barclays cant be 
held responsible if Mr H didnt receive this due to postal problems. Taking all this into 
account, Im satisfied these complaint points have been brought to our service too late 
under the six-month part of the rules. 
Barclays doesnt consent to our service considering these complaint points. So, the only 
way I could consider them is if I thought the failure to comply with the six-month rule was as 
a result of exceptional circumstances. The bar for exceptional circumstances is a high one - 
the example given in the rules is that of a consumer being incapacitated. Having listened to 
Mr Hs calls with our service and considered all the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
Mr H hasnt told us about anything that amounts to him being incapacitated or that meets 
the bar for exceptional circumstances. Therefore, exceptional circumstances dont apply here. For these reasons, I dont have the power to consider Mr Hs complaint about the 
third-party refund and related poor customer service.
interest and charges, and defaulting the account and passing it to debt recovery
Im satisfied these complaint points have been brought in time to our service, so Im able to 
consider them. 
Having looked at Mr Hs account statements, Im satisfied Barclays has been applying 
interest and charges as the account terms and conditions entitle it to. I note Barclays 
agreed to suspend applying interest to Mr Hs account at times, due to his particular 
circumstances. Barclays isnt obliged to do this, but can choose to. I also note Barclays 
accepts that when it reinstated interest on Mr Hs account, it did so incorrectly. However, 
Mr Hs statements show Barclays has refunded this interest and a late payment charge, 
and Ive not been provided with any evidence to suggest the amount its refunded is 
incorrect. Barclays also offered Mr H £25 compensation for this error. Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the relatively minor and short-lived frustration and 
inconvenience I think this particular error would have caused Mr H. 
Mr Hs last payment to his account was on 5 September 2019. I can see Barclays wrote to 
Mr H about his arrears on 27 October 2019, 26 December 2019, 30 January 2020, 4 March 
2020, and 26 March 2020. In summary, these letters said Mr M needed to make payments 
to his account, explained what would happen if he didnt, asked him to get in touch, and 
explained how he could pay including over the telephone, through Barclays website or 
through Mr Hs own banks telephone banking service. 
So Im satisfied Barclays made reasonable efforts to contact Mr H about his arrears, gave 
him reasonable opportunity to clear them and explained what would happen if he didnt. 
Ultimately, Mr H didnt make further repayments or clear his arrears, so Im satisfied that 
Barclays applied the default and passed Mr Hs account to a debt recovery agency fairly 
and in line with his accounts term and conditions. And Barclays is required to accurately 
report matters like this to credit reference agencies. I havent seen anything to suggest 
what it has reported in incorrect.
I know Mr H says lockdown meant he couldnt speak to Barclays and it closed his account 
and removed his online access. But as I say, Barclays was writing to Mr H about his arrears 
for some months before lockdown and before it closed his account. And Barclays has 
confirmed its call centre was still operational during lockdown. So, Im not persuaded these 
issues prevented Mr H from contacting Barclays about his arrears. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, our service cant consider Mr Hs complaint about a third-
party refund and related poor customer service. 
But we can consider Mr Hs complaint about interest and charges, and defaulting and 
passing the account to debt recovery. Im not upholding that complaint. However, Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has itself offered Mr H £25 compensation for this, so 
it should pay this to Mr H if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman