DRN-3073004
The complaint
Mr P complains AIG Life Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down his claim and avoided 
(cancelled from the start) his policy.
What happened
Mr P held an income protection policy with AIG. When he became unwell and was unable to 
work, he made a claim against his policy. 
AIG turned down the claim and avoided the policy. It said Mr P had made a 
misrepresentation when he took out the cover. Mr P had said he wasnt a smoker, but this 
conflicted with the medical records AIG had reviewed, and further information Mr P provided 
during his claim. AIG considered this to be a deliberate misrepresentation, and avoided the 
policy. 
Mr P complained to AIG. It said it had reviewed its claim decision again, and still thought it 
was correct. It said Mr P hadnt accurately declared information about his smoking status, as 
well as information about a hospital referral. 
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened, and said they didnt think AIG had acted unfairly, and 
had been entitled to turn down the claim and avoid the policy. 
AIG made no further comments on the investigators view. However, Mr P disagreed. In 
summary he said hed not previously been told AIG thought hed made a deliberate 
misrepresentation, and he disagreed hed done so. He said he thought AIG should have 
checked his medical records against his application after he took out the policy, and not only 
at the point of a claim.
As Mr P disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AIG thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered its question about smoking. He was asked the following question, and in 
response, stated he was a non-smoker. 
Are you a smoker? (We define a smoker as someone who has smoked or used any 
nicotine based products within the last 12 months)
Mr P was also asked the following question, and answered Have never smoked. 
Which of the following best describes you: 
Have never smoked
Smoke occasionally or socially only 
Ex smoker: last smoked or used nicotine products over 5 years ago
Ex smoker: last smoked or used nicotine products within the last year 
Current regular smoker 
AIG reviewed Mr Ps medical records and a questionnaire completed by his GP. The GP 
stated Mr P had been smoking 8 cigarettes per day as at September 2016. Some of the 
medical records were illegible and a clearer copy couldnt be obtained. So, AIG asked Mr P 
to complete a smoking questionnaire as part of his claim assessment. Within this 
questionnaire, Mr P said he was an occasional smoker during 2017, and had stopped 
using nicotine products in November 2017. 
Mr P took his policy out in May 2018, so the 12 month period AIG asked about at the time, 
included some of the period in which Mr P later confirmed he had been a smoker. And in 
relation to the further question about smoking history, Mr P had stated have never smoked. 
This contradicts both the GPs comments about Mr Ps smoking in 2016, and the information 
Mr P provided in the questionnaire completed in 2020. 
Mr P said he made a mistake when completing the smoking questionnaire in 2020, stating 
he had smoked up until November 2017, due to the time that had passed. He said the 
information he gave in May 2018 was more accurate. However, Im not persuaded by this. I 
say this because, when taking the policy in May 2018, Mr P selected the definition have 
never smoked, rather than one of the other options available relating to ex-smokers, defined 
as having smoked within the previous year or previous five years. And his medical records, 
and his testimony in 2020, reflect that he was a smoker in 2016 and 2017 respectively. So 
Im satisfied the declaration of have never smoked was incorrect.
Based on this, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to conclude Mr P didnt answer its 
question accurately, about whether or not he was a smoker. 
Ive gone on to think about whether or not Mr P had smoked within the 12 month period AIG 
asked about when he took out the policy. Ive considered what Mr P has said around his 
recollection of when he was and wasnt smoking or using nicotine products, and the time that 
had passed. And I note that his medical records do not provide any details of him smoking in 
the 12 months prior to taking the policy, only in 2016. When taking the application, Mr Ps 
declaration was that hed never smoked, whereas in the questionnaire completed after he 
made a claim, he said hed been smoking up until November 2017. 
As Ive explained, Mr Ps medical records demonstrate he was smoking in 2016, so Im 
satisfied that the original declaration of having never smoked was incorrect. And because of this, Im persuaded the account Mr P gave in 2020, about having been a smoker up until 
November 2017, is more likely to be accurate. 
I think AIGs questions about smoking status were clear. It gave several options to choose 
from in terms of classifying the status and clarified the timeframes it wanted to know about. 
AIG has said it thinks Mr P made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, and given the 
above circumstances Im persuaded that this was fair. 
Ive considered what Mr P has said around his expectation that AIG should have compared 
his application to his medical records within six months of him taking out the policy. 
However, there is no requirement for AIG to do that. The onus is on the consumer to provide 
accurate information when taking out the policy. 
Ive gone on to consider whether or not this was a qualifying misrepresentation, by looking at 
what difference this made to the policy which was offered. AIG has provided underwriting 
evidence which shows, had Mr P declared that he was a smoker, and had smoked within the 
12 months prior to taking out the cover, it would have still offered him the policy. But it would 
have done so on different terms. It would have charged a higher premium. And because of 
this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
AIG has treated this as a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. And in these 
circumstances, the remedy available under CIDRA would be for the insurer to avoid the 
policy and decline any claims. Its also entitled to retain any policy premiums. In this case 
AIG has avoided Mr Ps policy and declined his claim, as it is entitled to do. However, it has 
also provided Mr P with a refund of the policy premiums he paid, which it isnt required to do. 
And I think this shows it has acted fairly. 
Im aware AIG also had concerns over the answers Mr P had given to its other questions, as 
his medical records showed he had been referred to a consultant during the five years 
before he took out the policy, and he had not declared this. Ive not gone on to consider this 
further, because I dont think it would make a difference to the outcome here. As Ive already 
found it was fair for AIG to avoid the policy, based on the misrepresentation around smoking. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AIG Life Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman