DRN-3927435
The complaint
Mr S complains that Cirencester Friendly Society Limited hasnt made a claims decision for 
his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr S applied for an income protection policy in January 2022. As part of the application 
process, Mr S was required to answer questions about his health, and he didnt disclose any 
health problems. The application was submitted to Cirencester on 26 January 2022. Based 
on the answers Mr S gave, Cirencester accepted his application and the policy started on 31 
January 2022.
On 3 February 2022, Mr S contacted his GP to say he had upper body pain in various places 
such as his upper arms and lower back, and he also wanted to see a doctor for mental 
health issues.
Mr S spoke with his GP over the phone on 9 February 2022. He said depression and anxiety 
had started a month earlier. He also said he had quit his job as he felt it was becoming 
difficult, and that bodily pain was contributing. The GP said Mr S felt he had developed 
fibromyalgia.
Mr S was examined by his GP on 16 February 2022. He was noted to have widespread 
muscular pain around the shoulder joints, chest and back (being particularly tender on 
various trigger points). The GP thought a possible diagnosis could be fibromyalgia, but 
arranged for bloods to be taken to exclude any connective tissue disorders. Mr S was initially 
signed off work for six weeks, and then continued to be signed off work by his GP. 
Mr S made a claim to Cirencester. Initially, Cirencester declined the claim because Mr S 
hadnt disclosed his mental health problems in his application form. However, Mr Ss GP 
later said an error had been made in the medical records, and the note should have said that 
Mr Ss depression and anxiety had started in February 2022. 
Cirencester then reconsidered the matter. After doing so, it asked Mr S for further 
information to allow it to assess the claim, including medical information and information 
from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). Mr S refused to provide Cirencester 
with this information, but Cirencester wouldnt make a claims decision without it. Unhappy 
with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Cirencester had 
acted reasonably by requesting further information before making a claims decision. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cirencester has asked Mr S for various pieces of information before it will make a claims 
decision. Ill address each in turn.
Medical information
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is the 
relevant law relating to misrepresentation. This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. 
The ABI Code of Practice 2019 (managing claims for products, including income protection) 
says that insurers should have a justifiable reason for requesting medical information when a 
claim is made. And that insurers should only ask for medical information beyond that needed 
to assess whether the insured event has occurred, if and to the extent that the 
circumstances of the claim reasonably prompt the insurer to believe that there might have 
been misrepresentation by the customer. It says an early claim is not a reason by itself 
(though it may be a relevant supporting factor). 
Cirencester has made the point that Mr Ss fit note from his GP said he was not fit to work 
from 2 February 2022, which was two days after the policy had started. However, it says it 
would not expect fibromyalgia to manifest as a sudden onset condition, but instead it builds 
up over time. It also says the symptoms that can lead to a diagnosis of fibromyalgia are 
varied (it has quoted the different symptoms from the NHS website), and so it thinks only 
Mr Ss full medical records would show whether he had any of these symptoms before the 
policy started. 
Cirencester has also explained that its only seen Mr Ss medical records from September 
2021, as this was when he registered with his current GP. 
It does seem unusual for Mr S to have quit his job and consider he had fibromyalgia only 
nine days after the policy started, if he hadnt experienced any of the varied symptoms 
leading up to this (other than pain a few days before). I also note that Mr S told Cirencester 
that he had tried to self-rehabilitate after receiving his diagnosis, but he could not get rid of 
the pain and so he stopped work. Cirencester thinks this suggests that Mr S had seen a 
doctor about his pain before stopping work, which doesnt seem unreasonable. Cirencester 
also still has concerns that Mr S may have experienced mental health problems before the 
policy started, even though his GP amended his record.
In these unusual circumstances, I think the timing of the claim together with Mr Ss diagnosis 
was sufficient reason for Cirencester to want to see Mr Ss full medical records.
Reference to another insurer
On 8 March 2022, Mr S informed his GP that a company (that Ill call Company M) would be 
contacting them to ask for his medical records. He said that he gave authority for this, as 
they were acting on behalf of his insurer. Then on 17 March 2022, a further entry in Mr Ss 
GP records says that a request was made by a solicitor for his clinical record from 2016 to 
the present.
Company M were not acting on Cirencesters behalf, and as Cirencester has pointed out, 
Mr S had not made his claim with Cirencester at this point. Cirencester has therefore asked 
Mr S for more information about this as it wants to establish if he has a policy with another 
insurer.Mr S says that Company M are a charity that he had asked for help, and they wanted to see 
his medical records for proof of his illness. However, he hasnt provided any evidence of this, 
and I note hes been corresponding with Cirencester himself without any support from a 
charity.
If Mr S does have another income protection policy in place, this could impact any payment 
he may be entitled to from Cirencester. Given that an insurer was specifically mentioned 
before a claim was made to Cirencester, I think it was reasonable for Cirencester to request 
more information from Mr S about this before proceeding further with his claim. If 
Company M are a charity as Mr S has said, then I would suggest he provide evidence of this 
to Cirencester.
DWP information
When Mr S submitted his claim to Cirencester in April 2022, he said that he was in receipt of 
£450 per month from the DWP for a Personal Independence Payment (PIP) claim. 
Cirencester therefore asked for the information from the DWP explaining their assessment 
and calculation of entitlement for the PIP. However, Mr S later said his claim for PIP had 
been rejected.
Cirencester makes the point that, if Mr S was in receipt of PIP in April 2022, then his 
condition must have existed before the policy started. Thats because of a three-month 
qualifying period set by the DWP for PIP. 
Taking this into account, and the conflicting information provided by Mr S, I find it was 
reasonable for Cirencester to ask Mr S to provide information from the DWP before 
proceeding further with the claim.
Mr S has since provided evidence to this service that his PIP application was started on 18 
February 2022 and was subsequently rejected. He says the £450 payment was actually 
universal credit. We have provided this evidence to Cirencester with Mr Ss permission for it 
to take this into account when making a claims decision. 
Financial information
Cirencester has asked Mr S for further details of his employment history and his tax 
reference number. It requested this because he had advised on his application form that he 
had worked continuously for the previous two years, yet after making the claim he had 
indicated that was not the case. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Cirencester to request 
more information about this to ensure Mr S had given it the correct information when taking 
out the policy. 
Conclusion
Overall, Im satisfied that Cirencester acted reasonably by asking Mr S to provide more 
information (as detailed above) before making a claims decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman