DRN-2390731
The complaint
Mr N complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter irresponsibly gave him a 
fixed sum loan agreement that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In May 2016, Mr N applied for a fixed sum loan of £12,000 with RateSetter in order to 
consolidate his existing credit commitments. The loan was repayable in 60 monthly 
repayments of around £371. The total repayable, including the loan fee, was around 
£22,250.
Mr N maintained the monthly repayments until February 2017, when he started to fall into 
arrears. In March 2019, Mr N complained to RateSetter about the large loan fee that had 
been added to the agreement at the beginning (of around £6,500), the amount of the APR 
and that the loan had been irresponsibly approved as he couldnt afford it. 
RateSetter said it had made all the information about the agreement clear including the APR 
and loan fee and that if Mr N wasnt happy with the amounts he didnt have to sign the 
agreement. It said that as part of the application it had verified Mr Ns income and completed 
a credit check which showed that the lending was affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think RateSetter had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. However, he 
said that if it had done, it would likely have still concluded that the lending was affordable 
and sustainable to Mr N. 
Mr N didnt agree. In summary, he said that RateSetter ought to have checked his bank 
statements before approving the lending. He said this would have shown he couldnt afford it 
and that he was gambling large amounts each month. He said RateSetter should have seen 
he had taken out a number of loans in the months before this one which ought to have 
indicated he was likely to be in financial difficulty and relying on borrowing. He said other 
complaints about irresponsible lending against those firms have since been upheld. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are: 
1. Did RateSetter complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr N would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr N 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did RateSetter act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did RateSetter complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr N 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way? 
Before granting credit, RateSetter were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ns ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr N could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the risk 
posed to RateSetter as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as 
an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount repayable under the agreement was around £22,250 over a term of 60 
months. So this was a reasonably large commitment for Mr N given the duration and size of 
the borrowing. His monthly repayments were around £371 which also isnt insignificant. My 
starting point therefore is that a reasonable and proportionate affordability check ought to 
have been relatively thorough. 
I can see RateSetter asked Mr N about his employment including his annual income. He 
declared this to be £30,000 which RateSetter calculated to be around £1,900 per month. 
RateSetter says it also verified this income using credit reference agency data which 
confirmed that Mr Ns declared income was likely to be accurate. 
RateSetter asked Mr N what he needed the loan for and he declared it was to consolidate 
existing debts. He listed his existing debts on the application and RateSetter verified this by 
carrying out a credit check. 
The credit check showed that Mr N had a number of loans and credit cards with a combined 
outstanding balance of around £12,500. As Mr N was seeking to borrow £12,000 to pay off 
those existing debts, RateSetter assumed his only existing credit commitment after taking 
out the loan would be just the RateSetter loan as the other credit would be paid off. It 
therefore calculated that Mr N could afford the loan. 
There wasnt anything on the credit check that I think ought to have raised too many 
concerns with RateSetter. However, I do think it should have done more before agreeing to 
lend to Mr N. He was utilising almost all of his available revolving credit. However, there 
wasnt any adverse information recorded, except for one, which was a current account that 
had defaulted with a balance of £8. While it was a small balance, RateSetter ought to have enquired about this further as it might indicate Mr N was already at a point where he was 
finding his overall debts unmanageable. 
RateSetter could see that by consolidating his debts, Mr Ns monthly repayments towards 
his overall debts would go down. While this shows Mr N would be in a better position than he 
was before he took out the RateSetter loan, it still on its own didnt demonstrate it was 
affordable to him. I say this because RateSetter didnt have any understanding of what 
Mr Ns other regular, non-credit commitments were. 
Given the small default showing on his credit file and the size of the loan and monthly 
repayments, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for RateSetter to have 
asked Mr N about his other committed expenditure. I therefore dont think RateSetter carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before lending. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr N could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear what further information or evidence RateSetter would have sought if it had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. Ive reviewed Mr Ns bank statements for 
the months leading up to the application and hes also provided our service with a 
breakdown of his monthly expenditure. Im not suggesting RateSetter were required to 
request bank statements. But, in the absence of anything else, I think these give a good 
indication of what it would likely have found out if it had asked Mr N about his expenditure. 
Mr N says that his average income was lower than what was completed on the application 
form. He says it was around £1,700 per month. Ive seen this too from the bank statements 
he provided. However, I dont think it was unreasonable for RateSetter to have relied on the 
information Mr N provided them (around £1,900 per month), particularly when it had looked 
to verify this in some way using credit reference agency data. 
Its possible Mr N might have told RateSetter the true figure of £1,700 had it asked him more 
detailed questions about his income and expenditure. For the benefit of doubt, Ive therefore 
used that figure when assessing what RateSetter would have likely found out about his 
circumstances. 
Mr N has given us a breakdown of his expenditure in the month after the RateSetter loan, he 
says it was around £1,650 per month, leaving him with just £50 in disposable income 
towards unexpected or emergency costs. From looking at his bank statements, this appears 
to be broadly accurate, although some of the costs hes listed appeared to have been lower 
prior the application. 
Mr Ns own calculations show he had enough money to be able to afford the RateSetter 
loan, but I accept it would have left things very tight for him each month. Arguably this 
wouldnt be sustainable in the long term. However, Mr N had included a payment of £100 per 
month towards a credit card. 
The purpose of the loan was to consolidate all of his existing debts. From looking at his 
credit file, Mr N would only have around £500 left to pay towards his existing debts after 
using the funds from RateSetter. This means that even if RateSetter had reached a similar 
conclusion about Mr Ns expenditure to what Mr N has provided us now, it would have seen 
that within a few months hed have around £150 in disposable income each month (once the 
£500 credit card debt had been repaid). I think this would have been a sufficient amount to 
have not caused RateSetter concerns about affordability.Ive also considered that its possible (and arguably more likely) that RateSetter would never 
have reasonably discovered Mr Ns income wasnt £1,900 per month. This would have 
shown a much greater level of affordability. 
Taking everything into account, I think that if RateSetter had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks it would still have likely found that the loan appeared affordable and 
sustainable to Mr N. For this reason, I dont think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
Mr N has said that he was gambling at the time and this made any borrowing unsustainable 
and unaffordable to him. But as I dont think RateSetter should have reviewed Mr Ns bank 
statements as part of the application, I dont think it would have reasonably known about the 
gambling. 
Lastly, he says other complaints hes made about unaffordable lending against other loan 
providers have been upheld. As Ive said above, there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to 
what is reasonable and proportionate in every lending decision. Each case is considered on 
its own unique circumstances. For the reasons Ive given, I think RateSetter would likely 
have still concluded the loan was affordable and sustainable to Mr N even if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Did RateSetter act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr N says the loan fee was excessive, as was the APR and it wasnt made clear how much 
either of these would be. He says the APR was originally advertised at a much lower rate. 
Ive reviewed the documentation that was presented to Mr N, including the credit agreement. 
I think both the loan fee and APR were made clear on these documents. Mr N wasnt under 
any obligation to enter into the loan if he didnt think the terms were acceptable to him. 
Further, Ive not been presented with anything to suggest its likely RateSetter misled him 
about either the APR or loan fee that would be applied. While Mr N has said the APR was 
advertised at a lower rate, this isnt necessarily the rate every consumer would receive as 
the APR is dependent on individual circumstances. Overall, Ive not seen anything to say 
RateSetter acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman