DRN-4186392
The complaint
Ms F has complained that esure Insurance Limited incorrectly cancelled her car insurance 
policy. Ms F was stopped by police for driving uninsured. 
What happened
In November 2022 Ms F renewed her car insurance policy with esure by phone and paid the 
yearly premium in full. In December 2022 she was stopped by police while driving as her car 
wasnt showing as insured on the Motor Insurance Database (MID). 
After the police discussed the matter with esure, it was established that esure had cancelled 
Ms Fs policy in error immediately after renewing it. esure agree to provide indemnity for Ms 
F and so the police took no further action and Ms F was allowed to drive home. 
Ms F complained to esure. She was unhappy that esure had cancelled her policy and she 
hadnt received a refund of the yearly premium. esure asked Ms F to pay for a replacement 
policy while it investigated where the refund had been issued to. Ms F thought this was 
unfair as she was out of pocket. 
In February 2023 esure upheld Ms Fs complaint. It apologised for cancelling her policy in 
error. It said the reason was because the agent took a call -  after speaking to Ms F - from a 
customer who wanted to cancel their policy. The agent cancelled Ms Fs policy instead - and 
didnt send the refund to Ms F. For the distress and inconvenience caused, esure said it 
would pay Miss F £250 compensation and refund the premium back to her.
esure said it was for Miss F to arrange a replacement policy as she hadnt bought one with 
esure. 
Ms F contacted esure on two more occasions over a period of two months to chase for the 
refund and compensation payments. On the first occasion esure apologised and increased 
the compensation award by £150, so £400. On the second occasion it said it needed new 
payment details from Ms F to process the refund. 
Ms F received the £400 compensation award and premium refund on 25 April 2023. 
Our Investigator recommended esure pay a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused. 
Ms F accepted the Investigators view. esure didnt reply. So the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that esure incorrectly cancelled Ms F policy immediately after she 
renewed it and paid the yearly premium. I can understand Ms Fs upset and worry after 
being stopped by police - and the ongoing worry shes described between December 2022 
and February 2023 when esure replied to her complaint. Ms F explained that she didnt want 
to pay for another policy with esure until shed received a refund of her premium - which 
esure had failed to refund to her when it cancelled her policy. I can understand why Ms F 
didnt want to do this. She said she was worried about being stopped by police again during 
this time. 
Ms F explained that when she received esures reply to her complaint on 10 February 2023, 
she had to arrange alternative cover as it seemed esure was no longer providing indemnity. 
However, esure failed to refund the premium as promised until 25 April 2023, over two 
months later. And so Ms F said she was out of pocket during this time. 
I think the compensation esure paid totalling £400 goes some way to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I can appreciate that it must have been very upsetting for Ms F to 
have been stopped by police. Fortunately her car wasnt impounded as a result and she was 
able to drive home. But I think a fairer compensation award is £500. From its notes, esure 
checked on 13 January 2023 while investigating the complaint and found that Ms Fs car 
was still not showing as insured by it on the MID. I think esure could have offered to reinstate 
Ms Fs policy much sooner to put her back in the place she would have been but for their 
error. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to increase the compensation it paid Ms F by a further £100 in 
addition to the £400 already paid for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman