DRN-3492713
The complaint
Miss V complains that the loan she had from Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118
Money) was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss V borrowed £1,000 from 118 118 Money on 1 May 2017. She needed to repay £96 per
month for 24 months with the final repayment due on 15 April 2019. 118 118 Money sold the
debt to a third party on 25 May 2018.
Miss V says that she was in a poor financial situation before 118 118 Money approved the
loan. She says she had to take out multiple short-term loans to make the repayments, but
this led to the loan being sold to a debt collector.
118 118 Money says it asked Miss V about her income and expenditure, her personal
circumstances, and her employment details. It says it used industry standard verification
checks, which included the validation of her income, and that Miss V was asked to confirm
that she felt the repayments were affordable. 118 118 Money says it also checked Miss Vs
declared credit commitments against her credit file and was satisfied that the loan 
application was correctly approved.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that
118 118 Money had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available
information to indicate the repayments were unsustainable for her.
Miss V requested a final decision from an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss V and to 118 118 Money on 22 April 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
I didnt find the checks carried out by 118 118 Money went far enough in the
circumstances because:
oThe loan was for a car, to be repaid over 24 months, and 118 118 Money 
needed to ensure the repayments were sustainable for that period;
oMiss Vs credit file showed that her existing monthly credit commitments 
represented about 44% of her verified income;
o118 118 Moneys affordability calculation was based on Miss Vs self-declared 
expenditure which had not been verified;
oThe presence of multiple short-term loans and cash advances on her credit 
file were clear indications that Miss V might already be struggling financially.
So I had a look at Miss Vs bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for 
what proportionate checks may have shown. From these I saw that:
oMiss V was paying an additional £25 per month for car finance that wasnt yet 
reflected on her credit file;
oShe had regular expenditure of around £90 on items she hadnt declared 
such as a mobile phone and television services;
oMiss V also spent at least £150 per month on public transport  although I 
appreciated those costs may be substituted for petrol and parking costs 
following the car purchase;
oHer spend on food was at least £40 more than the £30 shed declared;
Taking everything into account, Miss V would have had less than £100 of disposable income
each month once shed made the repayment. I considered this, the fact shed need to spend
over half her income on credit commitments, and her reliance on short-term lending and 
cash advances, should have indicated to 118 118 Money that further lending was
irresponsible and that the repayments were unlikely to be sustainable for 24 months. Indeed,
I noted that Miss V only made the first three repayments on time before her direct debits
started being returned.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Vs complaint.
Miss V responded to accept my provisional decision and had no further information to add.
118 118 Money did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress 118 118 Money should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it refused to lend to Miss V, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss V may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss V in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss V would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce 118 118 Moneys liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money Limited) should buy the debt back if it is able to do so and then take the following 
steps. If 118 118 Money cant buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below:
Add up the total amount of money Miss V received as a result of having been 
given the loan. The repayments Miss V made should be deducted from this 
amount.
If this results in Miss V having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 118 118 Money should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss V.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Vs credit file about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. 118 
118 Money should give Miss V a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman