DRN-2444192
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from February 2018, Mr R had a motor policy under which UKI was responsible 
for dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include employees and others insofar as I hold 
UKI responsible for their actions.
In August 2018, an incident involving a deer damaged Mr Rs vehicle. Apart from the policy 
excess of £350.00, UKI paid for repairs.
UKI recorded that Mr R was partly to blame for the incident. For the year from February 
2019, UKI asked Mr R to pay a premium higher than in 2018. He renewed the policy. But he 
complained to UKI that it should not penalise him for a claim that wasnt his fault.
UKI sent a final response dated 21 February 2019. Unhappy with that, Mr R first contacted 
us on 12 August 2019. But he didnt send us the final response letter or get in touch again 
until late March 2020.
In the meantime, Mr R became eighty years old. For the year from February 2020, UKI again 
asked Mr R to pay a higher premium. He again renewed with UKI. 
In late March 2020, Mr R got back in touch with us. He complained to us about the 2019 and 
2020 renewal premiums. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint about the 2018 incident and the 2019 
renewal should be upheld. She thought that the incident in August 2018 was correctly 
recorded as a bonus disallowed/fault incident. She said the increase in price in 2019 was 
only due to the incident. She thought the costs wouldve been same for any other customer 
in a similar situation.
Our investigator said that, as regards the 2020 renewal, Mr R should complain to UKI and 
get a final response. Mr complained to UKI in October 2020 and it sent him a final response 
dated 20 November 2020.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The accident was one where he could do nothing to prevent it happening.
It was wrongly recorded on the industry database.
He asks what there was in that incident that increased his risk profile.
The insurers first renewal offer for 2019 was a basic premium of £423.36, a 41.6% 
increase to that paid in 2018. After a loyalty bonus this was reduced to £359.52, a 
20.2% increase to that paid in 2018, (which he paid under protest). 
The wrongly- recorded incident and the unexplained, confidential business sensitive 
information in the pricing of the policy has manipulated him into a vulnerable 
position.
He refers to a newspaper article about another policyholder.
He questions whether UKI correctly calculated its refund for reduced mileage due to 
the COVID 19 lock down. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The phrase fault claim is problematic insofar as it connotes lack of care by the policyholder. 
And the existence of a fault claim almost always increases an insurers perception of future 
risk. So a fault claim will usually have adverse financial consequences for the policyholder 
when his policy expires and he needs a new one. 
I quite understand that Mr R was not at fault or to blame for the accident, even partly. I 
accept his view that he is unlikely to be involved in an accident again.
However, an insurer will usually treat a claim as a fault claim unless and until it recovers its 
outlay. So a policyholder may have a fault claim recorded against him for an incident which 
wasnt his fault. For example, the accident may have been caused by a wild animal. 
Most insurers have agreed to submit information about each claim to a database. That 
reduces a prospective policyholders chances of mispresenting that he has made no claim. 
The database has been in place for some years. I cant say its existence is unfair to Mr R. 
And, whilst I understand Mr Rs sense of injustice, I dont find it unfair or unreasonable that 
UKI followed the usual practice of recording his claim as a fault claim because it couldnt 
recover its outlay.
Ive looked at UKIs confidential information on how it calculated Mr Rs premium for the year 
from February 2019. Im satisfied that the increase in the premium was driven by the incident 
reported in August 2018. Im satisfied that  after he challenged it  Mr R paid no more than 
the premium that any other customer of UKI wouldve paid in his position.
I dont consider the newspaper article is likely to contain evidence of what happened in Mr 
Rs case.
Even if UKI miscalculated the premium for the following year from February 2020 and 
miscalculated the mileage refund for that year, I wouldnt regard that as enough evidence 
that it had also miscalculated the premium for 2019. Im satisfied that it didnt.
As regards events in 2020, it was after the investigators opinion on the 2018 and 2019 
events that Mr R complained to UKI and got its final response. So the investigator didnt 
investigate the 2020 events and she didnt give an opinion for me to review. That may be 
dealt with separately.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman