DRN-2262350
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that British Gas Services Limited didnt properly advise her about the 
condition of her boiler under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms S had a HomeCare policy with British Gas, which included an annual service. British Gas 
serviced the boiler in 2019. A few months later, Ms S had an issue with the boiler, so British 
Gas sent an engineer to look at it. The engineer condemned the boiler. Ms S got a second 
opinion from an independent engineer, who said that the boiler had serious corrosion and 
this would have been apparent when the boiler was serviced earlier in the year.
Ms S contacted British Gas to complain. British Gas offered her £400 as a gesture of 
goodwill. However, British Gas then withdrew the offer and told her it had made a mistake 
when it offered her the money as it hadnt completed its investigation at that time. It said it 
was correct not to make a gesture of goodwill as its investigation now showed that it hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Ms S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that British 
Gas didnt properly inform Ms S that she needed a new boiler when it was serviced in 2019. 
She said British Gas should pay Ms S £200 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive read the information that Ms S was given at the boiler service. This showed that the 
boiler was found to be operating safely. However, No was ticked for Functional parts all 
available and a tick was made in the box labelled Advice in relation to this, which I take to 
mean that the engineer was confirming that advice had been given to Ms S. Under the 
Annual Service section it said 4 and then either N/A or NIA and Checked Boiler and 
operation.
British Gas internal record of the visit said Code 3 Code 4 checked boiler/ system. No FV 
has been done/ been on HC for 12 months so changed to update. British Gas explained to 
our investigator that Code 3 meant Your customer accepted your advice on upgrading their 
boiler and agreed to a free no obligation quote. You have provided evidence of your advice, 
which will help in the event of customer feedback, queries or a complaint. Code 4 meant 
the same, but that the customer had agreed for the work to be completed. 
Thinking about this, I note though that the engineer said that the boiler was operating safely. 
The issue at the time of the service seems to have been that there was a potential problem 
with obtaining parts for it in future. But, I dont think it is clear that Ms S was told this or what 
she should do as a result. I also dont think the engineer followed British Gas requirement to 
provide evidence of the advice given. 
So, I need to think about what difference this made. The issue identified at the service wasnt 
a safety issue and the boiler was working when the engineer left. What British Gas should 
have highlighted was the potential issue with getting parts in future, but this didnt mean that 
Ms S was required to get a new boiler at that time, even if British Gas recommended this.
A few months later, Ms Ss boiler was condemned. British Gas paperwork gave the reason 
as case not sealed. Ms S said that an independent engineer she then contacted told her 
that the boiler needed to be condemned due to a high level of corrosion, which would have 
been there when the boiler was serviced. Ms S told this service that another company told 
her that the boiler didnt need to be condemned at all.
Given that British Gas and an independent engineer appointed by Ms S didnt find a level of 
corrosion that meant the boiler needed to be condemned, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence to show that this was an issue that should have been identified when British Gas 
carried out the service. 
From what I can see, the only connection between the boiler service and what happened 
later in the year was that that if Ms S had been clearly advised that there was a possible 
issue with getting parts, she might have installed a new boiler earlier, in which case the old 
boiler wouldnt have been condemned later in the year. The boiler was condemned by British 
Gas because of an issue with the seal, but there was no safety issue identified during the 
service and I havent seen evidence that shows that a safety issue was missed.
It seems that British Gas did try and contact Ms S about a new boiler following the service. 
However, due to the lack of clear advice, I can see that Ms S might have just seen them as 
uninvited sales calls, so I can understand why she might not have followed up on this at the 
time.
Im aware that Ms S is also unhappy that British Gas offered her £400 as a gesture of 
goodwill and then withdrew the offer. But, British Gas was entitled to withdraw its offer, as it 
wasnt binding. Given British Gas hadnt completed its investigation at the time of the offer, I 
can see why it withdrew it, although I accept that from Ms Ss point of view that it wasnt very 
satisfactory.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint because I 
dont think that British Gas gave Ms S clear advice at the boiler service. As a result, she 
wasnt aware that it was recommended that she get a new boiler and would have been 
unclear why British Gas then contacted her about buying a new one. Had Ms S been in a 
more informed position, she might have replaced her boiler earlier, which then would have 
meant it wasnt condemned later in the year. But I cant say with any certainty that would 
have happened. Nonetheless, I currently think British Gas should pay £100 compensation 
because of the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S by its lack of clear advice.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 October 2020.
Ms S accepted my findings.
British Gas didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in line with my provisional decision 
and for the reasons that I previously gave.
Putting things right
British Gas must pay Ms S £100 compensation because of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms S by its lack of clear advice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld and I require British Gas Services Limited to pay Ms S £100 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman