DRN-4229383
The complaint
Mr F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) as it remained dormant, despite him contacting them to prevent this happening. 
What happened
Mr F says he received a letter from Barclays in February 2022 advising him that as his ISA 
had remained dormant for some time, it intended to close the account in May 2022 unless he 
contacted them. Mr F says he telephoned Barclays in February 2022 and completed a 
declaration for his ISA over the telephone and was assured this had dealt with the matter. In 
December 2022 Mr F opened an ISA with another provider and asked it to transfer the 
monies out of his Barclays ISA. 
Mr F says he was informed by the new provider later in December 2022 the transfer had 
been rejected. Mr F says he telephoned Barclays in late December 2022 to discuss this and 
was kept waiting for a considerable length of time only to be informed his ISA had been 
closed and that he would need to go into his branch to discuss this. Mr F says he was 
advised at the branch he needed to put the details in an email as the ISA was made dormant 
by Barclays. Mr F says what followed was a series of lengthy phone calls and branch visits 
until Barclay eventually re opened his ISA in late February 2023 in readiness to transfer the 
monies to a new provider, which finally took place in mid-March 2023.
Mr F says he has gone through an unreasonable level of stress and worry during this time 
and Barclays process even after it had realised its mistake took many weeks before the ISA 
was re-opened, and the monies returned to him. Mr F doesnt feel Barclays offer of redress 
of £200 and the interest refunded goes far enough, and it should pay him the same interest 
he would have had to pay if he had borrowed those monies, as he believes it has in effect 
borrowed those monies from him. 
Barclays accepts it made a mistake when Mr F telephoned them in February 2022 to prevent 
the ISA becoming dormant. Barclays says it has apologised for that and offered Mr F £200 
by way of redress for the trouble and upset caused and to pay any loss of interest since 
December 2022, when he intended to open an ISA with another provider. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt it was clear Barclays had made a mistake, but its offer of compensation was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The investigator says Barclays paid Mr F the 
interest he would have earned while his ISA was made dormant and in addition agreed to 
pay him interest at the rate offered by his new provider from the date it received the request 
from the new provider  so Mr F wasnt financially disadvantaged. The investigator felt the 
offer of £200 by way of compensation was fair here. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr F to learn his ISA had 
been closed and made dormant by Barclays despite him contacting them earlier to prevent 
this. 
The first thing to say here is Barclays have accepted it made a mistake, so when looking at 
this complaint I will consider if it adequately compensated Mr F for that. 
Mr Fs complaint centres around the fact despite him contacting Barclays in February 2022 
to ensure his ISA wasnt made dormant it still did so, preventing him opening an ISA with a 
new provider and creating considerable inconvenience, stress and worry in the process. 
I wont repeat everything thats already been said here as the background is well known to 
both parties. What is clear is Mr F did contact Barclays in February 2022 having received a 
letter advising his ISA  would be closed and at that point he was told the matter had been 
dealt with. Mr Fs issue is not only did Barclays make that mistake, the knock on effects were 
very stressful and involved various lengthy phone calls and inconvenient branch visits before 
the matter was put right. 
Its worth mentioning that Barclays process for recovering dormant funds is usually 12 weeks 
but here from the information I have seen it was concluded in six weeks. Additionally, its 
also worth saying that Barclays have informed this service their standard process when 
closing a dormant account, is to write to inform its customers its going to do that in advance, 
and it did that here in February 2022,and it doesnt  send a letter when it has closed the 
account, as Mr F feels it should have. 
While I understand the point Mr Fs makes here, its not for me to tell Barclays what 
processes and procedures it must adopt in these circumstances as thats not the role of this 
service. We now know of course Mr F did contact Barclays in February 2022 and this is the 
centre of his complaint. 
Mr F also feels Barclays process to rectify the mistake took a lot longer than it should and in 
his view, as it has kept his money for that time, it should now pay him the same interest rate 
it would charge its customers for borrowing money.
Without trying to minimise the frustration and upset this would have undoubtedly caused Mr 
F here, what Im being asked to do is to penalise Barclays for a mistake it has accepted it 
made and has apologised for. Its not my role to penalise businesses like Barclays when 
issues like this arise, instead I have to impartially consider whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of a complaint.
Having done so here, while I can see how strongly Mr F feels about the situation I have to 
take into account Barclays agreed to pay Mr F for any loss of interest he would have 
suffered as a result of its mistake. So, its fair to say Mr F hasnt suffered any financial loss 
here.
Additionally, Barclays have apologised for that mistake and agreed to pay Mr F £200 for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused. While Mr F feels this doesnt go far enough and it should pay him 35% interest over this time , Im not persuaded by his argument as that 
would be asking this service to penalise Barclays  and as Ive already explained thats not 
my role here.   
I think Barclays has taken fair steps to compensate  Mr F here and he should contact them 
directly if he now wishes to accept its offer of redress. 
While Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman