DRN-3312657
The complaint
Mr L complained that BUPA Insurance Limited continued to take policy premiums for his 
private health insurance policy when he couldnt have his required surgery and that at the 
2021 policy renewal the premium had increased.
What happened
Mr L has had private health insurance with BUPA for many years. In 2020 he claimed for 
treatment for his knee. He had some initial consultations around December and was advised 
he needed a partial knee replacement. 
In February 2021 Mr L called BUPA as hed received an email from the consultants 
secretary saying he couldnt have the surgery at his preferred hospital as the hospital had 
been requisitioned to the NHS due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr L asked BUPA if there 
were other hospitals for his surgery. BUPA told Mr L to speak to the consultants secretary 
as the consultant was best placed to know Mr Ls options. Mr L was concerned that he might 
need to see another consultant. BUPA said that may not be necessary and he should speak 
to the original consultants secretary first. BUPA told Mr L to update it about any changes so 
it could authorise the procedure. 
BUPA didnt hear from Mr L with an update about his surgery. Mr L told us that he was 
content to wait to use the original consultant.
Later in February 2021 Mr L received his policy renewal documents and the annual  
premium had increased from £4,119.48 to £4,735.42. 
Mr L complained to BUPA, in summary he said:
BUPA continued to take policy premiums when it failed to deliver benefits under the 
policy as his surgery had to be postponed and it made no attempt to offer alternative 
arrangements.
BUPA then increased the premium for the policy renewal when hed made no claims. 
He thought to do so was an abuse of the policy terms and conditions.
Hed paid a claim excess for the surgery which hadnt taken place so he didnt want 
BUPA to charge another excess for the same treatment later.
BUPA said:
It had asked Mr L to update it about his surgery when hed spoke to the consultants 
secretary but he didnt call back.
It acknowledged it had temporarily paid less claims while private hospitals were 
supporting the NHS due to Covid-19 but it was still authorising treatment and 
providing other healthcare services under the policy. 
When it knew the full impact of the pandemic on its claims costs it would consider 
whether a rebate was due to its customers. BUPA gave details about the rebate 
review and planned timescale and said it would keep its customers updated.
The 2021 renewal premium hadnt increased because of Covid-19, the premiums 
had been reviewed in line with its usual approach. BUPA detailed the factors it took 
into account in considering the renewal premium and told Mr L there may be some 
different policy options to reduce the premium.
It agreed not to apply a further excess to Mr Ls knee treatment and follow up 
consultation.
Mr L complained to us. He wanted BUPA to at least cancel any premiums increase for the 
2021 policy renewal.
Our investigator said BUPA had acted reasonably as to the surgery and policy refund. When 
Mr L complained to us BUPA hadnt communicated whether any refund of the 2020/2021 
policy premium was due to Mr L. Our investigator explained that if Mr L had now received 
and was unhappy with the results of the review he would need to first complain to BUPA on 
that matter. If there was no agreement Mr L could ultimately make a separate complaint to 
us.  
On the increase for the 2021 policy renewal premium, our investigator explained why we 
dont make a judgement on how BUPA assesses the risk for it to cover customers or the 
premium it charges. But we could consider if BUPA had treated Mr L the same as other 
customers in the same situation. On the information BUPA provided our investigator thought 
it had treated Mr L the same.
Mr L wanted to know how many complaints had been made to us about BUPA in the past 
two and how many had been upheld. He also said if the surgery had taken place when it 
should have done he wouldnt have lost his low claims discount (LCB). 
Our investigator sent Mr L a link to our website where we publish our complaint outcome 
data for all businesses and asked Mr L to let her know if he wanted more information. We 
havent heard further from Mr L on that matter. Our investigator asked for BUPAs comments 
on Mr Ls new point about his LCB . 
BUPA said the LCB took into account the full value of claims it paid across the policy year, 
not just individual treatments, and it had paid medical costs for Mr L in December 2020. If 
Mr Ls surgery had taken place as planned then his LCB would have been affected for the 
next renewal. If hed had his surgery the next policy year his LCB for the following renewal 
would be affected. So BUPA said Mr L wasnt in a better or worse position with regards to 
his LCB. BUPA added that as the scheduling of the surgery was outside of its control even if 
there had been an impact on Mr Ls LCB it wouldnt have been responsible. Our investigator 
said she wouldnt be asking BUPA to take any further action on that point.
Mr L wants an ombudsmans decision. He said BUPA shouldnt have continued to take 
policy premiums knowing it couldnt provide the full service he paid for as he was denied his 
preferred choice of consultant when he wanted the treatment. He also wasnt satisfied with 
BUPAs responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr Ls contract with BUPA  
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy say the policy is for one year (but can generally be 
renewed) and premiums must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance 
policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of 
the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk 
during that time even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. So BUPA 
would still be entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of Mr L making a 
claim during that time even if he didnt make a claim.
BUPA provided cover under Mr Ls policy from 7 April 2020 to 6 April 2021. BUPA is entitled 
to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of him making a claim during that time. 
Mr L did make a claim for medical costs during his 2020/21 policy period, which BUPA paid. 
I appreciate Mr L was disappointed and annoyed that he couldnt have his surgery with his 
consultant of choice as planned. But the requisitioning of private hospitals for use by the 
NHS was outside of BUPAs control. I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to refund 
premiums if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable due to circumstances 
outside of its control because of, for example, the lack of availability of certain medical 
professionals. 
Also, I cant reasonably say the policy didnt met Mr Ls medical needs. Hed successfully 
claimed for medical costs in the relevant policy year. Ive listened to Mr Ls call with BUPA 
and BUPA was clear that he should update it about his enquires for options for surgery so it 
could authorise the treatment if he decided to have the surgery at an available hospital with 
his original or another consultant. So BUPA was open to authorising treatment, it was Mr Ls 
choice to wait for his consultant of choice. I understand why he wanted to wait for that 
consultant. But as Ive said I dont think BUPA was responsible for his consultant of choice 
not being available.
I think it was reasonable for BUPA to say Mr L should speak to his consultants secretary to 
discuss his options for surgery. Mr L says BUPA didnt assist with arrangements for 
alternatives but as he didnt get back to BUPA it didnt know he needed further assistance. 
In Mr Ls circumstances I dont think theres any reasonable basis for me to say BUPA must 
refund his policy premiums.
BUPA has told Mr L that as it expects to pay less in health insurance claims than anticipated 
during 2020 it will do a review to determine if it will give a policy premium rebate to eligible 
customers. I think thats a reasonable step for BUPA to take once its able to establish the 
impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Our investigator has correctly explained that if Mr L is 
unhappy with the outcome of the review hell need to raise that with BUPA but can ultimately 
make a separate complaint to us on that matter.
On the increase of the 2021 policy renewal premium, our investigator correctly explained 
that its for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover and what premium to charge to 
cover a certain risk. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) doesnt regulate on the prices 
insurers charge or the methods an insurer might use to calculate a price. So we wont 
usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, the risk 
assessments it makes, or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk.
We can consider whether Mr L has been treated fairly and consistently with BUPAs other 
customers who have the same circumstances. BUPAs provided information to us to explain 
the calculation. I cant send Mr L all the details about the calculation as its confidential business sensitive information. Ive considered the information and Im satisfied that BUPAs 
customers in the same circumstances as Mr L would have been charged a similar premium.
BUPA had provided Mr L with information about how the LCB was reflected in the policy 
premium. During our investigation of Mr Ls complaint he raised that he thought hed been 
disadvantaged in how the LCB applied to his premium due to the surgery delay. BUPAs 
responded to that issue, as summarised above. Looking at how the LCB works Im satisfied 
that the delay in surgery (which wasnt BUPAs responsibility) hasnt adversely affected 
Mr Ls LCB.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman