DRN-4020827
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have unfairly registered a default with the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mr M says he was out of work since 2019 as he was looking after a family member and due 
to the pandemic. Mr M says that because of these factors he fell behind with his credit card 
repayments and some were missed. Lloyds gave him payment holidays, but in November 
2021 they said they were going to apply a default. Mr M says he spoke to them in December 
2021, and they agreed to place a hold on the account until February 2022. Mr M says he 
then started to receive text messages to say they had already defaulted the account. Mr M 
made a complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said there had been an interest freeze on the 
account since December 2019. During that time Mr Ms account had gone into arrears, and 
these had not been cleared, so a default notice was sent to him on 11 November 2021, 
asking him to clear the arrears on the account. They said a final demand letter was sent on 
30 November 2021 but this was not paid, so the default was actioned. Mr M brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said Lloyds sent Mr M a default notice 
in November 2021, but as he agreed a three month arrangement with them on 8 December 
2021, the account wouldnt default during this time. He said Lloyds confirmed in writing that 
the agreement would end on March 2022 and on 15 March 2022 Lloyds wrote to Mr M again 
to ask him to get in touch with them as there was no arrangement in place. But when Lloyds 
didnt hear from Mr M, they defaulted the account on 8 April 2022.  
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the letter dated 15 
March 2022 didnt contain an email address, so he managed to find an email address for 
Lloyds, and he emailed them asking for help on 23 March 2022, but he didnt receive a 
response. He says he didnt include his personal details on the email as he wasnt sure the 
email would be secure. Mr M says he rang Lloyds via another group in their company on 11 
and 20 April 2022.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. But Mr Ms credit card statements show that he missed his minimum repayment 
from his November 2019 statement and he never fully cleared his arrears before his account 
defaulted in April 2022. So Mr M was in arrears for a substantial period of time. 
A notice of default was sent to Mr M dated 11 November 2021 and it explained that he had 
until 29 November 2021 to clear his arrears. But Mr M didnt do this, and looking at Lloyds 
system notes, it doesnt appear that he contacted Lloyds prior to this date. So they would 
have been entitled to register the default then. But Lloyds showed Mr M further forbearance 
and they wrote to him on 30 November 2021 asking him to call them so he could talk 
through his options. The notes show Mr M rang them on 8 December 2021 and a three 
month nil repayment plan was arranged due to Mr Ms unique individual circumstances. 
Authority had to be sought to grant the plan given how long Mr M had already been in 
arrears.
The call notes show that Mr M was told that he must contact Lloyds when the plan ends so 
they can assess the situation. The notes show it was also explained to him that the interest 
freeze which he had on his account since November 2019 couldnt last forever. Lloyds 
confirmed the plan in a letter dated 8 December 2021. This letter was clear that the 
repayment plan would end on 8 March 2022. The letter was also clear that he had to get in 
touch with Lloyds towards the end of the plan and the letter displayed their telephone 
number. 
But there is no evidence that Mr M contacted them prior to 8 March 2022 as he had been 
advised to do so over the phone and by the December 2021 letter. So again, Lloyds would 
have been within their rights to default the account then. But they sent Mr M a letter dated 15 
March 2022 explaining that he just need(s) to pick up the phone and call us. The letter is 
clear that they may have to close his account if they dont hear from him and that being 
behind on his payments can affect his credit score and the information would stay on his 
credit file for 6 years. The telephone number is displayed twice on the letter. Im satisfied that 
Mr M received this letter as he sent a copy of this letter to our service. In addition, his credit 
card statement issued on 22 March 2022 asks him to please call us today and displays a 
phone number. It explains that he needs to get in touch with them soon or they will end his 
agreement, close his account and register a default with the CRAs. But Mr M didnt ring 
Lloyds in a timely manner, so they passed his account to their recoveries department on 5 
April 2022, and his account was defaulted on 8 April 2022.
Ive considered that Mr M asked Lloyds for help via an email. Its not clear why Mr M 
attempted to email Lloyds when he has previously spoke to them on the phone and the 
letters he received from them were clear that he had to ring them  not email them  and 
they provided the telephone number to contact them on. But Mr M emailed the complaints 
team for help, not Lloyds collections department. The email he sent them contained no 
account details, address, post code or telephone number detailed on the email, so I would 
not expect Lloyds to reply to an email when they would be unable to verify that they were 
genuinely talking with Mr M. By Mr Ms own admission, he didnt include further details 
because he was concerned about the security of the email. There were no income and 
expenditure details contained either, so Lloyds would be unable to agree to a repayment 
plan without this. And I wouldnt expect the complaints department to be able to agree a plan 
with him.
Ive also considered what Mr M has said about ringing another group in Lloyds banking 
group. Its not clear why Mr M didnt ring Lloyds direct, especially as he had a letter from 
them containing the telephone number he was asked to call. But as Mr M rang them after the 
default had been applied  and nearly a month after Lloyds sent him a letter on 15 March 
2022 explaining that he needed to ring them  not another bank in their banking group - then 
it would be too late to take any action when the default had been applied. 
Lloyds had shown Mr M a lot of forbearance during his financial difficulties. He was charged 
no interest on the account after 24 November 2019. They put several plans in place to avoid 
a default being registered, taking into account Mr Ms personal circumstances.  But as Mr M 
had arrears on his account for over two years and he wasnt in a position to clear the 
arrears, despite making some payments to his account, then Im satisfied that Lloyds were fair to continue the collections process which ultimately resulted in a default being registered 
with the CRAs. So it follows that I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman