DRN-2991750
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had a fire in his home. NFU accepted the claim and carried out work to deal with the 
damage. Throughout the claim, Mr C wasnt satisfied with how NFU dealt with it.
Mr C complained to NFU and when NFU didnt respond, Mr C brought it to this service. 
While the complaint was with our service, NFU replied to the complaint and accepted there 
had been issues with how it had dealt with the claim. This included the standard of cleaning 
that took place, communication by the loss adjuster and the amount paid in disturbance 
allowance. It had already increased the amount paid in disturbance allowance, as it 
accepted the original amount wasnt reasonable. It said the 50% contribution towards the 
undamaged parts of the kitchen was reasonable in the circumstances. NFU offered £550 
compensation because of Mr Cs poor claims experience and the length of time taken to 
respond to the complaint.
When our investigator looked at the complaint, he didnt uphold it. He said NFU had 
appropriately addressed the issues during the claim and it didnt need to do anything further.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require NFU to do anything further and for largely the same reasons 
as our investigator. I will explain why.
Mr C had a number of concerns during his claim about how it was being dealt with, the 
quality of some of the work carried out and the way the claim was settled.
Mr C didnt think the kitchen damage was fairly settled, as he said NFU should have paid to 
replace the whole kitchen. Looking at the wording of the policy, this said:
What is insured
DAMAGE to YOUR BUILDINGS.

WE will settle claims by paying the cost of repairing or replacing YOUR BUILDINGS.

WE may, at OUR option, replace YOUR BUILDINGS or arrange for repairs to be carried 
out.
So, the policy only provided cover for damaged items, which is standard in policies, and 
allowed NFU to decide whether to replace or repair damaged items. NFU offered the full cost 
of replacing the kitchen cupboards that it said couldnt be repaired, cleaned the cupboards it 
said didnt need to be replaced and paid a 50% contribution towards the cupboards that it 
wasnt paying to replace because of the loss of match.
Ive read the policy and it doesnt include matching sets cover. Im aware that Mr C has 
argued that because the policy didnt say matching sets werent covered that NFU should 
pay to replace the whole kitchen. But the policy says it only covers damaged items. This 
service would often think it is fair and reasonable for an insurer to offer 50% of the cost for 
the items that werent being replaced, which is what NFU did here. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
However, Im also aware that Mr C said the parts of the kitchen that werent being replaced 
under the policy werent cleaned to a high enough standard, as soot and fire residue 
remained on some parts of the kitchen. I can see that this was the case. When NFUs 
contractor cleaned the kitchen, it told NFU that the kitchen had been properly cleaned. 
However, it later told NFU that it had cleaned the kitchen to a standard to allow for 
redecoration, which was different to what it had previously said. Im aware that Mr C and his 
wife ended up cleaning the ceiling and walls themselves because a decorator told them the 
soot would be visible through the new paint. I can understand that Mr C found this 
unacceptable.
NFU also sent a different company to inspect the kitchen cupboards and doors. This 
company found a residue on the doors that required further cleaning. Mr C said the company 
told him the cupboards and doors werent salvageable, as it wasnt economical to try and 
clean them. However, the companys report said the doors could be cleaned and NFU then 
offered Mr C £460 in settlement to clean the cupboards. Im aware that Mr C has also said a 
cleaner told him that oak cupboards and doors needed to be successfully cleaned the first 
time or else the soot became ingrained.
Under the policy, NFU was entitled to try and carry out a repair by attempting to clean the 
cupboards. I accept that Mr C would have expected that clean to be carried out properly on 
the first attempt and that he had concerns about whether a second attempt was likely to 
succeed. But I think it was reasonable for NFU to rely on the findings of the person who 
inspected the cupboards. If the second clean hadnt worked, NFU would then have needed 
to consider what to do next. I understand that Mr C didnt think it was viable to clean the 
cupboards a second time and has since had the whole kitchen replaced. So, I dont think its 
now possible to say one way or the other whether the cleaning attempt would have worked. 
In the circumstances, I think that NFUs cash settlement to clean the cupboards again was 
reasonable.
Mr C also said he wasnt offered a disturbance allowance while he didnt have cooking 
facilities until he specifically requested it. NFU should have offered Mr C a disturbance 
allowance without him having to ask for it. Early on in the claim, it was agreed that Mr Cs 
cooker had been destroyed by the fire. NFU then offered him £1,440 as a disturbance 
allowance, which covered the period up until payment was made to replace the cooker. NFU 
then increased the disturbance allowance to £2,000 to allow a period for Mr C to buy a new 
cooker after he received the cooker payment. Mr C would then have cooking facilities again. 
So, Ive thought about this. NFU made the payment for the cooker so that Mr C was able to 
replace it. A few months later Mr C told NFU At this time the cooker has not been replaced 
as we have been unhappy with the approach taken in replacement to what is being 
allowed/not allowed. A few months after that, Mr C also said it was impractical to fit a new 
cooker before the kitchen as a whole was replaced because things like the extractor also needed to be replaced. But, on balance, I think it was reasonable for NFU to expect that Mr 
C would buy a cooker shortly after the payment for it was made. Mr C was unhappy about 
the approach NFU was taking on the claim as a whole, but Im not persuaded that NFU 
needed to continue to pay a disturbance allowance for a prolonged period of time after it had 
made the cooker payment. In the circumstances, I think the increased offer of £2,000 was 
reasonable.
Ive also looked at the overall handling of the claim. I can see that there were communication 
issues, including the cleaning company providing incorrect information to NFU, and that the 
cleaning wasnt to a high enough standard. Although I think it was initially reasonable for the 
loss adjuster to say that the first cleaning company should have been able to reinspect the 
cupboards, given Mr Cs strongly held views and his reason for this, I think the loss adjuster 
could have acted more quickly to suggest a different way forward to try and progress the 
claim. The loss adjuster should also have considered a disturbance allowance without Mr C 
having to ask for it. 
So, Ive thought about compensation. When NFU issued its final response to Mr Cs 
complaint, it offered £550 compensation for the issues during the claim. Ive thought about 
this and, in the circumstances, I think that was reasonable. As a result, I dont require NFU to 
pay any more compensation or to do anything further in relation to the issues raised in this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman