DRN-3489313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service they received from The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS) surrounding the non-payment of scheduled direct debits.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have brought this complaint to this service jointly. However, the points of 
complaint here stem primarily from interactions between Mrs S and RBS, and as such I have 
also referred to Mrs S alone during this letter, when appropriate to do so.
Mrs S had two loan accounts with RBS which were being paid by monthly direct debt from 
an RBS current accounts. Following a discussion with RBS in June 2021, it was agreed to 
transfer the outgoing direct debits, including the two direct debits for the loan repayments, to 
a different RBS current account owned by Mrs S. However, this wasnt actioned correctly by 
RBS, and this led to the direct debits not being paid. Mrs S wasnt happy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Mrs Ss complaint. But during this time the issues with the direct debits 
continued. This led to RBS making several credits, reimbursements, and compensation 
payments to Mrs S to ensure that she didnt incur any financial detriment because of RBSs 
mistakes.
In November 2021, RBS issued a complaint response letter to Mrs S advising of the 
corrective steps theyd taken to that time and explaining that because of the ongoing issues 
with the direct debits that Mrs S would need to contact RBS to reinstate these direct debits 
moving forwards. Mr and Mrs S werent happy about this, and they werent happy with how 
RBS continued to try to contact them following this letter or that their scheduled direct debits 
continued to not be paid. So, they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that RBSs corrective actions 
and payments of compensation up to the final response letter in November 2021 provided a 
fair and reasonable response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint up to that time. Our investigator 
also felt that the ongoing problems following that date were because Mr and Mrs S hadnt 
contacted RBS to reset the direct debits as RBS had explained needed to be done.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so 
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that RBS made several mistakes regarding the transferral of the 
direct debits, and so I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss evident ongoing frustration with RBS.
Where a business makes mistakes, it would be expected that the business would undertake 
any corrective action necessary to ensure that their affected customers dont incur any 
financial detriment because of those mistakes.
I think that RBS did that here, up to the issuance of the complaint response letter in 
November 2021, and I say this because by that time RBS had made several credit payments 
and reimbursements to Mrs S to ensure that the loan repayments that were missed because 
of RBSs mistakes were paid. And RBS also amended Mrs Ss credit file to remove any 
missed or late payment markers for the loan accounts up to that time. 
Finally, RBS also made payments to Mrs S of £125 to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset that shed incurred up to that point, as well as £171 to enable Mrs S to make the final 
scheduled payment on one of the loans. And in consideration of RBSs actions here, I feel 
that they do represent a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint up to that point.
Importantly, in the November 2021 complaint response letter, RBS explained the following to 
Mrs S:
Please note that due to the problems with the Direct Debit that you will now need to 
set up a new Direct Debit. Please call 0345 724 24 24 in order to do this. Please note 
that this will need to be done for your December 2021 payment.
RBS have confirmed that the reason for the above was because the direct debit payment 
instruction had timed out, meaning that a new instruction was required. And while Im aware 
that Mr and Mrs S feel that RBS should have simply reset the direct debit without having to 
speak with them, this meant that RBS were unable to do so.
I can appreciate how the ongoing nature of RBSs mistakes may have caused Mr and Mrs S 
to be frustrated with RBS to the point that they didnt want to engage with them. And this is 
especially the case when considering that the November 2021 complaint response was the 
second complaint response that Mrs S had received, because the complaint had had to be 
reopened when the resolution promised by RBS in the first complaint response failed to 
materialise.
But unfortunately, it remains the case that following the November 2021 complaint response, 
action was required from Mr and Mrs S to reset the direct debit, and that without that action  
which ultimately wasnt undertaken by Mr and Mrs S  RBS were unable to reset the direct 
debit which meant that the payments for the remaining outstanding loan werent made.
And it was for this reason, to arrange the reinstatement of the direct debit, that RBS were 
trying to contact Mrs S in the months following the November 2021 complaint response, and 
for which Mrs S has complained about here. And its notable the RBS reiterated the need for 
Mr and Mrs S to speak with them to reinstate the direct debit in later complaint response 
letters, and Mr and Mrs S continued to not contact RBS to reinstate the direct debit as was 
required.
And while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S were upset with the continuing communication 
attempts made by RBS, I feel that RBSs intentions in making those attempts were 
reasonable and did have Mr and Mrs Ss best interests in mind. Specifically, that RBS were 
attempting to give Mrs S the opportunity to reset the direct debits and avoid the outcome that 
unfortunately ultimately happened here  which is that Mrs S didnt reset the direct debits as 
was required of her, meaning that loan payments werent made and that Mrs S incurred 
adverse reporting on her credit file as a result.
As such, I find it difficult to hold RBS accountable for the missed payments that accrued on 
the loan account from December 2021 onwards, and this is because Mr and Mrs S didnt take the action that was needed to reinstate the direct debit on that account as Im satisfied 
had been clearly communicated to them by RBS not only in the November 2021 complaint 
response letter but in subsequent correspondence issued after that time.
All of which means that I find it difficulty to conclude that RBS have acted unfairly on 
unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs S here as Mr and Mrs S contend. And I say this because I 
feel that RBS have already undertaken the corrective action that would be expected of them 
up to the point of their informing Mr and Mrs S that they would need to contact RBS to reset 
the direct debit on the remaining loan account, and also because I feel it was incumbent on 
Mr and Mrs S to have contacted RBS to reset the direct debit after that point, having been 
informed by RBS that such contact from them was required.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs S were wanting here, but it follows 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing RBS to take any further action. I hope 
that Mr and Mrs S will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman