DRN-1653479
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a cash withdrawal of £150 that he says 
he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S went to a branch of Lloyds on 2 December 2019 to cash a cheque for £80. Lloyds says 
he also made a separate cash withdrawal of £150. But on 8 January 2020 Mr S disputed 
making this.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The cashier who dealt with Mr S that day 
remembers him as he is a regular customer. They had a discussion about a winter fuel 
payment that had been credited to his account a few days earlier and this was the reason for 
the further withdrawal. And he made that having been verified with his credit card and PIN  
as he doesnt have a debit card. The transaction information shows that this withdrawal was 
made very close to the first and could only have been by Mr S. But Lloyds paid him £50 
because it didnt respond to his complaint within its timescales.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
Mr S had told him that he didnt routinely carry his credit card and didnt know his 
PIN. And that no-one else would be able to obtain his personal information.
The first withdrawal was verified when he signed the back of his cheque. But the 
second was made when the chip on his credit card was read and the correct PIN 
entered.
Mr S had made withdrawals of £150 in 2017 and 2018 at around the same time of 
year when hed received a winter fuel payment.
It was most likely that hed made this withdrawal of £150.
 
Mr S didnt agree. He said that he didnt take his card with him and the cashier entered the 
PIN. He wanted to know what number the cashier had put in as he didnt remember it. He 
never asked for £150 and couldnt afford to take this money out. He only walked out with £80 
in his pocket and he didnt make any mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if wasnt authorised Mr S 
wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used to 
verify this payment?
Did Mr S authorise the payment on the account?  
I wont be able to say exactly what happened, but Ill be thinking about what is most likely. 
Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated. And that this followed Mr S formally being 
verified using his credit card and PIN. The journal entries show that the payment and 
withdrawal was processed from his account.
The issue I need to consider it whether he authorised the withdrawal. Lloyds has given a 
plausible explanation that he did. He was in the branch and dealing with this cashier for a 
regular withdrawal by cheque. Hed received a winter fuel payment for £150 into his account 
on 26 November 2019. Hed made a very similar withdrawal in each of the prior two years. 
The disputed withdrawal came within a minute and a half of the one he accepts he made. 
And he is well known in the branch and the cashier remembered what happened. He made 
an £80 withdrawal from his account each week after that including on 6 January 2020. And 
he then disputed what happened on 8 January 2020.
Ive considered Mr S account of what happened carefully. He says he didnt have the card 
with him or enter the PIN. And that the cashier must have done so. He thinks that Lloyds 
made the mistake and not him. And he says he only noticed this when his balance was lower 
than he expected. Hes certain he didnt have this money.
Ive balanced all these factors in reaching my decision. And Im afraid that the available 
evidence indicates to me that Mr S did make this withdrawal. There is no evidence to 
support a mistake being made here by Lloyds. And so, I dont have a basis to require it to 
refund this money. I understand how disappointed Mr S will be by my findings here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman