DRN-2955564
The complaint
Mrs S, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, failed to carry out 
effective affordability assessments and loans advanced to Mrs S would not have been 
approved if those had been done.   
What happened
Morses Club PLC has explained that it acquired active Shopacheck Financial Services 
(SFS) loans on 10 March 2014 from Welcome Financial Services Limited (WFS). Active 
usually means that they were open loans and payments were required still. Morses said that 
oans issued before that date were not approved by it. Morses has given us brief details of 
four loans approved for Mrs S after that March 2014 date and they are in this table set out 
here. 
In the information provided by Morses, they have been numbered loans 33 to 36 which 
indicates that Mrs S had many other loans before these four were approved by it. But neither 
Mrs S nor Morses have been able to send us any details.  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountRepayment 
each weekWeeks 
live
33 04/07/2014 27/03/2015 34 £400.00 £20.00 38
34 27/03/2015 04/12/2015 34 £500.00 £25.00 36
35 04/12/2015 15/07/2016 33 £600.00 £30.00 32
36 15/07/2016 30/12/2016 33 £600.00 £30.00 24
Morses explained further  Regarding any missing loans, whilst Morses Club did acquire 
some Shopacheck financial services accounts, we only acquired open accounts at the point 
of acquisition in March 2014. The loans we do not hold information for were most likely 
closed, settled or sold before this point, and therefore the accounts remain the responsibility 
of Welcome Finance now in administration with KPMG
After Mrs S had complained, Morses sent to her its final response to the complaint in which it 
said it did not need to investigate the July 2014 one (loan 33) as that had been approved 
more than six years before she had complained about it. So, it has sent us no details at all 
about that loan other than what is in the table. Later it consented to us including loan 33 in 
the investigation but we were not sent any additional information. 
For the other three loans, Morses did give us some details. For loan 34 it told Mrs S in its 
final response letter (FRL) that its agent took details of her income and outgoings. It said that 
Mrs S self-declared income and expenditure meant that it had calculated Mrs S had an 
income surplus of £125 a week . Morses has sent to us the statements of account for that 
loan which show us that the repayment rate was £25 a week and scheduled to be for 
34 weeks. 
 
For loans 35 and 36 Morses has explained that its records show Mrs S  self-declared 
income and expenditure declarations show an income surplus of £45.00 and £79.00 per 
week and you signed to agree this information was correct on each loan application 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that loans 35 and 36 should not 
have been approved for Mrs S and that Morses should put things right for her for those two 
loans.
Morses disagreed and I summarise and paraphrase its objections here:
- 17 months from July 2014 (loan 33) to December 2015 (loan 35) was not an 
excessive period of lending
- The loans increased relatively little by about £100 or £200, so this was not a 
significant enough increase to indicate any detriment to Mrs S. 
- Any missed payments by Mrs S were not severe enough to flag a concern to Morses
- The reason for Mrs S taking the loan was largely irrelevant to Morses at the time of 
approval
- The regulations do not stipulate that home credit should be used for short term 
emergency costs only. 
Mrs S representative has added nothing further to the complaint. It remained unresolved 
and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs S complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mrs S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 33 and 34, so I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I have not reviewed them. But 
they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs S had with Morses. So, they are something 
I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
The only indication I have that Mrs S took loans before loan 33 is that Morses has explained 
why they are missing and has explained the history of it having taken over from another 
lender. The fact it has provided us details which start the loan listing at loan 33 does indicate 
to me that Morses was aware that Mrs S had taken 32 previous loans. And so, I think that 
ought to have been something it considered at the loans 33 to 36 approval dates. Her 
lending history (even if it had no details) would likely have been a clear demonstration of 
Mrs S coming back for loans regularly. 
In answer to Morses comment about the 17 months from July 2014 (loan 33) to 
December 2015 (loan 35) not being excessive, Id counter that by saying that if Mrs S had 
taken many loans before it commenced approving loans to her in 2014, then by 
December 2015 I think that the lending history had been very long indeed. And enough for it 
to have thought that Mrs S had fallen into the habit of taking loans repeatedly.
I cant comment on the impact of any missed payments as Im approaching the lending for 
loans 35 and 36 as having been at the end of a long chain of repetitive lending. And I am 
using Morses own information provided to us as part of the complaint investigation to 
conclude that Mrs S had been taking loans for a long time. That ought to have been the flag 
to Morses before lending further. 
I have no information on any reason for Mrs S having taken any loans so I cant comment. 
I do notice that even on Morses brief details furnished to us, the income surplus of £45.00 
and £79.00 a week for loans 35 and 36 do make the calculations very tight considering the 
Morses repayments were £30 a week. Ive no records of these figures - just comments by 
Morses in the FRL to Mrs S. But I have used its own figures to demonstrate that Mrs S had 
very little left after repayment of everything. And regular use of high cost loans over a long 
time, as appears to have happened with Mrs S, does lead me to conclude that she was 
using it for subsistence living potentially. I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 35 and 36 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Mrs S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 35. I say 
this because:
At this point she had been indebted to Morses for 17 months at least but more likely 
loan 35 was the latest in an even longer lending history beyond 17 months; and .  
Mrs S first loan with Morses was for £400 and loan 35 was for £500. This may not 
have been a huge increase, but within the context of the repeated lending that £500 
looks to have been the highest figure by that date. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Mrs S was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need, and this indicated her financial problems may have 
been worsening.  
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mrs Ss indebtedness was unsustainable. 
From loan 33 onwards Mrs S was provided with a new loan a very short time after 
she settled her previous loan. 
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. 
I think that Mrs S lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 35 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Mrs S borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mrs Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 35 and 36 and Morses should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs S from loan 35, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs S may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs S loans 35 and 36. My understanding is that these loans 
were repaid and the accounts are closed.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mrs S the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ss borrowing for loans 35 and 36 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ss credit 
file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint in part and direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman