DRN-1812655
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1996. Mr and Mrs O paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr O, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So understandably, neither side still have the original documents from the sale. Indeed, 
under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Os data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs O dont remember buying PPI, and I also think 
thats understandable, given that buying insurance is not often memorable, and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs O into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a reasonable basis on which to conclude that Halifax 
misled Mr and Mrs O here. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales 
process, offered them a choice, and that they chose PPI  though I can understand if they 
no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs O, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs O, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr O was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt significantly 
affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.While Mr O had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered 
him more comprehensive cover. And its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr O would have the same 
work situation in the many years to come, and if Mr and Mrs O fell behind on the 
repayments, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs O about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr O wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs O in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs O could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs O mentioned that there was an occasion where they couldve claimed, 
but didnt. If Mr O was eligible to claim, but didnt at the time, then he may still be able to 
make a back-dated claim now. If hed like to do that, he should get back in touch with Halifax 
in the first instance. Then if he has any trouble with the retrospective claim, he may be able 
to ask our service for help as a separate case.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint about the sale of 
this particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman