DRN-3291786
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim for storm 
damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs A made a claim to Lloyds for storm damage when she noticed water 
leaking through her bedroom ceiling when it rained. 
Lloyds sent a surveyor to assess the damage. He says storm conditions werent experienced 
at the time the loss was reported. He found that Mrs As roof was in a generally poor 
condition. He identified slipped and missing roof and ridge tiles, deteriorated mortar and a 
large area of moss. He thought the damage reported wasnt consistent with that caused by a 
storm but was due to a gradual breakdown of materials and wear and tear of the roof 
coverings. 
The surveyor identified heavy staining to various areas of Mrs As bedroom ceiling. He 
thought this was consistent with rainwater ingress over a period of time. He also reported a 
large hole in the landing ceiling, but with no evidence of water staining in this area. 
Lloyds declined Mrs As claim based on its surveyors assessment. It says its policy excludes 
damage from a gradual operating cause and wear and tear. And doesnt cover gradual water 
ingress unless this is the result of an insured event such as storm or flood. However, Lloyds 
did pay £75 compensation to Mrs A for a delay in confirming the outcome of her claim.
Mrs A thought Lloyds should accept her claim and pay more compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused her. She referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He thought Lloydss decision was fair to decline Mrs As claim 
for the reasons it gave. Specifically, that storm conditions werent experienced, and that the 
policy excluded damage caused by wear and tear over time. 
Mrs A didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. I appreciate she will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If Im not satisfied that there were, I must decide whether Lloyds 
ought to have considered the claim under any other section of the policy. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Mrs As policy defines a storm as:
strong winds of 55mph or more, and/or heavy snow or hail that causes damage to hard 
surfaces or breaks glass. Well take into account the condition of your home as a well-
maintained building should withstand all but the most severe weather events.
I have checked the weather conditions at and around the time Mrs A noticed the damage in 
August 2020. The maximum wind speeds reported around this time were up to 42mph. This 
is below the storm wind threshold defined in the policy terms. I also looked at the rainfall at 
the time Mrs A reported the damage. There was some rain over the days leading up to the 
damage, but this wasnt at an intensity that could be considered storm force. As the terms 
above indicate, a well-maintained roof should be able to withstand the conditions reported. 
So, the answer to the first question is no. 
The prevailing conditions didnt meet the policy definition of a storm, nor did they meet what 
our service would consider to be storm conditions. Having considered this, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Lloyds to decline Mrs A claim for storm damage.     
Mrs A has accidental cover under her policy with Lloyds. Ive considered whether the 
damage she reported should be covered by this section of the policy. The terms say:
What we cover: Accidental damage to the buildings of your private residence.
What we dont cover: Damage caused by water entering your home.
Examples of accidental damage are smashing a window, cracking a bathroom sink or putting 
your foot through the ceiling whilst in the loft. These have to be sudden, unintentional and 
unexpected one-off incidents.
It does not mean damage caused by wear and tear or lack of maintenance, mechanical 
faults, or damage which is deliberate or occurs gradually over a period of time. So, for 
example, if your boiler breaks down, or your roof leaks due to its age or lack of maintenance, 
you would not be covered.
Remember, its a condition of your policy to take reasonable precautions to prevent 
damage.
Ive read through the surveyors inspection report. This says:
The damage is not consistent with storm damage and is due to a gradual breakdown of 
materials...
And:The area of ingress is also to various areas of the ceiling. The damage is consistent with 
rainwater ingress over a period of time. 
The surveyor reported several issues with the condition of the roof, including missing and 
slipped tiles, distortion to the tiles on the party wall line, slipped ridge tiles and a large area of 
moss to the left side of the roof and in the roof valley. 
The surveyors report includes several photos of Mrs As roof. I think its clear the photos 
support the deteriorated areas of the roof and damage mentioned in his report. 
Based on this I think Lloyds view is persuasive that the damage to the roof has occurred 
gradually over time due to wear and tear. Its this that has allowed the water to enter Mrs As 
home. This cause is excluded under the accidental damage cover provided by her policy. 
So, I dont think the policy provides cover in these circumstances under this section.
Having considered all of this, I think Lloyds has treated Mrs A fairly when relying on its policy 
terms and declining her claim for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any 
more. 
Finally, I understand Mrs A was unhappy because Lloyds took over two weeks to provide 
written confirmation of its decision to decline the claim. From its records the surveyor 
confirmed the decline decision at the time of the inspection. But this wasnt followed up for 
just over two weeks. Lloyds has apologised for this and paid £75 compensation to Mrs A. 
I sympathise that Mrs A has had to pay for repairs to her roof. I understand shes in poor 
health and suffered a recent bereavement. So, dealing with damage to her home must have 
been upsetting. But I think the apology and compensation provided by Lloyds is fair to 
acknowledge the delay in providing its written decision to decline her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman