DRN-3095980
The complaint
Ms B and B are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Ms B and Mr B booked a holiday to Europe and they were due to travel in late April 2020. 
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel. That advice remained in place until Ms B and Mr Bs planned 
departure date and their flights were cancelled by the airline. 
Ms B and Mr B were offered a voucher from one of the hotels theyd booked with but no 
refund from the other hotel theyd booked via a travel website. So, they claimed on their 
travel insurance policy. URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover for a 
change in FCDO advice. However, URV did offer Ms B and Mr B £150 compensation due to 
the customer service they received during the claims handling process. Ms B and Mr B 
appealed the decision to decline their claim but URV maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She asked Ms B and Mr B whether the 
voucher theyd been offered was still available to them and they confirmed it had been 
extended until 2022. They explained that theyd subsequently got a refund from the travel 
website for the other hotel. The investigator didnt uphold Ms B and Ms Bs complaint 
because she didnt think theyd experienced a financial loss. 
Ms B and Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. They didnt think it was fair that the 
investigator introduced a reason to decline the claim that URV had not mentioned. They also 
explained that they were unlikely to be able to rebook with the hotel for various reasons 
including the ongoing impact of Covid-19, the time of year they want to visit and the potential 
increased cost of booking. So, they asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Page seven of the policy terms and conditions sets out the circumstances under which URV 
offer cover to policyholders who are unable to go on their trip. It says cover will be provided 
if;
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a business associate, or the person 
you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died; 
Your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood; 
You were called for jury service or required as a witness if (sic) a court of law 
Your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative 
accommodation is not available; 
You, or a travelling companion were made redundant; 
You, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders 
cancelled 
This is what we will do: 
We will pay you up to £5000 for your share of any costs that are directly related to 
your trip, which you have paid and cannot get back from anyone else, or which 
cannot be transferred or used for another purpose. 
Im not upholding Ms B and Mr Bs complaint because: 
Ms B and Mr B dont think its fair that the investigator introduced this issue as part of 
her investigation, when URV hadnt declined their claim for that reason. But our 
service has an inquisitorial remit and its my role to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. One of the factors I need to consider is whether 
Ms B and Mr B have experienced a financial loss. As Ms B and Mr B have the option 
to move their trip to a new date, this is a relevant consideration when considering 
what is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms B and Mr B have now received a cash refund from one of the hotels, but they 
have the option to rebook the other hotel up until December 2022. The policy terms 
say that they can only recover costs which they have paid and cannot get back from 
anyone else, or which cannot be transferred or used for another purpose. Mr and 
Ms B can rebook with the hotel at any time during the next year. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable to conclude that this is a cost theyve been able to recover as theyre 
effectively able to transfer their booking to a future date. I appreciate that Ms B and 
Mr B dont consider this to be a recovery of their loss. But Im satisfied theyve been 
offered a voucher which represents the cash equivalent of what they paid the hotel.
I have thought about the points Ms B and Mr B have raised about using the voucher. 
Theyve pointed out that it may not be possible to book, prices may have increased 
and the cost of going on holiday has generally increased due to testing requirements. 
However, I still dont think that the terms of the voucher offered are unreasonably 
restrictive based on the evidence provided. Ms B and Mr B have more than a year 
left to use the voucher and I dont think that its fair and reasonable to consider their 
loss to be irrecoverable at this point in time.   
Ive also taken into account whether Ms B and Mr Bs claim should be considered 
under the section of the policy which offers cover if their trip was disrupted due a 
major event. But this section of the cover only applies if a major event occurs while 
you are away. As Ms B and Mr B cancelled their trip, I dont think this term applies to 
their claim as a major event did not occur while they were away. 
Ms B and Mr B have said that theyve felt penalised for being early bookers and that 
they are being treated as if they could have anticipated the impact of Covid-19. 
I accept that they bought their policy, and booked their holiday, at a time when Covid-19 wasnt a known issue. But the fact remains that Ms B and Mr B have received a 
voucher to the value of their original hotel booking. So, the timing of their booking, 
and the timing of the purchase of their policy, arent central to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman