DRN-3006656
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs B says Vanquis should not have allowed her to open a credit card account as it ought to 
have been clear to it that it would be unaffordable. She says she was a homemaker with 
limited income and the lending caused her financial difficulties. Mrs B would like the interest 
and charges refunded and says the lending was irresponsible as well as a later credit limit 
increase.
Vanquis says it carried out appropriate checks on Mrs Bs application. It says she declared 
an income of £12,000 with a debt of £100. It also says it carried out appropriate checks on 
the credit limit increase from £500 to £1,000 in January 2018. Vanquis says Mrs B made 
appropriate payments before the increase and wasnt aware of any financial difficulties at the 
time.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vnaquis had carried out appropriate checks on the application and that Mrs B had 
limited debt or any adverse information on her credit file. The investigator also thought 
appropriate checks were carried out before the credit limit increase and that Vanquis was 
entitled to consider Mrs Bs appropriate account management.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and says her declared income may have been exaggerated 
and that family members had been helping her make required repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the amount and 
type of any lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than a loan or 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Vanquiss checks to have been as detailed as for 
those types of lending.
Im satisfied Mrs B declared an income or £12,000 and that Vanquis carried out appropriate 
checks on her credit file. I can see that Vanquis calculated Mrs Bs debt at what I think was 
an extremely low amount of £100 and concluded that she didnt have any recent adverse 
information on her credit file such as recent defaults or missed payments. So, Im satisfied 
Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs Bs credit application and 
was reasonably entitled to conclude the lending was affordable. I also think Vanquis 
approved what I think was a modest credit limit of £500
I can see Mrs B made required payments and managed her account appropriately before the 
credit limit increase. So, Im also satisfied Vanquis carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on that increase and again approved a modest increase of £500 to the credit limit.
I appreciate Mrs B says her declared income may have been inflated and that family helped 
her make the required repayments. But I dont think Vanquis could reasonably have known 
about that and in those circumstances, I cant fairly hold it responsible for that.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis carried out appropriate checks on Mrs Bs credit card account 
application and on the later credit limit increase. Im also satisfied the lending was on the 
face of it affordable and that Mrs B managed her account appropriately for some time after 
the credit limit increase which I think provides additional evidence that the lending was 
affordable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman