DRN-2770138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were made aware of damage to their chimney by a passer-by and they made 
a claim to UKI under their insurance policy. They think the damage happened on or around 
10 August 2019, as there were high winds around that time and their neighbours and 
themselves had experienced other weather-related problems. They said that two miles away 
winds were recorded as gusting over 59mph at the time of the damage.
Mr and Mrs W said when UKIs appointed contractor examined the damage, it said the wind 
had tilted the chimney stack, causing damage to the stack, guttering, flashing and tiling. He 
had no reason to assume the claim would be declined as long as the wind speed was over 
55mph.
UKI reviewed the evidence and photos presented by their representative and reviewed local 
weather records and concluded the damage to Mr and Mrs Ws property wasnt consistent 
with storm damage. UKI said the wind speed didnt exceed 55mph, so wasnt consistent with 
storm conditions and they said the damage to the roof was caused by wear and tear and as 
this had occurred gradually it wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs W had the roof repaired at their own cost, but they said at no time did UKI ask 
whether the chimney stack was dangerous or whether the roof was leaking.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. His own investigations identified winds consistent with 
storm intensity and he thought the damage was more likely to have been caused by a one-
off storm event rather than wear and tear. UKI questioned the date of the storm and didnt 
think the damage was caused by a one-off event, so they have asked for the case to be 
looked at by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 11 March 2021. I said:
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
There is some dispute over the actual date the damage took place. UKI have said that Mr 
and Mrs W advised they noticed the damage on 19 August 2019. UKI were unable to 
provide details of the call, however, I dont think this really matters as Mr and Mrs W have 
never said they knew exactly when the damage occurred. In their complaint to our service, 
they said it was likely to have happened on or around 10 August 2019 as they and their 
neighbours had experienced other damage at that time, but they were alerted to the actual 
damage afterwards by someone passing by their house. Ive no reason to doubt what they 
have told our service.
UKI have shown from their own records that the winds reached 54mph on 10 August 2019 at 
Mr and Mrs Ws post code. I have also noted that the winds were recorded as 48mph the 
day previously and 36 mph the day afterwards. Using the services resources, I can check 
the weather 10 miles away and can also see the wind gusts reached 54mph on the 9,10 and 
11 August 2019.
I have also read the report of UKIs appointed contractor, who reported Our investigations
have noted that the house is just 500 meters from the ocean and any SW or SE winds would 
be intensified as the 'ocean village' acts as a wind break directly from the shore. The period 
over which the damage would have occurred from the 8th August to the 19th.
The policy doesnt define what storm conditions are, so I have considered what our service 
would normally consider as a storm. I have looked at the evidence and I think it is likely that 
storm conditions did occur in the area during the period of the claim. There is evidence of 
significant winds in the area and UKIs appointed contractor has suggested these winds may 
have been even stronger given the geography of the property concerned as it was so close 
to the sea. 
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
The strength of winds that were encountered around the claim date suggests it was possible 
that these could have caused some structural damage to a property. Its likely that the 
damage caused by winds of this strength is likely to be light structural damage and I think 
the leaning of the chimney stack is an example of what maybe expected for this storm 
intensity.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of the damage or whether the damage 
was already there or whether the storm simply highlighted an existing problem.
I have looked at the report from UKIs appointed contractor and they reported
observation of the roof tiles on both elevations, particularly the gap between the tiles 
created by the movement, shows that the surface of the uncovered parts of the tiles 
is weathered, which is not what you would expect had the movement been sudden 
and recent. The recently uncovered mortar bed between two of adjacent ridge tiles is 
weathered on its surface but is also displaying signs of age-related degradation. The 
gable wall itself appear to have moved away, which indicates a possible inadequacy 
of gable restraints, as we can see that the gable has freely moved away from the roof 
and its rafters. It is our considered opinion that the damage observed onsite is a 
result of a slow and gradual movement rather than a result of a single one-off event 
therefore on this occasion the claim has been declined.UKIs appointed contractor suggests the damage was caused by slow and gradual 
movement and they point to weathered tiles and mortar as a sign of this. However, when I 
look at the photos that support the report, I dont find the report persuasive. I think it more 
likely that the storm caused the damage. I agree that the tiles look weathered, but I dont 
expect this is different to other properties in the area. I have also observed that there doesnt 
appear to be any tiles missing from the roof. If the roof hadnt been maintained properly, I 
would have expected missing tiles or cracked tiles but there arent signs of this in the photos. 
If the roof was in poor condition and showing signs of wear and tear, I would also have 
expected the property to have been showing signs of water ingress, but this doesnt seem to 
be the case here either.
I think it more likely that this damage was primarily caused by a sudden event, otherwise 
there would have been evidence of damage at an earlier stage through Mr and Mrs W 
experiencing other problems with the roof. There is nothing to suggest the chimney was 
breaking away from the roof before the storm occurred. I think it likely that the strength of the 
winds caused some light structural damage to the chimney stack. I note the comments from 
the report about the possible inadequacy of gable restraints, but the report neither makes 
this point forcefully enough nor does it provide evidence of this flaw in the photos.
Therefore, in summary, I think all three of the tests I have set out have been met and 
therefore, I think UKI should settle the claim for the damage to the chimney and associated 
works in line with the remaining terms of the policy. Therefore, I intend to ask UKI to settle 
Mr and Mrs Ws claim on production of valid receipts. As Mr and Mrs W have been without 
this money, I am going to ask UKI to add 8% simple interest from the date they paid their 
roofing contractor to the date UKI settle the claim.
I think its apparent that Mr and Mrs W have suffered a level of inconvenience in having to 
carry out the work themselves when their claim was declined, so I also intend to award £150 
to compensate them for the trouble and upset caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs W didnt reply to my provisional decision.
UKI said it disagrees with the provisional decision. It has said I am solely reliant on the 3-
step process to determine if a storm took place and was the main cause of the damage. It 
has also said I havent considered parts of its loss adjusters report or Mr and Mrs Ws own 
builders notes. UKI said it is clear there was a gradual wear and tear issue otherwise the 
builder would not need to repoint worn sections of the brickwork, which tallies in with what 
much of our report.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm I reviewed all the information provided by both UKIs loss adjuster and Mr and 
Mrs Ws builder in coming to my conclusions. I think it more likely that this damage was 
primarily caused by the storm and havent seen enough evidence to suggest there were any 
material pre-existing issues to the roof prior to the storm.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W:
For the storm damage claim (on production of valid receipts) and in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy, plus 8% simple interest* (from the date they paid their 
roofing contractor to the date UKI settle the claim).
For their distress and inconvenience - £150 compensation. 
UK Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it that Mr and Mrs W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
UKI must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr and Mrs W ask for 
one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman