DRN-3553464
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society delayed the surrender of a whole of life 
policy because it incorrectly recorded the policy was assigned to a bank.
What happened
In late 2020 Mrs N asked Wesleyan what was required to surrender her existing whole of life 
policy and she was guided to complete an on-line request. When the request was received 
Wesleyan said its records still showed the policy was assigned. As a result, the surrender of 
the policy was delayed, and Mrs N was left concerned that Wesleyan had provided details of 
the policy to the bank.
Mrs N complained to Wesleyan and it upheld the complaint. Wesleyan apologised for the 
breakdown in its processes and for the service it had provided during the surrender of the 
policy. Wesleyan offered to pay £500 to Mrs N to reflect the distress the delay caused her. 
Wesleyan said it should have ensured the assignment was removed from its records in 1994 
when the bank asked it to. Wesleyan says it didnt provide the bank with policy or personal 
details of Mrs N.
Mrs N didnt accept the offer made by Wesleyan and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that 
Wesleyans offer of £500 for the upset caused was a fair and reasonable one. Mrs N didnt 
agree with the Investigator asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N has concerns that the bank who sent the assignment notice to Wesleyan in 1992 
didnt have her authority to do so. Mrs N says the bank didnt have any interest in this 
particular policy, although it did have an interest in another policy she held with Wesleyan. 
To be clear, Im not looking at whether the bank had the authority to assign the policy Mrs N 
is complaining about. This is being considered separately as a complaint against the bank 
and I wont be making any comments in this regard. I will address the concerns Mrs N raised 
about Wesleyan and the service it provided her.
I understand that Mrs N may be disappointed, but Ive decided the offer made by Wesleyan 
is a fair and reasonable one. I will now explain why.
In 1992 the bank sent a notice of assignment for a policy Mrs N owned. Im satisfied that 
when it received the notice Wesleyan acknowledged it and told the bank it would need to 
produce the necessary deeds before any payment could be considered. Although I 
appreciate Mrs N has concerns that Wesleyan may have provided personal or policy 
information to the bank, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that it did. Wesleyan did 
confirm there were no existing assignments or notices of interest on the policy. 
In 1994, Wesleyan received a notice from the bank saying it no longer had an interest in the 
policy. Although Wesleyan acknowledged this to the bank, it accepts it didnt amend its 
records to show this. This meant that when Mrs N submitted the surrender request on this 
policy Wesleyan thought the policy was still assigned to the bank. I consider its reasonable 
for me to conclude this error caused a delay in Mrs N receiving the proceeds from the policy. 
Ive seen that Mrs N contacted Wesleyan several times in late 2020 before deciding to 
surrender the policy. When she asked how long the surrender would take, Wesleyan told her 
it would be about five to seven working days. As it seems the systems Wesleyan was using 
showed the policy was sill assigned, I consider it would have been reasonable for it to tell 
Mrs N of this at the time she first highlighted her intention to surrender the policy. 
Unfortunately, Wesleyan didnt deal with this as well as it should have, and I can understand 
Mrs N would have been shocked with the unexpected delay to the surrender process.
Wesleyan has provided details of the surrender values it quoted to Mrs N in late October and 
November 2020. Although there was some additional discussion about a premium that had 
been paid shortly before the policy was finally surrendered, Im satisfied Mrs N didnt suffer a 
financial loss because of the delay. However, I consider Mrs N did have to contact Wesleyan 
on a number of occasions to ensure the surrender happened. It took longer than Mrs N had 
been led to believe it would, and this caused her some distress and indeed some 
inconvenience at the time. Having considered this, Ive decided that Wesleyans offer to pay 
Mrs N £500 Wesleyan was a fair and reasonable one.
My final decision
Wesleyan Assurance Society has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Wesleyan 
Assurance Society should pay Mrs N £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman