DRN-4079877
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment he says he didnt make 
from his account.
What happened
Mr M disputes a card payment for £3,900 made from his account on 8 June 2022. He says 
that his card and phone with all his details were stolen, and he reported this.
Barclays said that it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payment was made using the 
chip and PIN method. It didnt consider that there was evidence that this was made by a third 
party.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr M had told her that he 
had no phone lock code and that he had recorded all his personal details on the phone. She 
noted that his online bank account had been accessed before and after the payment. And 
this included access on 11 June 2022 with the device that Mr M had said was stolen 
suggesting he was in possession of this. Even if a fraudster had somehow made the 
payment Mr M was reasonably required to keep his details safe and would have been 
grossly negligent by not doing so in these circumstances.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that someone else had 
his card and phone. And he hadnt been given any help despite reporting this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if it wasnt authorised   
Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible for it. There are exceptions to that and the relevant 
one here could be whether Mr M acted with gross negligence in not keeping his details safe.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr M authorise the payment on the account which could have involved allowing 
someone else to use the card?
- If he didnt authorise it then was he grossly negligent with his security details?
It isnt in dispute that this payment was made when the chip on the genuine card was read, 
and the correct PIN was entered and so was authenticated.
Ive looked closely at the activity on Mr Ms account at this time and on online banking. 
Credits of over £3,500 were made into his account on 6 June 2022 which he says were from 
employment and savings. And he paid in £400 at 11:00 on 8 June 2022. There were log ins 
to his online account using Touch ID up to 12:03 on 8 June 2022. The disputed payment 
took place at 12:38 and was for almost all of the money in the account. The card involved is 
noted as being cancelled at 14:16 that day. On 11 June 2022 Mr M says that having 
received a new sim card he registered for online banking. But I can see that his account was 
accessed with the old details using the same IP address for Mr M at this time.
Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr M had with our investigator. He clearly said that he 
didnt receive his phone back. He had contacted his phone company to cancel the sim and 
obtain a new one. She later asked him how someone could have logged in using the old 
device on 11 June 2022. He didnt give any explanation. From the information available I 
consider it most likely that Mr M had logged in with both the old and new details.
I note the timeline of the last genuine use of the card and phone and the limited time before 
Mr M says an unknown third party was able to take his phone and card, find out his PIN and 
spend all the money in the account - just at the time when hed received a substantial 
amount. And when I consider that alongside the access to online banking Ive set out above 
then I dont find Mr Ms version of events to be reliable. So, I consider he most likely did 
consent to and authorise this payment.
Our investigator referred to him otherwise being grossly negligent with his details given the 
way he says he stored them in an unprotected way in his phone and as he was reasonably 
required to keep his security information safe. But as I explained above I dont need to go on 
to think about that as Ive found the payment was authorised. 
I appreciate that Mr M will be very disappointed by my conclusions given what is at stake for 
him. But I dont have a basis to require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2023.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman