DRN-3774755
The complaint
Mr M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) caused a delay in the transfer 
of his shares and that it gave him wrong information. Hes explained the amount of stress 
this caused him. And he feels HSDL discriminated against him.
What happened
Mr M has an execution only share dealing account with HSDL. He held shares in a 
company, which Ill refer to as U, which acquired shares and warrants in another company, 
which Ill refer to as A. The shares and warrants were distributed to Us shareholders in or 
around May 2021.
HSDL does not transact on the exchange where A shares trade, so Mr M wanted to transfer 
his A shares to his account with a third party. And HSDL told him this would be possible.
Mr M also received warrants to buy A shares, but there were restrictions in place which 
prevented him from transferring these, which he understood.
In brief summary, HSDL first received an information request about the transfer from the 
third-party broker on 26 May 2021. The transfer wasnt completed until 7 January 2022. Mr 
M says HSDL caused the delay and that it kept giving him wrong information.
HSDL said it didnt receive a transfer request from the third-party broker until 22 July 2021. It 
said it had to dematerialise the shares, as they were held in certificated form, and this 
process wasnt completed until the end of October. But that in the meantime it had wrongly 
rejected the transfer request because of a misunderstanding. The transfer was initiated in 
December, but a further delay occurred because the stock wasnt decoded. HSDL accepted 
this had been a frustrating experience for Mr M. It also accepted it had wrongly treated one 
of his complaints as being cancelled. It offered to pay Mr M £750 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr M didnt agree and HSDL reviewed his complaint. It reduced its offer to £250 because it 
said it hadnt breached its terms and conditions. It said clause 12.11 meant it wasnt liable for 
any lost opportunity Mr M had to trade.
Our investigator didnt think £250 was enough. He recommended HSDL pay Mr M £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. He didnt think there was evidence to conclude 
whether or not Mr M would have received a higher price if hed been able to sell his A shares 
earlier than he did. But he thought HSDL should pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the 
loss of opportunity. So, £650 in total.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I thought HSDLs original offer of £750 was fair and reasonable and I explained why. I said:
I find HSDL did a number of things wrong here. Im not going to detail everything but, 
in summary:
HSDL told Mr M he couldnt transfer his shares because no transfer was allowed 
for 12 months after issue. But this applied to the warrants, not the ordinary 
shares. This position was repeated by HSDL on several occasions, including in 
response to the complaint he made in September. Each time he was told this, Mr 
M told HSDL he did not want to transfer the warrants and he provided evidence 
to show he was able to transfer the ordinary shares. HSDL continued to repeat 
the incorrect information.
HSDL told Mr M on 9 July that he could transfer his shares to another broker. 
But, on more than once occasion after this  and as late as 28 September  it 
wrongly told him he couldnt transfer the shares because of an on-going 
corporate action.
HSDL knew on 17 May 2021 that it was going to receive certificates for A shares. 
And it received those certificates on 10 June. But it knew the certificates needed 
to be dematerialized before they could be transferred. It knew as early as 26 May 
that Mr M wanted to transfer his shares to a third-party broker. But it wasnt until 
19 October that it started the process to dematerialise the shares.
The shares were deposited in CREST on 30 November. HSDL didnt initiate the 
transfer until 7 December. But it didnt decode the stock so there was a further 
delay.
When Mr M complained in September 2021, HSDL said it had already 
investigated and provided a response in July. It didnt investigate things further 
and told him his complaint had been cancelled. HSDL should have re-opened the 
complaint because it had previously given him the wrong information. And it was 
obvious the transfer had still not taken place.
It gave the third-party broker wrong information on several occasions. For 
example, it provided the wrong SEDOL code, it said it only held cash for Mr M, it 
said it couldnt transfer because of the corporate action. And it wrongly cancelled 
the transfer more than once.
HSDLs position on this complaint fails to take into account the number of mistakes it 
made and the amount of stress those mistakes caused Mr M. Its provided us with a 
detailed timeline which includes all of Mr Ms contact, including several long and 
fruitless online chats where Mr M has had to repeat information several times.
I also find HSDL is trying to place reliance on a clause which cant reasonably be 
used to cover the mistakes it made. Clause 12.11 is to prevent HSDL being 
responsible for any losses made due to market movements when a share cant be 
immediately sold through HSDL following a corporate action where that share is not 
eligible for HSDLs service. Whilst that was the case here, I dont think the clause can 
reasonably extend to cover a delay in the shares being transferred when that delay 
was largely caused by HSDLs errors.
I also agree with Mr M that HSDL hasnt considered other clauses in its terms which 
are more relevant here. For example, clause 12.8 say that the shares resulting from 
a corporate action will be allocated promptly.HSDL says the first transfer request wasnt received until 22 July 2021. But that was 
because the third-party broker had asked for information  on 26 May, 16 July, and 
20 July  to enable it to make the transfer request, and HSDL gave it the wrong 
information in response to the first two requests. If HSDL had provided the correct 
information, a transfer request wouldve been possible shortly after 26 May.
Mr M says he wants compensation because he wasnt able to sell his A shares until 
theyd been transferred. Ive thought about this carefully.
Its difficult for me to conclude with any certainty when the shares could have been 
transferred if HSDL hadnt made mistakes and caused delays. There were some 
complications with these shares which will have made the whole process longer. But 
I think HSDL should reasonably have been able to complete the transfer by around 
the end of August. Looking at the share price around this time  and until Mr M 
actually sold the shares  its possible he might have achieved a higher price if hed 
been able to sell on 27 July through to 17 August, and on 20 September through to 
18 October. But the price was also higher on the day the shares were successfully 
transferred and for the following four working days. So there was an opportunity for 
Mr M to sell at a higher price if hed chosen to do so. As I cant say with certainty that 
he would have sold if the shares had been transferred earlier, or what price he would 
have achieved, and as there was an opportunity for Mr M to sell the shares at a 
higher price once they were transferred, I dont think its fair to order HSDL to 
compensate him for a loss he may or may not have made.
Mr M also told us that he wanted to sell the shares because, in his particular personal 
circumstances at the time, he needed the money. Im not disagreeing that he may 
have sold the shares at an earlier date if hed been able to. But Im not persuaded 
that he didnt have other investments he could have sold, had he been desperate for 
some funds. And Ive not seen evidence to show that he did this.
Its clear to me from reviewing the online chats and the phone calls how frustrating 
this has been for Mr M and how much of his time its taken up. And its not surprising 
hes lost all faith in HSDL and its staff. He says HSDL acted fraudulently and 
negligently and that it wilfully deceived him. I sympathise with how this has made him 
feel, and I agree HSDL made mistakes. It didnt have experience of dealing with this 
particular type of share  which was why it was ineligible for its service. And, whilst it 
should have taken more care to get things right, I dont think it purposely got things 
wrong.
Our role is not to fine or punish a business for its mistakes. Thats the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. If Mr M has concerns about the way HSDL 
is operating, he is free to contact the FCA.
Mr M told us he felt HSDL had discriminated against him on the grounds of race. Ive 
taken the Equality Act 2010 into account in arriving at my decision, as its relevant 
legislation. But I cant decide whether or not HSDL has breached the Act; thats a 
matter for the courts to decide. But I can consider if Mr M was treated fairly. Our 
service asked Mr M why he felt he had been discriminated against and Mr M said, in 
summary, that HSDL said it didnt understand him, implying he had 
miscommunicated. He thinks HSDL chose not to listen because of racism, prejudice 
or incompetence. He thinks some staff may hold negative views towards people who 
have non-English names.
I acknowledge and empathise how HSDLs repeated errors and lack of 
understanding has made Mr M feel. And, while I cant see any evidence to suggest HSDL did this intentionally, I dont think it has done enough to understand the impact 
it has had on Mr M and why he feels this way; and why, as a result, he has lost faith 
in HSDL. I have taken this into account when assessing how to put things right for Mr 
M.
HSDL agreed with my provisional decision. Mr M didnt agree and set out in some detail 
why. In summary, he said:
He didnt sell A shares immediately when he received them in January 2022 because it 
was a depreciating market; he was hoping the shares would reach previous highs of 
1.30p; and there were unlikely to be any buyers for the amount of shares he had to sell.
He couldnt sell other investments instead of A shares because his account was in the 
red. He needed to obtain the cash from the sale of A shares. And he didnt see any 
benefit in holding A shares for the long term, whereas he thought his other shareholdings 
had better prospects and he wanted to keep them.
He would have sold A shares if hed received them earlier  he told HSDL that I need to 
sell asap.
HSDL is not inexperienced, it was negligent.
He shouldnt have to contact the FCA. This service should take into account FCA 
regulations when making its decision.
HSDL wrongly kept the shares in certificated format. And it sent the wrong documents to 
the registrar, due to its misunderstanding, which delayed the dematerialisation. 
HSDL owed him a duty of care, but it restricted his ability to trade.
HSDL admitted in its records that we are practically withholding the customers access 
to his holding and that a significant offer should be made. It has admitted liability, he 
has been disadvantaged by HSDLs action, and he should be compensated. He could 
have sold when the price was 1.30p. His loss should be calculated using that price, plus 
interest at 8%.
HSDL deliberately left out a chat log when it provided its file to this service, in a clear 
attempt to deceive. 
HSDL thinks he cannot read, which is discriminatory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far 
less detail than the parties and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of 
information here but Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.In response to my provisional decision, Mr M said he wants compensation for not being able 
to sell the shares. And he has raised further comments in which he suggests HSDL behaved 
negligently, deceitfully, and discriminatorily.
Ive already concluded that HSDL made a number of mistakes that led to the delay in the 
transfer of A shares. Ive thought carefully about what Mr M said in response to my 
provisional decision. And Ive looked again at HSDLs records and, in particular, the online 
chats. Having done so, my conclusion remains the same. HSDL didnt have experience of 
this type of share and it made mistakes. It should have taken more care to get things right. 
And it should have listened to Mr M to avoid him having to continually explain the same 
thing. It provided a poor service to Mr M and it didnt recognise how its errors and lack of 
understanding impacted on him. I appreciate why Mr M has no faith in HSDL and why this 
has led him to make some of the comments he has. But I do not find HSDL deliberately 
made mistakes or set out to make things difficult for Mr M.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think HSDL needed to compensate Mr M 
for not being able to sell his A shares. Ive carefully reconsidered this, taking into account his 
comments in response to my provisional decision.
Im satisfied theres evidence to show that Mr M wanted to sell his shares. On 9 September 
2021 he told HSDL, I need access to those shares because I want to sell them at the 
highest price. And on 12 November 2021 he said, It was my intention to sell when the 
shares were distributed in May and buy back towards Q4 to coincide with the completion of 
the facility by A. A few days later he said, I cant fully utilise my funds for the bull run 
towards the end of Q4.. And then, at the beginning of December, he said that he was in 
urgent need of access to the shares because his portfolio was in the red. 
But, having concluded Mr M wanted to sell his shares, it doesnt automatically follow that the 
inability to sell his shares led to a financial loss. Mr M says that, if HSDL hadnt delayed the 
transfer, he could have sold his shares for 1.30p. I disagree. That price was only reached on 
two days in May 2021 before HSDL says it received the shares and before the third-party 
broker had requested a transfer.
As set out in my provisional decision, I think its reasonable that the transfer should have 
been completed by the end of August 2021. So Ive looked at the share price from 
1 September 2021 onwards. But I cant say with any certainty when Mr M would have sold 
his shares and what price he would have achieved. Hes told us he was hoping to maximise 
his profit and had a price of around 1.30p in his mind. As the price during this period only 
reached a high of 0.927p, I think its more likely than not that he would have decided not to 
sell at this price. So I cant conclude hes made a financial loss for which he should be 
compensated.
I had concluded that Mr M didnt do enough to mitigate any loss  because, I said, he could 
have sold A shares in the few days after the shares were transferred to him and obtained a 
higher price. But, as hes highlighted, he had a large holding of shares and trading volumes 
reported around that time were mainly zero. So I now agree that he would have found it 
difficult, and perhaps impossible, to sell his holding of A shares earlier than he did. But that 
doesnt make a difference to my overall conclusion.
Finally, Mr M said he thought our service took FCA regulations into account. And that is 
correct. In arriving at my decision, Ive taken into account relevant legislation and regulation, 
including FCA rules and guidance. But my role is to consider the individual circumstances of 
this complaint; and this services role is not to fine or punish a business for anything its done 
wrong. When I said in my provisional decision that Mr M is free to take his concerns to the FCA, I mean that he is able to contact the FCA if he has wider concerns about the way 
HSDL operates.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr M £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman