DRN-4198663
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt give her the credit card 
account she applied for. She would like the interest applied removed, and to be put on the 
correct  product.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Miss Rs frustration ; she believes she applied for a credit card that gave 
her 0% interest on purchases for 24 months . However, the account Barclays set up 
only gave her 0% interest on purchases for three months. The system notes confirm 
Miss Rs  account only offers 0% interest for three months and that is also confirmed 
by the statements Barclays issued which I have seen. So, I am persuaded that whilst 
Miss R might not have applied for the account she wanted, she did apply for the one 
she got. 
Miss R has told us that in both a phone call and in an online chat Barclays confirmed 
that she was on the wrong product. Barclays has provided us with a screen shot that 
shows it has no record of an online chat it can share with us. So, I cant reasonably 
comment on this.
Barclays has however provided a phone call Miss R made which I have listened to. 
The adviser confirmed that the account Miss R applied for only offered the 0% for 
three months on purchases. The adviser did see if it was possible to change Miss Rs 
account to the one she thought she had applied for but was unable to do so.
Barclays has accepted it wasnt able to issue a final response letter to Miss R within 
the eight-week usual timescale. Whilst this isnt ideal I dont believe the outcome of 
Miss Rs complaint would have been any different.  And of course, once Miss R 
realised the account wasnt the one she wanted she could have chosen to look for an 
alternative product rather than staying with the one she had
Its unfortunate but I think Mss R simply applied for the wrong account. But as I have 
no evidence of Barclays doing making a mistake I cant  reasonably ask  it to change 
Miss Rs account or to refund the interest applied to the account as Miss R would 
like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman