DRN-4319245
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank Plc unfairly closed his account. Hed like an apology, an 
explanation and compensation for the stress.
What happened
Mr F held accounts with TSB. In March 2022 they wrote to him to let him know theyd be 
closing his accounts in two months time. He complained to the bank, saying he was 
shocked by the decision. He said hed been with TSB for many years and felt he had been 
treated with no respect.
TSB responded to say they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said their terms 
allowed them to close an account with 60 days notice, so theyd acted in line with these. 
They did not disclose any reason for the closure.
Mr Fs accounts closed in May 2022.
Unhappy with this Mr F referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into it but didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. Mr F remained unhappy, saying he 
wanted to know the reason for the closure. He thought he may have been discriminated 
against by TSB.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, its up to banks who they want to have as consumers, just as consumers usually 
have a choice of who they bank with. Our service wouldnt generally ask a bank to change or 
justify a legitimate commercial decision if it has been made in line with the agreed terms of 
the account. 
The terms of Mr Fs TSB accounts say that they can close an account for any reason, so 
long as they provide 60 days notice. This is in line with the relevant regulations around 
payment accounts. This is generally to allow consumers time to find banking facilities 
elsewhere.
In this case I can see that the closure letter was issued over 60 days in advance of the 
account closure. I can also see that Mr F contacted TSB about the closure shortly after, 
which tells me the notice was received and understood. I can also see from his statements 
that the account was used up until it was closed  so wasnt subject to any blocks or 
restrictions that would have prevented him accessing his funds during the notice period.
Theres currently no obligation on banks to let consumers know why theyve closed an 
account, and in this case TSB have declined to discuss this further with Mr F. But our service 
can receive certain evidence in confidence, such as TSBs reasoning. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to detail this in full here. But having considered this carefully, Im satisfied 
that the reasons TSB have given are reasonable and closure is a proportionate response. 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this was down to any of Mr Fs personal 
characteristics, but rather that it was a legitimate commercial decision TSB are entitled to 
make.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr F, and I understand his desire to know more. But 
TSB havent treated him unreasonably or unfairly. As such, I cant reasonably ask them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman