DRN-1757132
The complaint
Mr H says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a credit card. The PPI was added to the
account in June 2000, years after the credit card was taken out.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr H initially told us he couldnt remember how the policy was sold to him and what 
happened at the time of sale. Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr H then 
disagreed stating that he is confident he would not have agreed to the PPI and that as 
MBNA has been found to have mis-sold PPI before, one could assume that it mis-sold 
him this policy too. 
However, each case is considered on its own merits, and in each case, we must 
consider what we think is more likely to have happened in order to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
The PPI was taken out over the phone and unfortunately there is no call recording 
available for me to listen to. But I think thats understandable considering this policy was 
taken out 20 years ago. What we have seen however, are call scripts that MBNA says its 
sales representative wouldve used around that time. These shows the sales 
representative wouldve been instructed to present the PPI as optional and obtain Mr Hs 
consent to add it to his account.
Mr H said he would have declined the PPI if he hadnt been given all the information 
about it. Ive thought about what Mr H has said, but I havent seen anything which 
supports this. And as this policy was taken out so long ago, Mr H himself has said that 
he cant remember all the details from the sale.
I have also considered that the PPI was added to the account many years after the credit 
card was taken out, so I think Mr H wouldve known the PPI was a separate and optional 
product. And without and stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its likely the PPI was 
presented as optional and Mr H chose to take it out, knowing it was something he didnt 
have to have.
MBNA didnt advise Mr H to take out the PPI so it didnt have to check if it was right for
him. But it did have to make sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, as Ive said above, I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. 
Mr H told us he wouldve got up to three months sick pay from his employer at the time. 
He also told us he had no other means of making his repayments had he been unable to 
work. The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months in addition to the sick pay he had. 
So, overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman