DRN-4185878
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with how Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd reported information to her
credit file.
What happened
In 2018, Lantern purchased an outstanding debt owed by Miss L and were told by the
originating creditor that the date of default for the debt was in May 2022, prior to the sale of
the debt to Lantern.
In 2022, Miss L contacted Lantern and complained that the account from which the debt had
originated had been in existence in January 2017, at which time shed entered into an
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). As such, Miss L felt that the date of default should
be amended by Lantern to reflect the date she entered into the IVA.
Lantern responded to Miss L and acknowledged that the last record of payment on the
account in question was in January 2017. Lantern also noted that defaults generally take
place between three to six months after the date of last payment, and so agreed to backdate
the date of default to April 2017  three months after January 2017. Miss L wasnt satisfied
with Lanterns response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
In January 2023, one of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that, as per
guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), default dates should be
consistent with IVA dates, and no later than the date of the IVA. As such, our investigator
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Miss Ls favour and that Lantern should
amend Miss Ls credit file so that the date of default was in alignment with when Miss L
entered her IVA, and that Lantern should make a payment of £100 to Miss L as
compensation for the upset and inconvenience shed incurred surrounding this matter.
Lantern accepted the recommendation put forwards by our investigator and made a payment
of £100 to Miss L. However, they didnt update the date of default on Miss Ls credit file. This
led to our investigator issuing a second view on this complaint  in April 2023  whereby
they confirmed that Lantern should amend the date of default to when Miss L entered the
IVA and said that Lantern should pay a further £150 to Miss L for not updating her credit file
in a timely manner following their initial recommendation in January 2023.
Lantern subsequently accepted this second view put forwards by our investigator. But to
date the date of default on Miss Ls credit file remains unamended. Miss L wasnt happy with
Lanterns failure to act as theyd agreed to, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 June 2023 as follows:
Lantern have accepted the view of our investigator that they should amend the date 
of default on Miss Ls credit file to match the date that she entered into her IVA. So, 
its disappointing that Lantern havent acted to amend Miss Ls credit file in this 
manner, following their agreement to do so.
It can take several weeks after a business such as Lantern has submitted a request 
to the credit reference agencies  who administer credit files  for the requested 
update to be processed by the credit reference agencies and for the change to then 
show on a persons credit file. But Lantern first agreed to update Miss Ls credit file in 
January 2023  approximately five and a half months ago  and Miss Ls credit file 
still hasnt been updated.
This doesnt feel fair to me, and Im in agreement with our investigator that Lantern 
should make a further payment of £150 to Miss L  in addition to the £100 they paid 
in January  as compensation for the ongoing upset and inconvenience Miss L has 
incurred here. And this is especially the case given that had Lantern updated the 
date of default as they should have done the default in question would now no longer 
be showing on Miss Ls credit file, given that the six-year reporting period from 
January 2017 expired in January 2023.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Miss L is incurring an ongoing detriment as a result of
Lanterns failure to act as theyve agreed to here.
And so, in addition to instructing the £150 further compensation payment as 
recommended by our investigator in their second view  and which its my 
understanding Lantern havent yet paid to Miss L  my provisional instructions here 
will also include that Lantern must take the necessary steps to amend the credit file 
reporting for Miss L.
Furthermore, if Lantern cant demonstrate by 30 June 2023 that theyve contacted 
any credit reference agencies that report the date of default incorrectly and requested 
the change of default date with them, Lantern must make a further payment of £100 
to Miss L  and must make ongoing further payments of £100 a month to Miss L for 
each month they continue to be unable to demonstrate that theyve requested the 
default date amendment as they agreed to do back in January.
It's regrettable that this complaint has reached this stage, especially as Lantern have 
agreed to take the action that would resolve it. So I hope that Lantern will appreciate 
why Ive issued the provisional instructions that I have here  which I issue with the 
intention that they will incentivise Lantern to take the action required of them to 
resolve the ongoing detriment that Miss L is incurring, and to which theyve already 
agreed, as a matter of urgency.
Lantern responded to my provisional decision and provided an email dated 5 June 2023 
from the credit reference agency that hadnt yet updated Miss Ls credit file which Im 
satisfied confirms that Lantern have requested that Miss Ls default date be amended and 
that the credit reference agency has corrected its reporting of the default date at Lanterns 
request. 
As such, Im satisfied that Lantern have met the conditional clause I included in my 
provisional decision  that they must make payments to Miss L of £100 per month for every 
month moving forwards that Lantern cant evidence that theyve requested the default date 
to be amended with the credit reference agencies  such that the clause no longer applies.
However, it remains my position that Lantern must pay a further £150 to Miss L  in addition 
to the £100 they previously paid  as compensation for the ongoing trouble and upset Miss L has incurred here. And so, my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint in Miss Ls 
favour on that basis.
As explained in my provisional decision letter, it can take several weeks for amendments on 
a credit file to show on the public reporting of that credit file. As such, given that it seems that 
Miss Ls credit file may have been amended relatively recently, around 5 June 2023, I ask 
that she keep this fact in mind when checking her credit file over the next few months. 
Should Miss L still be unhappy with her credit file reporting after eight weeks, she may need 
to take this matter up with the credit reference agency in question directly. 
Putting things right
Lantern must make a further payment of £150 to Miss L, if they havent already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd 
on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman