DRN-2720394
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Ageas Insurance Limited managed his motor 
insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr M sourced a policy from Ageas via a price comparison website. Mr Ms car was damaged 
in an accident and Ageas deemed it to be a total loss. In line with his policys terms, Ageas 
settled his claim by paying him what it said the market value of the car was, £11,800. 
Mr M didn't think that was fair. He said that when applying for the policy, because of the 
condition of the car, rather than using the online valuation for it, he increased that amount 
and Ageas charged him a higher premium as a result. So he didn't think it was fair that 
Ageas would limit its claim settlement to the cars market value, when Ageas had been 
charging him a higher premium because the car was worth more than that.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He said Mr M 
hadn't provided supporting evidence that Ageas had charged him an increased premium 
because he altered the cars value when he took out the policy. But he thought Ageas should 
increase the market value of the car to £11,907. So he said Ageas should pay Mr M a further 
£107 and add simple interest to that sum. 
Ageas agreed with our investigator's recommendation but Mr M didn't, so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so Im going to partly uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same 
as our investigators recommendation.
Im aware Mr M  wanted to provide further evidence which hes been waiting for from the 
price comparison site he used to source the policy. But Mr M has been seeking that 
evidence since October 2020. And some six months has passed since then. I think thats 
enough time to provide additional evidence. Also, I dont think the evidence Mr M is looking 
for would persuade me that Ageas has acted unfairly.
Thats because Mr M believed the evidence from the comparison site will show that Ageas 
increased his premium when he change the value of his car when applying for the policy. But 
Ageas has told us that the evidence it holds shows Mr M only ever gave it one valuation for 
the car. So it doesn't believe it increased Mr Ms premium because he changed its value. 
Also, Mr M applied for the policy on whats known as a non-advised basis. That means 
Ageas didn't make any policy recommendation and instead simply gave a quote based on 
the information Mr M supplied. And the policy Mr M bought said that, if his car was a total 
loss, Ageas would pay him its market value, and thats what Ageas did. So I don't think 
Ageas unfairly increased the premium for Mr Ms car. And I think it was reasonable that, in 
line with the policy terms, Ageas settled his claim for the cars market value.
That said, when looking into Ageas valuation, our investigator noted it had only used three 
of four trade guides we recommend to value Mr Ms car. But if Ageas had used valuations 
from all four guides we recommend, that would have produced a higher valuation. And, 
when our investigator put this to Ageas, it agreed to pay the difference between the 
valuations. I think that's fair in the circumstances. It follows that I think its fair and 
reasonable for Ageas to pay Mr M an additional £107 for the value of his car and add simple 
interest to that payment as set out below.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to: pay Mr M a further £107 for the market value of his car. It should add simple 
interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date it initially offered to settle the 
claim until the date it makes payment1.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.