DRN-2421452
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his home insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal 
and General, because it declined a claim he made for storm damage to his roof and loft 
rooms. 
What happened
In the early hours of the morning on 15 January 2020 Mr B was woken with a loud crash. It 
transpired that the felt covering for the flat roof of his loft extension had been ripped off. It 
landed in a neighbours garden and rain poured into the bedroom and bathroom.
Mr B called Fairmead, it noted winds of 46mph and agreed to send a loss adjuster to view 
the damage. Mr B paid £350 for some temporary repairs to be done in the meantime. The 
loss adjuster reviewed a different set of weather records and found winds of only 38mph at 
the closest weather station. The loss adjuster viewed the loft extension from the ground and 
saw some photos Mr Bs contractor had taken whilst carrying out some temporary repairs. 
The adjuster noted the suspected age of the roof and concluded it may have reached the 
end of its life  with age related cracking allowing the wind to get underneath the felt and rip 
it off. 
 
Fairmead then declined the claim in its entirety, both for external and internal damage. It said 
no other homes in the area had suffered similar damage and a one-off storm event had not 
occurred to cause damage to Mr Bs home. It noted the photos taken by the loss adjuster 
and said that the cracking to the leading edge of the roof meant it had been damaged 
overtime due to wear and tear. Mr B complained to us.
Our investigator asked Fairmead to show any evidence it had that the roof was/had been 
suffering from wear. He said the photos provided to date showed no damage to the leading 
edge of the roof, no sign of on-going water damage to the wood (which remained) and that 
the internal damage did not appear to have occurred over a long time. Fairmead provided 
further comment from its loss adjuster but nothing else. Our investigator felt Fairmead hadnt 
shown that its view (namely that this damage was not the result of a one-off event covered 
by the policy) was reasonable. He said it should reconsider the claim and pay £100 
compensation.
Mr B didnt object to the findings. Fairmead said it was up to the policyholder to show theyd 
suffered damage covered by the policy and it didnt think Mr B had done this. It said it was 
reasonable for it to rely on the view of its adjuster that the roof had been suffering from wear 
and tear. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that this damage took place during a named storm event. And Fairmead initially 
accepted that, on the face of it, storm damage had occurred. It noted windspeeds of 46mph 
and considered that the speeds in the area of Mr Bs home might well have exceeded that. 
Ive seen the details of the weather from that time and its clear to me the speeds recorded at 
various sites in the vicinity of Mr Bs home did fluctuate. I think it was reasonable of 
Fairmead to accept that there had likely been a storm. I dont think it would be reasonable to 
say that just because one station, used by one data site, showed windspeeds lower than 
what would be considered to be a storm, the claim should fail.
As Im satisfied a storm even occurred on or around the time the damage was discovered, 
I then need to think about whether this damage is typical of storm damage. Im mindful that, 
often, flat roofs dont suffer in this way due to a storm  but I think violent gusts of the type 
which can occur during named storms could have more of an effect on a building than the 
less violent storms more common in this country. Im also mindful that, here, we do have 
quite a lot of evidence about the state of the property underneath the roof. So Ive 
considered then whether the storm was likely the dominant cause of the damage  or if, as 
Fairmead claims, the roof was likely suffering from wear and tear over the long-term which 
the conditions in January 2020 merely highlighted. 
Fairmead says its loss adjuster viewed the remaining and leading edge of the flat felt roof 
from the ground with binoculars and found it was cracked  typically a sign of aging. But the 
adjuster in its report suggests only that this is likely to have happened due to the roofs age. 
The adjuster did not say this type of damage was seen. And theres no photos which show 
this cracking. Fairmead said there was evidence of on-going water ingress into the property. 
Again this would be a sign that the roof had deteriorated overtime, rather than being 
damaged purely by the storm. But photos of the ply-boarding dont show rot or dampness. 
And the internal photos of the rooms dont show signs of damp or mould, or any damage Id 
usually associate with water having got in over a long period of time.
For me the state of the ply is key. Often in complaints I see that involve alleged storm 
damage to flat roofs, only part of the roof felt has been ripped off but usually the timber 
below shows signs of long-term exposure to moisture. Theres also usually evidence of 
cracking and/or patch repairs elsewhere on the roof and staining to timber in other areas 
once the remaining felt has been removed. The photos the loss adjuster saw and recorded 
in their report (taken previously by Mr Bs contractor) dont suggest that the ply was in poor 
condition such that Id think it had been being affected by moisture for a pro-longed period. 
Im not persuaded that this was likely an aged, cracked roof imminently fated to fail 
regardless of storm conditions having been present. 
I can see this was frustrating for Mr B. He spent money on temporary repairs on Fairmeads 
advice, only to be told it wouldnt reimburse them as it was declining his claim. It could have 
given him better advice at that time. Hes also lived with the damaged property since. Im 
satisfied that compensation is due.
Putting things right
I require Fairmead to re-consider this claim, including the temporary repairs Mr B completed, 
under the remaining terms of the policy.
I require Fairmead to pay Mr B £100 compensation.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
to provide the redress set put in putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman