DRN-2143480
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has decided the water entering his garage 
isnt caused by an insured event. He wants UKI to carry out further investigations. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Its accepted water enters Mr Js garage after prolonged heavy rainfall, but how this 
happens is unknown. 
UKI appointed a drain specialist to test the storm and foul water drains at the 
property and to decide if there is any likely issue with those drains which may explain 
the presence of the water.
The results from that investigation concluded there is no escape of water from the 
systems and that they are free flowing and serviceable. Mr J doesnt think the tests 
undertaken were sufficient, as water only appears after heavy rainfall and he feels a 
CCTV survey of the drains should be undertaken. However, I find the evidence of the 
drain specialists more persuasive here as they are experts in their field. And, theyve 
concluded there isnt need for a CCTV survey based on their findings.
UKI has said as the cause of the water ingress hasnt been shown to be related to an 
insured peril under the policy, it wont undertake any further work at Mr Js property. It 
has suggested Mr J may want to consider appointing a leak specialist. And, it would 
be happy to reconsider the matter, if he provides further evidence the water ingress 
is related to an insured event. 
I think UKI has acted reasonably here, it has appointed a drain specialist and is 
entitled to rely on the opinion given. It would be for Mr J to show an insured event 
has occurred which UKI should provide cover for. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman