DRN-3733009
The complaint
Mrs L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has declined to refund her for payments 
she made by bank transfer when she fell victim to an investment scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for her losses because Mrs L unwittingly authorised the payments 
 and it could not reasonably have prevented what happened.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here and focus on what I consider is significant to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here. But in reviewing Mrs Ls complaint, I have 
carefully reviewed the detailed submissions made by both sides to this dispute. 
Mrs L holds a number of accounts with HSBC. During the course of this investment scam, 
Mrs L sent money from her account with another bank, as well as from her HSBC accounts. 
The details of the scam itself remained the same and are detailed below. Due to the 
overlapping nature of the payments and the scam itself there will of necessity be some 
repetition in what follows. However, in what follows I have considered what happened in so 
far as it relates to Mrs Ls complaint about HSBC.
In August 2020, she saw an online video purporting to show several famous individuals 
endorsing cryptocurrency investment as a way of making money. Mrs L says she later 
followed a link to a company that offered to assist with such investments (which I will refer to 
as R).
Mrs L registered with R on its website and was called by a representative. She was told they 
were expecting cryptocurrency investments to generate significant returns. Specifically, R 
told Mrs L they expected to nearly double any money invested over the course of the next 
four months. At the time, cryptoasset values were rising extremely rapidly and this was being 
widely reported in the mainstream media.
Mrs L says that what she was told by R fitted with her goals - she wanted to achieve a large 
increase in her savings over a short time. Mrs L explains that this wasnt driven by personal 
greed, but rather by a desire to help her son financially, including assisting him in purchasing 
a property.
Mrs L was assisted by R in setting up accounts with legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
firms (which I will refer to here as B, C and K). These new accounts were set up in her own 
name. Money was to be sent by Mrs L to these new accounts before being converted to 
cryptocurrency and then moved from the exchange to R (purportedly to an account in 
Mrs Ls name on Rs trading platform  although it now seems that was not genuine). 
She was in regular communication with R and was given access to its trading platform. This 
was sophisticated in appearance, supposedly showing the performance of Mrs Ls 
investments and allowing her to make what she believed were trades in different assets.
Mrs L says R told her to mislead her banks about what she was doing if they asked her. This 
was apparently to avoid delays in payments being sent. In particular, it appears she was told 
not to mention R or say that anyone was helping her with the investments.
She made an initial payment from her HSBC account to her newly created account with K at 
the end of August. A small return was credited to her around one week later (received into 
her HSBC account). Mrs L proceeded to make multiple further payments including payments 
to C, from which Mrs L received a credit on 21 September (again into her HSBC account but 
this time for a larger sum).
However, despite these credits received from C and K, Mrs L had already paid out 
significantly more than she had received back.
Over the course of the following months Mrs L transferred multiple further payments from her 
HSBC accounts to C and K. She made further payments from her account held with another 
bank to her account with K (as well as to B, a third exchange). The final payments Mrs L 
transferred from HSBC (and from the other bank) were made on 14 December 2020. In total, 
by this point, Mrs L had sent a net sum in excess of £700,000 from her HSBC accounts.
Having encountered problems when trying to withdraw her money, then a supposed sudden 
crash in the value of her trades taking her investment balance to less than zero, Mrs L 
concluded that R was not a legitimate company and that the investments had been a scam. 
She later reported the matter to HSBC, in early 2021.
HSBC was unable to recover the money Mrs L had sent. It had already been moved into 
cryptocurrency from her accounts with C and K - as part of the scam. 
HSBC said that because Mrs L had been transferring the money to her own accounts with C 
and K, any losses had happened only when shed sent the funds onward from C and K  
and not at the point of the initial transfers from HSBC. That meant HSBC shouldnt be liable 
for the money Mrs L had lost. It directed her to raise the matter with C and K.
Mrs L didnt accept this. She has since said that HSBC hadnt done enough to protect her. In 
very brief summary, she said if HSBC had given her a clear warning or questioned her more 
thoroughly when she was sending the payments this would have caused her to pause and 
look more closely into R before proceeding.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think HSBC had treated Mrs L unfairly 
and didnt think it was liable to reimburse her for her losses. The Investigator noted that C 
and K are legitimate cryptocurrency exchange providers. The Investigator explained that 
because Mrs L was transferring money from her HSBC accounts to accounts held in her own 
name with C and K, the APP scam reimbursement code (the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code or CRM Code) wouldnt apply. 
He referenced calls Mrs L had with both HSBC and her other bank. During these calls Mrs L 
hadnt answered honestly when shed been asked what was happening, and as a result the 
scam hadnt been uncovered. Mrs L had seemingly been determined to make these 
payments, to the extent of deliberately deceiving her banks  and she had done so over a 
sustained period. So, he didnt think a specific warning or stronger intervention by HSBC 
would likely have made any difference, and that Mrs L would have still lost this money. 
Mrs L didnt accept our Investigators view, so I have been asked to make a final decision on 
her complaint.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. And in reaching my findings, Ive carefully considered the evidence provided by the 
parties to the linked complaints brought by Mrs L, including the detailed and comprehensive 
response to the Investigators opinion that was submitted by Mrs L (with the assistance of 
her representative). I am satisfied I am in a position to fairly decide the outcome of Mrs Ls 
complaint about HSBC based on the information and arguments already available to me.
I will address what I think is the heart of the matter here, that being: 
- Is it reasonable to expect HSBC to have recognised these payments as being 
suspicious, and should it have intervened?
- If so, did HSBC intervene at the appropriate point?
- If HSBC had taken reasonable steps in making such an intervention, would that have 
likely resulted in the scam being identified and prevented at the time?
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs L. I can understand entirely why 
she feels so strongly that her money should be returned, and why she doesnt accept that 
HSBC shouldnt be responsible for refunding her for the portion of her losses that originated 
from her HSBC accounts.
Its important I clearly acknowledge that Mrs L has been the victim of a crime here. She has 
detailed how she was cruelly deceived by a scam that led her to believe she was investing 
her money and had the prospect of making substantial returns. Between the money Mrs L 
sent from her HSBC accounts and that she sent from her account held with another bank, 
shes lost a huge sum due to this scam.
However, the principal cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mrs L. It 
does not necessarily follow that HSBC should bear liability for the money she lost.  
This was an APP scam and its worth mentioning at this point that a voluntary code exists to 
provide additional protection against APP scams (the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code  CRM Code). HSBC is a signatory to this code. But as the Investigator explained, it 
only applies to payments made directly to another person. Bank transfers made to an 
account in the victims own name fall outside the CRM Codes definition of scams within its 
scope. 
That matters because the accounts to which Mrs L initially sent money from her HSBC 
accounts were wallet accounts registered in her own name at two cryptocurrency 
exchanges. As a result, the CRM Code provisions arent relevant to Mrs Ls complaint.
However, while I find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full extent of 
the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. 
First of all, under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an elaborate investment scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank should take 
reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice HSBC should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that HBSC did enough given the specific circumstances here. 
At the outset, Ive also considered whether any liability could arise for HSBC in relation to 
payments made by Mrs L to accounts held in her own name. 
HSBC argues that the losses ultimately occurred when the funds were moved from the 
accounts Mrs L holds with other firms to purchase cryptocurrency. It says any liability to Mrs 
L should rest with those firms given that is the point where the loss actually occurred. 
While Mrs L argues that R had access to these accounts with C and K, the funds ostensibly 
remained under her control at the point they were received in the accounts. So, the loss 
didnt occur, at least, until the later transfer out of the account with C and K, and its receipt 
(presumably by R).
I do not have the power to consider a complaint about C or K (or indeed about R). Of course, 
the fact that I only have the power to consider the complaint made about HSBC and not the 
other parties involved here does not mean I must necessarily find that it is HSBC which 
should bear liability for Mrs Ls losses. 
I have nonetheless given careful consideration to whether HSBC could and should bear 
some responsibility for the eventual loss. As noted above, I consider there are 
circumstances where Id expect HSBC to have gone beyond its initial obligation to make 
each payment in line with Mrs Ls instructions. If it was at fault in this, I consider that I could 
fairly and reasonably find it responsible for any resultant losses that would otherwise have 
been prevented.
That being said, I must also take into account the extent of intervention that could 
reasonably be expected (given the relevant considerations I have outlined above) of a bank 
such as HSBC in relation to an authorised transfer whether sent by the CHAPS mechanism 
or by the Faster Payments system.
Ive noted that at various points HSBC has referred to Mrs L holding a specific type of 
account, a Jade account. HSBC describes this is as an account for high net worth 
customers, with the implication that Mrs L may be a more sophisticated investor. Mrs L 
disputes this. In what follows, I dont consider this point of dispute to be relevant. The 
outcome I have reached would remain the same whether the account is indeed a high net 
worth account or not, and for the same reasons.
Mrs L was making a sequence of large payments to a new payee. HSBC pended a payment 
instruction given by Mrs L on 9 September 2020. It appears this was the second payment 
she had sent from HSBC to her account with K. HSBC did not process the payment until it had been able to speak to Mrs L. 
In doing so, HSBC was undoubtably taking steps to ensure that the payment had valid 
authorisation from Mrs L as the account holder. Arguably, delaying the execution of this 
instruction could also have been intended to allow the bank to reassure itself that the 
payment wasnt likely to result in financial harm to Mrs L through fraud or scam. I consider 
HSBC ought to have been intervening on that latter basis, as well as to ensure proper 
authorisation had been obtained. On balance, I think HSBC was right to have concerns at 
the point of this payment, and to have made that intervention.
In total, on 9 September 2020, Mrs L spoke to a number of different staff members about this 
payment and about a second payment that same day. But the calls did not bring the scam to 
light. 
During these calls with HSBC, Mrs L was asked about the purpose of the payment, which 
she said was to invest in Bitcoin. She confirmed shed checked she was making a genuine 
investment, that the payment was going to a UK destination, volunteered to provide the UK 
postal address, and said that the firm she was sending payment to (K) is a large global 
organisation  with the implication being that she had no concerns. 
Mrs L confirmed she was the one making the payments and wasnt being forced or coerced 
into doing so. She said shed done her own research and was well informed about the risks 
associated with this form of investment. She did not mention any involvement by another 
party (such as R), or that she was being assisted in these investments. To my mind, Mrs L 
generally sounded confident and showed no obvious signs of distress. She merely seems 
slightly frustrated by the difficulty of convincing HSBC to send each payment and to do so 
with the correct reference numbers.
Arguably, at this point HSBC could have considered it was entitled to proceed with the 
payment it was being requested to make. It only needed to be reassured that the payment 
was correctly authorised, and not likely to result in financial harm to Mrs L through fraud or 
scam. With the considerations that Ive outlined above in mind, HSBC was under no 
obligation to conduct an unsolicited investigation into such things as the soundness of the 
investment or whether the investment was suitable or even appropriate for Mrs L. I cannot 
reasonably expect it to have taken such steps.
However, I think that by 2020 (and somewhat earlier) the increasing prevalence of payment 
scams involving supposed cryptocurrency investments meant that HSBC should have 
questioned further to ensure Mrs L wasnt the subject of such an investment scam.
But even had it pressed slightly further in questioning Mrs L, as I think it ought to have, 
regrettably I still dont think the scam would have come to light at the time. I say this having 
taken into account the calls Mrs L had with her other bank (on her linked complaint about 
that other bank). 
Mrs L has since explained that shed been encouraged by R to deliberately deceive her 
banks about what was happening. That led her, when she was asked outright by the other 
bank, to deny being given any assistance in making the investment. She insisted she was 
making these payments herself, and of her own volition. 
Despite what I consider was an appropriate level of questioning, no mention was made of R 
or the assistance shed received in creating or operating the accounts with B, C and K. 
Rather, Mrs L led the bank to believe she was acting wholly independently. If she had said 
she was being assisted, that would have been a red-flag for either bank that all might not be 
right, but Mrs L had unwittingly hindered the efforts of her banks to protect her.Furthermore, the other bank specifically warned Mrs L about a scenario resembling almost 
exactly the scam that was occurring, including what such a scam might seem like from the 
victims perspective. Yet Mrs L was insistent on proceeding  saying she was aware of that 
type of scam and was happy that she had checked everything. Since her initial payments 
shed confirmed been able to withdraw small sums of money in returns. Mrs L consistently 
and confidently maintained this story through a number of calls, with different bank staff 
members across different dates. 
Mrs L has explained why she said what she did. I consider it likely shed have said the same 
to HSBC had it pursued the same questioning. She had been tricked by R into believing that 
revealing the truth to either HSBC or her other bank would simply lead to problems and 
delays in making payments. It seems she was motivated by the returns on offer to avoid any 
such delays. Unfortunately, this, combined with the confidence and consistency with which 
Mrs L was able to deliver this story during not just one, but repeated calls, had the result that 
this scam did not come to light until much later.
Of course, a bank such as HSBC is aware that the nature of some scams (such as this one) 
involves a customer being tricked into believing they need to deceive their bank. That has 
been something recognised and incorporated into good industry practice on scam prevention 
for many years. However, there are limits to which it is reasonable to expect a bank to 
challenge an instruction legitimately given by its customer and with a seemingly legitimate 
explanation as to the purpose and where there are no other clear indications that all might 
not be right.
Here, despite several further calls between HSBC and Mrs L, her confidence in what she 
was doing and her description of the nature of the payments was maintained. The reality 
remained hidden from HSBC, as it did from the other bank. 
All considered here, I dont think HSBC reasonably could have uncovered the true situation 
even had it pressed Mrs L further before permitting this (and subsequent) payments. The 
connection to F remained hidden. On balance, Ive seen nothing to indicate that HSBC 
identified that Mrs L was falling victim to a scam in making these payments. Nor do I find that 
it could reasonably have uncovered this at the time, given Mrs Ls consistently maintained 
(while inadvertent) efforts to deceive it.
Mrs L says that she thought her banks - particularly HSBC - were merely performing a 
routine duty in their attempts to protect her. She argues that had HSBC or the other bank 
pointed to specific scam cases this could have made a difference. She says that if either 
bank had put her under stronger pressure, she might have might have revealed the 
involvement of F and this could have uncovered the scam. On the contrary she says she 
took comfort from the limited pressure and questioning.
I understand the points Mrs L has raised in her response to our Investigators assessment of 
the matter. But I must also recognise that a bank such as HSBC must strike a balance 
between the need to protect its customer from fraud and scams, and the need to comply with 
its primary obligation to carry out the legitimately authorised payment instruction its customer 
has given it. Having listened to the calls and interactions Mrs L had with HSBC, and based 
on what happened in the calls with the other bank, I simply dont think that a reasonable 
level of questioning would have led to a different result here.
Further, I dont think that the provision of a detailed and specific scam warning by HSBC 
would likely have prevented the eventual losses from occurring. Mrs Ls other bank provided 
what I consider was a clear and specific warning and that had no effect on preventing Mrs L 
from proceeding. I dont find it likely anything would have been different had HSBC done the 
same. Therefore, while I think HSBC ought, arguably, to have intervened to a greater extent than it 
did, I dont find it could reasonably have prevented this scam and Mrs Ls ultimate losses. 
When the scam came to light, I am satisfied that HSBC acted appropriately, but it could not 
recover the funds, given theyd already been moved into cryptocurrency from Mrs Ls 
accounts held with C and K.
In closing Id like to reiterate that I am extremely sorry to hear about the losses Mrs L 
suffered as a result of this elaborate scam. Everything I have seen indicates that she is the 
innocent victim here and has been left with a considerable loss by a sophisticated deception.
But having considered everything, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have prevented 
these losses. And for the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the CRM Code does not 
apply here. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that HSBC should, 
fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman