DRN-3197581
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy HSBC UK Bank PLC debited £2,000 from her bank account without 
authorisation. Ms W also complains she had to contact the business several times in order to 
resolve the issue and that timescales set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) were 
not adhered to.
What happened
Ms W says she contacted HSBC on 4 May 2021 to put a stop on a cheque for £2,000 from 
her bank account. Ms W says a few days later she noticed £2,000 had been debited from 
her account so she contacted HSBC to find out why this had happened, and without her 
authorisation.
Ms W says she contacted HSBC a total of 12 times in order to try to ascertain why there was 
a debit on her account. Despite spending long periods of time on the phone with HSBC, and 
being promised call backs from managers, Ms W says she was not provided with an 
explanation as to how it had happened. 
Ms W says she eventually spoke to someone who was able to assist her and the money was 
credited to her account on 14 May 2021. Ms W wasnt happy it had taken that amount of 
time to understand why the money had been debited in the first place, and for the money to 
be returned to her. So she complained to HSBC. 
HSBC said when Ms W contacted it on 4 May 2021 to put a stop on a cheque the operative 
incorrectly input a £2,000 charge on the account. HSBC says £2,000 was returned to the 
account on 14 May 2021. HSBC apologised for the error and paid Ms W £50 to apologise for 
the service she received. 
Ms W contacted HSBC again in June 2021 regarding her concerns with £2,000 being 
debited from her account. HSBC explained when the operative was processing Ms Ws 
request to stop the cheque, instead of entering no charge he incorrectly entered the amount 
of the cheque he was stopping, and so the amount was debited from Ms Ws account in 
error. It said the operatives manager would provide feedback to him and put measures in 
place to prevent the issue from happening again. 
HSBC went on to explain when a service fee is input manually, as happened here, it doesnt 
require authorisation from the customer as these are normally services which form part of 
the terms of the account. HSBC acknowledged the service provided to Ms W was not 
acceptable and offered her an additional £100 compensation. 
Ms W says she wasnt satisfied with the response received from HSBC and so she emailed 
again reiterating her concerns. HSBC responded acknowledging the issues raised by Ms W. 
It said feedback had been provided to the operative who made the error and said further 
training would be provided. HSBC also said it carries out a number of checks each month on 
all of its operatives which helps to identify any mistakes. 
Ms W was not happy with the response received from HSBC. Ms W says she doesnt want 
compensation, she wants assurances systems are in place to ensure this wont happen 
again.  So she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms W. She agreed HSBC had made an error when 
placing a stop on the cheque. But she said HSBC had taken steps to correct the mistake; by 
crediting Ms Ws account, apologising for the error, and offering compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience the situation had caused. Since the resolution was in line with what the 
investigator would have recommended she said she wouldnt ask HSBC to do anything 
more. The investigator also explained our service was not able to recommend changes to 
HSBCs policies and procedures since this was outside of the remit of our role.
Ms W contacted the investigator to confirm she didnt accept her view. Ms W said the money 
was only returned to her account on 14 May because she had made 12 telephone calls to 
HSBC. Ms W also said HSBC had failed to adhere to the timescales set out by Financial 
Conduct Authority; that funds are returned within one day. 
Since Ms W didnt agree with our investigators view the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that a mistake was made when the cheque was being cancelled on Ms Ws 
request. So the issue I need to decide in this decision is what should be done by HSBC to 
put things right considering all of the circumstances. 
I recognise a lot happened in a short space of time here, with there being numerous 
telephone conversations between Ms W and HSBC. HSBC recognise that Ms W didnt 
receive the best service during some of these calls which didnt help the matter. 
£2,000 debited without authorisation
HSBC have explained the error in debiting the account was due to an operative mistakenly 
inputting the cheque value rather than no charge which meant Ms Ws account was 
charged and debited instead of the cheque being cancelled. HSBC have acknowledged the 
mistake and taken steps to try to resolve the matter. And so while I can see Ms W is not 
satisfied with the response received I think HSBC have done what I would have expected it 
to in order to correct the error.
Numerous calls to resolve issue 
I have seen a copy of Ms Ws itemised telephone bill which shows she made at least 12 calls 
to HSBC in order to try and find out why £2,000 had been debited from her account. Some of 
those calls lasted an hour and Ms W says she didnt receive call backs as she was 
promised. HSBC dont dispute this and have apologised for the inconvenience caused and 
for the failure in service Ms W experienced. As a gesture of goodwill HSBC paid Ms W £50 
to reflect this and offered a further £100 for costs and additional distress and inconvenience. 
I think this is appropriate to recognise the inconvenience caused to Ms W by this situation.  
FCA timescales 
Ms W has specifically raised the issue of HSBC being obligated to return unauthorised funds 
within one day. In this case it took HSBC until 14 May to return the funds which, as Ms W correctly points out, was due to her insistence in obtaining an explanation for the debited 
amount and the numerous telephone calls she made to the bank. 
I can understand why Ms W refers to the transaction as an unauthorised payment. However 
it is not something that is ordinarily understood to be an unauthorised transaction for the 
purposes of the FCA guidelines, which more commonly refer to unauthorised payments to 
third parties. To be clear, Im not saying Ms W authorised the payment to be debited from 
her account. I accept it is not something she gave HSBC advanced consent for. It was a 
bank charge made erroneously by human error. 
I agree that mistakes have been made here but overall I think HSBC has done enough to 
acknowledge the impact of its mistake and put things right. 
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay a further £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank PLC should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman