DRN-4477148
The complaint
Mr T complains that Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (HGS) declined his claim under his 
furniture insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T noticed that one of the seat cushions on his sofa had dropped, so he claimed under his 
furniture insurance policy, underwritten by HGS. HGS appointed a technician who reported 
that the damage was wear and tear from normal use. HGS declined Mr Ts claim.
Mr T complained to HGS. He said the side of the sofa which had dropped was the least used 
part, and the other side, which experienced frequent use, was in much better conditions. 
Therefore, Mr T didnt think HGSs technician had reached a fair conclusion.
HGS explained why it had relied on the technicians report, but Mr T didnt think it was an 
independent assessment. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He thought that HGS had reasonably relied 
on the report prepared by the professional. And the report concluded that the seat cushions 
werent damaged, and the damage was likely caused by repeatedly sitting on the edge of the 
sofa. 
Mr T didnt agree and he provided further comments about the situation. So the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly, and they mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably. My role here is to decide whether HGS declined Mr Ts claim fairly and in line 
with the policy for the reasons it gave.
The first responsibility in a claim is for the policyholder to show that they suffered a loss 
covered by their policy. Mr T said his seat cushion dropped due to a structural fault. Looking 
at the photos, I note that the sofa drops slightly on one side, so I can see why he made the 
claim.
Mr T said the damaged side is not used as much as the undamaged side, which implies a 
structural fault. I have no reason to doubt the pattern of usage he describes.
So, for HGS to decline the claim, it must show that a policy exclusion applies. Its appointed 
technician inspected the sofa, and provided a report, including photos. The photos show the 
interior foam, which the technician describes as intact, and holding its shape with no 
evidence of structural damage. Having looked at the photos, the assessment reflects what 
the images show.
The technician then reports that the cushion appears to have worn in a manner typical of 
someone sitting on the edge of the seat. I also note that a possible reason for this is given  
the layout of the room lends itself to sitting on that edge to interact more easily with other 
members of the family. Again, the photos support these conclusions.  
Based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that HGS relied on the expert opinion that the 
damage was due to wear and tear.
Turning to the policy, it states that wear and tear isnt covered. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
HGS declined Mr Ts claim in line with the policy. 
Looking at the overall circumstances, Ive thought about whether it was fair for HGS to 
decline the claim. While Mr T said that side of the sofa is used less often, I think HGSs 
conclusion about how that seat was used is, more likely than not, the cause of the damage. I 
havent seen any evidence to contradict the expert report.
Mr T thinks HGS should arrange a truly independent assessment of the damage to prove the 
validity of his claim. But HGS has provided a report which offers a reasonable explanation 
for the damage, so its not responsible for seeking, or paying for, further assessments to 
prove Mr Ts claim. Thats something he must do if he remains unhappy with the outcome. I 
understand Mr T is unhappy about having to pay for a report, but I cant reasonably say HGS 
should pay for a second report. 
Overall, based on the evidence, Im satisfied that HGS declined Mr Ts claim under the policy 
exclusion for wear and tear fairly, and reasonably in all the circumstances. I see no reason to 
ask HGS to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman