DRN-2642307
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C bought a regular premium MPPI policy in December 1997 alongside a 
mortgage in a meeting in one of Lloyds branches. The policy covered Mr C and Mrs C 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr C and Mrs C say Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy to them. They say they never knew 
they had MPPI. They say this is proven by the fact they didnt make a claim when Mr C was 
out of work for 3 months. They also add that Lloyds put the wrong occupation down for Mr C.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. As Mr C and Mrs C dont agree 
with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Mrs Cs case.
First of all, I have looked into the issue of Mr Cs employment as Mr C and Mrs C have said 
Lloyds recorded down the wrong occupation for him. They have provided evidence to show 
where he worked at the time of sale. I can see on the mortgage application form that the 
same employer from this evidence provided was written down on the form but also a 
different occupation to what Mr C and Mrs C have stated. In any case, I will proceed with 
what Mr C and Mrs C have told me Mr Cs occupation was when I consider his 
circumstances at the time of sale. 
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint because of the following reasons:
I looked at whether Mr C and Mrs C were given a choice to have the policy as they 
have said they never knew they had the MPPI policy. I looked at the sales 
documentation provided and considered Mr C and Mrs Cs recollections to help me 
understand what more likely happened at the time of sale. Lloyds has provided an 
application form from the sale.
From complaints that I have looked into about Lloyds, Im not aware of any known 
issues with the way it sold these policies around this time. And due to the amount of 
years that have passed since the sale, I have not been able to obtain a detailed 
recollection of the sale either. The application form does show a tick in a box within 
the MPPI section. So, with all of this in mind, I think it is more likely Lloyds gave Mr C 
and Mrs C a choice to have MPPI and they agreed to it by signing the mortgage 
application form. 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr C and Mrs C and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr C and Mrs C, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr C and Mrs Cs needs. 
After reviewing all that has been provided by the parties, it doesnt look as if the 
MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mr C and Mrs C based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mr C and Mrs C say they had sick pay (both of them had 6 
months full pay followed by 6 months half pay) and also investments worth at least 
£18,000 but the policy would also have paid in addition to any provisions they would 
have had. So, the benefit would have been of use to Mr C and Mrs C during a difficult 
time as they could have used their sick pay to pay for other expenses. I think, on 
balance, when I consider the benefit provided by the policy, they had a need for this 
cover for any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any 
other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy 
unsuitable for them.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mr C and Mrs C took out but even though it has provided information detailing how 
much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr C and Mrs C in a 
clear and fair way in the meeting. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I 
dont think Mr C and Mrs C would have done anything different and decided against 
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable. Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr C and Mrs C wouldve been affected by any of these.
Finally, Mr C and Mrs C say Mr C was out of work for 3 months but didnt claim benefit. Mr C 
may wish to approach the insurer again to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider 
a retrospective claim. If he does pursue a retrospective claim and finds that he has concerns 
in this regard, then he should first express those concerns to the insurer, and if unable to 
reach a satisfactory conclusion, they may be able to bring a complaint relating to the 
retrospective claim to this service as a separate matter.
In conclusion, although I know it will be a disappointment to Mr C and Mrs C, I dont uphold 
their complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman