DRN-3821128
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) is 
incorrectly calculating the value of the benefits he would have had if he had contributed to 
his employers defined benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme. He says this is causing 
a financial loss.  
What happened
Our Investigator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr D disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ds complaint should be not upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr D was given advice to contribute to a personal pension rather than join his employers DB 
scheme. This advice was given by a third party. The advice was reviewed under the industrywide 
personal pension review and found to be unsuitable for Mr D. I understand the review found that 
he should have been advised to contribute to his employers DB scheme rather than start a 
personal pension. 
To compensate Mr D for this he was given a guarantee in respect of his future pension benefits. 
This guarantee says that the business would (amongst other things): ensure that the transfer 
value payable will be at least as great as that which would have been payable from the employers 
scheme. And the guarantee also says that it will ensure that you are not disadvantaged as a 
result of leaving or not joining the pension scheme relating to your employment. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Royal London is now responsible for the personal pension that was 
started. And it has taken on this guarantee and intends to adhere to the terms of it. 
In August 2020, as he was nearing age 54, Mr D started to think about his retirement. He received 
standard pension projections from Royal London and some information about the pension 
guarantee. Very briefly, the information he received at this time was that the DB scheme would 
have provided a transfer value of £100,133.08 and a pension of £6,229. 
Mr D complained about this information in August 2021. He said that he thought the amounts 
above were incorrect because Royal London had not calculated the pension, and other benefits he 
would have received had he remained in the DB scheme, correctly. 
Royal London didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In its letter of 8 November 2021, it said that it was in 
contact with the DB schemes administrators to ensure it was calculating the potential benefits 
form the DB scheme correctly. It provided some information about how the calculations were 
performed and it also said that as the Benefit Guarantee only applies at retirement it wouldnt 
perform full calculations until this time. 
Mr D didnt agree and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators considered it but didnt think that Royal London had performed the potential DB 
benefit calculations incorrectly or provided an unreasonable explanation of how it was performing 
these. 
On 21 November 2022 Mr D responded in detail to our investigators opinion. I have read all of 
what he said in this letter. However, he also provided a second response on 31 March 2023 which 
superseded this earlier letter. In this Mr D says that the benefits he would have received from the 
DB scheme now seem to have been calculated largely correctly. 
But he still feels that there is a lack of clarity around how, for example, any higher amount he has 
paid to his personal pension rather than the DB scheme will be taken into consideration. Or how 
any of the other benefits the DB scheme provided, such as the dependents pension would be 
factored in. Mr D went on to detail the information he thinks that Royal London should be providing 
at this point. He thinks my decision should be now, essentially, that Royal London should re-
engage with him on these issues until he is confident it will adhere to the guarantee correctly. 
Our investigator didnt change their opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr D has raised a large amount of issues over the course of this complaint and provided some 
detailed calculations in respect of how he thinks the pension he gave up from the DB scheme 
should be calculated. While Ive carefully read and considered everything, I havent addressed 
every point about this here. Instead, Ive focused on what I see as the central issues of Mr Ds 
complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Royal London has agreed to provide Mr D with the same benefits as his DB scheme would have 
provided at his age 65. This can take the form of a pension or a transfer value if this is what Mr D 
wants. 
It has also provided some indicative calculations about the amounts his DB scheme would have 
provided in relation to the current value of his personal pension. And some other aspects of the 
guarantee. At the heart of this dispute is that Mr D hasnt entirely agreed with all of these. And I 
can see why Mr D has had some concerns about the way Royal London has been calculating 
some aspects of this. 
But its also clear that Royal London has been gathering information from Mr Ds DB scheme 
trustees to inform and adjust these calculations over time. And it also may have taken into 
consideration some of the information Mr D has provided. Mr D doesnt disagree with the most 
recent calculation of how much his DB scheme would have provided.  
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he has suffered a loss due to this. But I dont agree with this. 
This is because the guarantee doesnt come into effect until around ten years (from the time of the 
complaint). So, he cant have suffered a loss at this point, as he isnt due to receive any benefit 
from the guarantee until his age 65. 
So, I cant make an award on the basis that Mr D has suffered a loss now. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to make an award that he may suffer a loss in the future as this may not be the case. Particularly, as Royal London seems to be reviewing how it calculates the guarantee on an 
ongoing basis. 
This is a reasonably complex DB scheme with what looks to be three methods of calculating the 
final benefits. And any information Mr D has received up to now about the guarantee is only 
indicative of what it will look like when he retires. And this will remain the case until he does reach 
age 65 and takes the benefits from the personal pension and the guarantee applies. And whilst the 
calculations so far are important, they arent the full picture in respect of what Mr D may, or may 
not, receive when he retires. 
And this also applies to the other benefits he may have received from the DB scheme such as a 
dependents pension and the difference in the contributions between the two schemes. This is 
something that needs to be considered nearer Mr Ds retirement or, assuming he has dependents, 
if he were to predecease these. 
Given all of this, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require that Royal London 
correspond with Mr D in a certain way or about certain issues. Of course it does have to adhere to 
the terms of the guarantee and it should provide full information about how it has calculated it at 
this point. But I dont think its reasonable for me to specify what this should be now. 
Given all of the above I dont think that Royal London has acted incorrectly here. 
Royal London, and Mr D, received my provisional decision. Royal London hasnt commented 
on my provisional decision. 
Mr D didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that, in summary:
He wanted clarity on whether Royal London has explicitly said that it has taken on 
the pension review guarantee. 
Given that Royal London has made mistakes in the past it is possible it could make 
these going forward and so it should re-engage with Mr D now.
Mr D reiterated some of the problems hes seen with the calculations that Royal 
London has made in the past, and how these may affect the benefit the pension 
review guarantee provides. 
Mr D could retire now and so it is important that the any errors are rectified as soon 
as possible. 
Mr D still feels that he has important questions unanswered, and he detailed what he 
would like Royal London to do to rectify this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at what Mr D has provided in response to my provisional decision I can see 
that he still doesnt entirely agree with how Royal London is calculating the DB scheme 
benefits he gave up in relation to the guarantee that he was given as part of the personal 
pension review. And he doesnt agree with my provisional decision. In particular, he thinks I 
should require that Royal London engage with him on specific issues. That said, overall, I 
dont think Mr D has raised any new points, or provided any material new information, after 
receiving my provisional decision.
I still dont think Royal London has done anything fundamentally wrong here, it has said the 
calculation it is doing in respect of the value of his DB scheme benefits is a work in progress. 
And its reasonable to say it is aware of how Mr D now thinks it should be done. It is 
changing this calculation as it goes forward, if it thinks this is right.  Mr D has said that he could retire as he is now over 55. But he hasnt done this yet and hes 
not said when he is going to. I still think its only when he has retired, and the guarantee 
becomes payable, that a loss can be established. Any calculations about the retirement 
benefits he may get can only be indicative before this. 
And I still think it would be unreasonable at this this point to issue a decision that says Royal 
London has to engage with Mr D in a certain way, or within a certain timeframe. Royal 
London seems to be aware that the calculations it has performed so far may not be entirely 
complete but it is taking steps to change this. This may not be entirely how Mr D wants it to 
proceed, but I dont think it has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Royal London does need to correctly pay the guarantee when this time comes. And I dont 
see why Mr D cant consider any actual loss he may have suffered (rather than a potential 
loss) at this time. 
I dont think Royal London explicitly said to this service that it has undertaken to pay the 
guarantee. But it has taken on the responsibilities of third party which it took over. And it 
clearly intends to pay the guarantee which is why it is providing information about it. 
Overall, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I dont 
think Mr Ds complaint should succeed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman