DRN-2981633
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car supplied by Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) under a hire 
purchase agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr T entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with SMF. The car 
was around six years old and had covered just over 40,000 miles. The price was a little 
under £9,300.
Shortly after Mr T took delivery of the car, he experienced problems with its clutch. The 
dealership carried out repairs at no cost to Mr T.
In July 2020 Mr T says he had further problems and the car broke down. This time, however, 
the dealership would not carry out repairs, although it did offer to make a contribution 
towards their cost. The car was, it said, no longer covered by any warranty; it noted that it 
had covered a further 7,700 miles since it had been supplied to Mr T.
Mr T contacted SMF to explain what had happened. He said that he wanted to end the hire 
purchase agreement and that he had left the car with the dealership for collection. Mr T also 
stopped making payments under the hire purchase agreement. SMF collected the car in 
September 2020 and the sale proceeds of £3,600 were applied to Mr Ts account.
Mr T did not think this was fair as, he said, the car had not been of satisfactory quality. He 
referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators considered what had happened. 
He concluded that the car had not been of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery and 
that Mr T should therefore have been able to reject it. He recommended that SMF cancel the 
finance agreement and record the agreement as settled on Mr Ts credit file.
SMF did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I noted that SMF was under a duty to provide a car that was of satisfactory quality, taking 
into account matters such as its age, price and mileage. The fact that the car had needed 
gearbox repairs soon after delivery was an indication that it had not done that. I noted 
however that those repairs had been carried out at no cost to Mr T. He could not therefore 
rely on that issue in support of his claim here. Instead, I had to consider the subsequent 
problems, when the car broke down in July 2020. 
There was however very little evidence of what exactly was wrong with the car at that point, 
how any fault came about or, importantly, whether any fault was present or developing at the 
point at which Mr T took delivery of the car. Nor was it clear on what basis the repair 
estimate had been provided. I indicated that I did not believe, on the basis of the evidence 
then available, I could safely conclude that the car was not of satisfactory quality at delivery. 
I noted too that, since Mr T no longer had the car, it seemed unlikely that further evidence 
would come to light. 
Mr T did not accept my provisional decision. He sent further evidence, in particular the report 
he had received from the recovery service when his car broke down in July 2020 and 
evidence that the car had been serviced shortly before he took delivery of it and that it was 
not due another service for more than a year or around 8,000 miles.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The further information that Mr T has provided shows that the odometer reading in July 2020 
was around 50,000 miles, some 10,000 miles more than at delivery. And the breakdown 
report lists the fault codes identified by the patrol, with some explanation of them. It indicates 
the engine was misfiring as a result of issues with the throttle sensor and intake manifold. It 
was not possible to carry out roadside repairs. Mr Ts further evidence also shows that the 
cars servicing was up-to-date.
I do not believe however that, even with this additional evidence, I can properly conclude 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality at delivery. The problems which manifested 
themselves in July 2020 were clearly not apparent when the car was serviced in September 
2019. And Mr T was able to drive the car for some 10,000 miles before there were any 
problems with the engine. I do not believe therefore that I can safely say they were present 
or developing when he took delivery of the car.       
My final decisions
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require Specialist Motor Finance Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr 
Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman