DRN-3043096
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2006. 
Mr P says Cumberland Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The 
PPI ran for less than two years - six months were free and then it cost £10.50 per month.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr Ps representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mr P has said PPI was just included with his mortgage. But I think Cumberland made it 
clear he didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. For example, his mortgage 
application form had a PPI section with boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the PPI. 
On Mr Ps form the yes box was ticked  and I think he wouldve known that if he didnt 
want the cover the no box shouldve been ticked instead. The form says premiums were 
payable to the insurer and not included with the mortgage payment. The mortgage offer 
also made it clear only buildings insurance was mandatory insurance for the mortgage.
Cumberland recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale shows the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, he was eligible for cover 
and, although he had existing means, he still seems to have had a need for the cover  
from what hes told us, the benefit couldve been paid for longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted, for example. Also, nothing about Mr Ps employment or occupation 
wouldve made it hard for him to claim.
The policy terms wouldnt exclude a known health issue if in the first policy year it didnt 
persist or recur  otherwise related work absences were excluded. Mr P has told us of a 
health issue he had two years before the sale which kept him off work for two to three 
months. Hes also told us of another issue that started ten years earlier and had kept him 
off work for two months. Ive carefully considered all thats been said about these issues.
The PPI application form asked: Have you suffered, or received medical treatment or 
advice for any medical condition in the past year? On Mr Ps form this was ticked no. 
Still, there remained a chance Mr Ps health issues might recur and keep him off work in 
circumstances he couldnt claim for when he wouldve wanted to. On the other hand, with 
all Mr P has told us in mind, Ive nothing to make me think his more recent health issue 
was ongoing at the time of the sale  and his declaration suggests treatment for it had 
stopped some time earlier. 
Mr P has said the earlier health issue affects him still, and it is apparent from what hes 
told us that it was an ongoing one and so somehow current at the time of the sale. But it 
was an issue that Mr P, from his declaration at the sale, hadnt had medical treatment or 
advice for for a year. Hes told us he did see a doctor in the year before the sale for 
regular check-ups or possibly to change medication but none of this appears to have 
been so significant at the time that it affected Mr Ps answer at the sale when asked 
about any medical issues hed suffered or had treatment for in the previous year. 
Taking everything into account, including all the things Mr P wouldve still been able to 
claim for - there were no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems for example - on balance Im not persuaded that knowing more about how 
future work absences from known health issues might be excluded wouldve changed 
the decision Mr P made to take the cover.
Its possible the information Cumberland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it - so it looks to me like he wanted this 
type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for Mr P, as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to 
what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was given, which 
said it was cover to protect his mortgage payments in case of accidents, sickness or 
unemployment. It also looks like it was affordable. With this and all Ive said above in 
mind, it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr P if something went wrong and 
I dont think hed have declined it had Cumberland done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr P would have still taken the PPI. Given his circumstances at the time, I 
think it couldve provided a useful benefit if Mr P couldnt work in the circumstances the 
policy covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely Mr P thought he was 
getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Cumberland 
should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.Mr Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Cumberland doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Im grateful to Mr P for his assistance in providing further information and his courtesy 
throughout our consideration of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman