DRN-2415959
The complaint
Mr S has complained that the Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) have not met a claim that he made 
under his unemployment policy.
What happened
Mr K had worked for his employer since 1 April 2019. He took out an unemployment policy 
and cover started on 13 February 2020. He was made redundant on 3 June 2020. 
Lloyds didnt meet the claim that Mr K made under the policy. It relied on a policy exclusion 
which said claims would not be covered during the 90 days following the policy start date 
where the policyholder was made aware that there is a risk that they could be made 
unemployed. 
Mr K didnt accept that he was aware of a risk to his employment and complained to our 
service. Our investigator didnt find that Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mr K appealed. He 
reiterated that he was not aware of a risk to his position. He said that although his 
employers CEO made a company wide call on 5 May 2020 explaining that that each and 
every department would be impacted, he did not see this as meaning that his position was in 
jeopardy. Lastly Mr K said that risk isnt defined in the policy document and that he was not 
aware of any risk to his employment until 20 May 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent disregarded Mr Ks strength of feeling but I dont uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr Ks policy doesnt offer any cover for claims made during the initial exclusion period. This 
is where:
you are made aware that there is a risk you could be made unemployed even if the formal
notification of your unemployment was issued outside of this period.
The initial exclusion period is 90 days. As Mr Ks policy commenced on 13 February 2020 
the exclusion period ended on 12 May 2020. 
It isnt in dispute that the CEO announced the possibility of redundancies on 5 May 2020. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ks argument that he didnt think this applied to him  he 
worked in a department of 60 people and in fact only four were made redundant. But I find 
that that the global announcement to all employees that all departments were at risk did 
include Mr K. Although risk isnt defined in the policy given its natural meaning I can only 
reach the conclusion that a risk was clearly identified and included Mr Ks role, as it did that 
of all employees. 
I accept that it wasnt until 20 May 2020 that Mr K was told he may be made unemployed, 
but for the reason given above I dont find it would be reasonable to say this was the first 
time he became aware of the risk to his role, given the CEOs announcement on 5 May 
2020. Im satisfied therefore that Lloyds was able to conclude that Mr K was made aware 
that there was a risk that he could be made redundant during the initial exclusion period. It 
follows that I cant say that it treated Mr K unfairly by declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman