DRN-2732883
The complaint
Mr D complains EUI Limited (trading as Admiral) handled a windscreen claim he made under 
his motor insurance policy poorly.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr D contacted Admiral to make a claim for damage to his rear 
windscreen. Admiral noted the claim and told Mr D he could make the appointment directly 
with its third-party windscreen supplier, A. Admiral are responsible for this complaint as A 
was acting as their agent. 
An appointment was arranged. Mr D says the technician called to say he was on his way but 
then never arrived. Mr D says between four and six appointments were arranged with A but 
no one ever came to fix the damage. Because of this Mr D says that his car was then 
vandalised, which resulted in further damage including water damage. Mr D also says, 
because he couldnt use his car to get to work, he then lost his job and the stress of this, and 
the issues with Admiral, caused the breakdown of his relationship. 
 
Mr D complained to Admiral. Admiral asked A to respond on its behalf. A said a technical 
issue had meant the appointment was not booked correctly which is why a technician never 
arrived to complete the work on Mr Ds car. It offered Mr D £60 in recognition of its error and 
the inconvenience caused. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Admirals response. So he referred his complaint to our service.
An Investigator considered Mr Ds complaint. He said, in summary, he thought Admirals 
offer of £60 was fair to resolve things. Mr D didnt accept this.
As Mr D didnt accept this, the complaints been passed to me decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D is unhappy firstly that Admiral wouldnt arrange the appointment with A on his behalf 
and that he was told hed have to do this himself. This is standard procedure in the industry 
 as its easier for customers to arrange repairs directly with approved suppliers than it would 
be for the insurer to do this acting as a go-between  for example they wont necessarily 
know Mr Ds availability for an appointment. So I dont find Admiral did anything wrong by 
telling Mr D this is what hed need to do in order to have his windscreen damage repaired. 
Mr D is further unhappy that, when an appointment was arranged, the technician didnt turn 
up. Admiral has accepted that this was the case and it was because of a technical error with 
As booking system. As Admiral already accept something went wrong here, what remains 
for me to consider is what Admiral should do to put things right. Admiral have already offered 
to refund Mr D his excess payment and pay him £60 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr D says this isnt enough. He says there were multiple appointments made with A that 
they didnt turn up for which has had a significant impact on his life. 
As records show only one appointment was made  28 February 2020. Admirals notes 
show that when Mr D contacted them to explain no one had turned up for this appointment 
he was asked if hed like to arrange another appointment. The notes show Mr D said he 
didnt want a further appointment arranged. So, based on Admiral and As records, no further 
appointments were arranged. We asked Mr D to provide us with further details of when 
these further appointments were supposed to have taken place but he said he couldnt 
remember. So I find there was only one appointment scheduled that didnt take place as 
promised. 
This is unfortunate and inconvenient, but it wouldnt have been unreasonable for another 
appointment to have been made. And considering how quickly the first one had been 
arranged, in one day, its likely a second one wouldve been booked quickly too. That 
wouldve likely avoided any further damage to the car.
Mr D then says, as a result of the windscreen not being repaired, there was further damage 
to his car. But it was Mr Ds choice not to go ahead with any further bookings. I can see from 
the notes he asked to cancel completely. Having decided not to make another appointment 
with A, its not clear why Mr D didnt then make his own arrangements for the windscreen to 
be repaired or made sure his car was at least watertight and not open to further damage.
As no further appointments were arranged for A to attend and repair Mr Ds windscreen at 
his request, I cant fairly say this was because Admiral or A did anything wrong. Mr D has 
told us, because of the damage to his car, this has had a severe impact on his life. Hes 
since lost his job and his relationship has broken down. While Im sorry to hear Mr Ds been 
having such a difficult time, as I havent found Admiral made a mistake in relation to further 
appointments, I dont find Admiral are responsible for the things Mr D says they are. 
Mr D is unhappy he hasnt received a refund for the failed appointment. However, Admirals 
records show, while a payment was attempted, no payment was taken. We asked Mr D to 
provide evidence of the payment he says shouldve been refunded but he said he couldnt 
do so, because it was made by his partner who hes no longer in contact with. So, as theres 
no evidence of a payment being made by Mr D, I havent found Admiral need to make a 
refund to him. 
Mr D also submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR) and was unhappy that it hadnt been 
responded to. Admirals notes show that Mr D had been asked to provide photographic 
identification in order for Admiral to proceed with the request, which they didnt receive. So I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mr D hasnt received his request if he never provided the 
information Admiral asked for.
 
As only one appointment was arranged and missed by A  and theres no evidence of a 
payment made by Mr D that needs to be refunded - I find the offer made of £60 is fair and 
reasonable to resolve this complaint.
 
My final decision
Admiral has already made an offer to pay £60 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman