DRN-2974380
The complaint
S complain about the decision of Allianz Insurance Plc to decline their business interruption 
insurance claim for losses arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
S are a partnership that operate as a public house. They held a retailers insurance policy 
underwritten by Allianz. The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for 
business interruption. In March 2020, S had to close their premises as a result of the 
government-imposed restrictions introduced to control the spread of COVID-19. 
S contacted Allianz to claim for their losses. However, Allianz said the claim was not covered 
in the circumstances. Allianz said that the core cover provided by the business interruption 
section responded to situations of damage, and that COVID-19 had not caused damage 
which had led to Ss closure. Allianz also said that the extension to this cover that related to 
disease was limited to the specified list of diseases set out in the policy, and as this did not 
included COVID-19 the claim was not covered. 
S were unhappy with this outcome and brought their complaint to this service. But our 
Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He sympathised with S, whose 
business had been interrupted through no fault of their own. But explained that the policy 
only provided cover for certain claims in certain circumstances. And that Allianz had correctly 
applied the terms of the policy to the circumstances of Ss claim. Understandably, S wanted 
to explore all avenues and so their complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on S, I wont be upholding their complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that S closed their business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of their business was such that they wouldnt have been allowed to 
stay open after this time. So, the type of cover theyre looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy S took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ss policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, including the Denial of Access extension, is based on 
an interruption to the business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led to an interruption of Ss business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ss claim. And I think 
Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ss claim under this area of cover.
Ss policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases.
The Specified Illnesses extension in Ss policy says cover is provided for:
Loss as a direct result of:
a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of 
a Specified Illness
c any occurrence of a Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises

However, the policy goes on to define Specified Illness as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
a food or drink poisoning, or
b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal 
Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral 
Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent 
local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided S with cover for the circumstances of their claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt 
one of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Ss comments that COVID-19 is a new disease that 
no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Allianz to 
include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think Allianz intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for 
all diseases. Allianz deliberately chose to define Specified Illness by reference to a static 
list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. And it was these types of policy that formed 
part of the courts considerations in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance 
(UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 and the related judgment in the court at first instance (the 
FCA test case). But this is not the type of policy S have.I think the purpose and effect of the policy S have is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Specified Illness in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ss policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Allianzs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Allianz should have met Ss claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for S, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman