DRN-2534219
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different view of 
the case to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a provisional decision and asked for 
comments. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current view is that I shouldnt uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I think this.
First though, I should point out that the sale of the PPI took place a long time ago 
and, not surprisingly, none of the original documents from the time are now 
available  only basic records exist. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened about 23 years ago, when the PPI started. Ive 
borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with 
all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on 
what evidence there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest 
outcome can be difficult.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. This was because Mr H 
suffered from a medical condition when the PPI started. The adjudicator said this 
meant it would have been difficult for Mr H to make a claim and so Santander 
shouldnt have recommended the
PPI to Mrs and Mr H.
However, my current view of this is different. It is true that, if Mr H had needed to 
make a claim arising directly from that condition, he wouldnt have been covered. But 
the chances of him needing to make a claim for that reason do not appear especially 
high. He has told us that hed had the condition since childhood; and that he took 
medication for the condition and had never had to miss a days work from it, or go to 
hospital unexpectedly.
So I dont think, even if Santander had advised Mrs and Mr H about this limitation 
in the policy, its likely to have made a big difference to whether or not they took 
the PPI. Mr H would still have been able to make a claim if he was off work due to 
other medical conditions  and would also be covered for unemployment anyway.
So my view at this stage is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold in the way the adjudicator 
said.
Ive checked whether there are other reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold. Again, 
my view at this stage is that I dont think these apply. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr H have said they werent aware of the PPI  so Im taking this to mean 
they think the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. However, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence.
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Looking at the documents that were probably used by Santander at the time, I 
think its likely the PPI was mentioned, and that Mrs and Mr H were given a choice 
about it  although its not surprising if they now dont remember all the details of 
what happened so many years ago.
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs and Mr 
Hs consent.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr H, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs and Mr Hs particular circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have 
paid benefits at the same time as
Mrs and Mr H received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And, from what 
Mr and Mrs H have told us, they didnt have substantial savings to fall back on. So 
the PPI could have put Mrs and Mr H in a more secure position, if they eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained all the costs and benefits of the 
policy. But, looking at the actual costs and their circumstances at the time, I dont 
anyway think full and clear information about the costs is likely to have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr H took the
PPI.
I didnt receive any comments or further evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionIm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman