DRN-2926772
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) - 
the underwriter of her home insurance - declined a claim for storm damage.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms R made a claim for storm damage when water began to enter her 
property through her porch roof. Ms R didnt pursue the claim and instead arranged and paid 
for repairs to the roof herself.
In August 2020, Ms R made a second claim for storm damage. She said water had entered 
her porch from a different place in the roof. NFUs loss adjuster concluded there were no 
signs of storm damage but that the roof covering was in a fatigued and poor condition, there 
were signs of poor workmanship and wear and tear. The loss adjuster also noted water 
stains on Ms Rs living room ceiling. NFU declined Ms Rs claim.
 
Ms R complained to NFU because she felt her claim had been rejected unfairly. She said its 
loss adjuster told her he wouldve approved the claim if there was either a storm, explosion 
or fire. And she said her roof was well-maintained despite the loss adjuster telling her that 
there were some chipped tiles. She also said her porch roof first began leaking during the 
previous year after an exceptionally bad storm. She said shed called NFU about it and it told 
her to provide a minimum of two quotes for repairs. Ms R said she could only get one quote 
and because of this - and because her builder needed to remove tiles to trace the damage - 
shed instructed him to carry out the repairs at the same time and paid for them herself. She 
said that NFU had recently told her it couldve worked on her first claim with one quote, 
which Ms R was disappointed about. 
Ms R asked NFU for a copy of its loss adjusters report on her second claim. Ms R sent NFU 
photos of the damage and a report from a local builder which said storm and rain had 
caused the damage to the roof. Ms R contacted NFU to explain that the damage noted in its 
report to her living room ceiling was not connected to the claim. 
NFUs final response letter (FRL) to Ms Rs complaint said that the ingress of water was due 
to the poor condition of the roof and could not be attributed to storm damage. It said it 
wouldnt pay her claim. NFU said it was still reviewing Ms Rs contractors report and would 
contact her to discuss it further. 
Ms R contacted us. She told us about her first claim for storm damage and NFU telling her to 
get three quotes and paying the costs herself. She said another storm had caused water to 
ingress into her porch through the roof from a different place and shed sent NFU two quotes 
for repairs. She said her roof was well-maintained, that thered been no other water ingress 
to her property and it was untrue for NFU to say water was coming into her living room.
Ms R also told us the first leak was repaired by a DIY guy because shed been unable to 
find a roofer and that the marks on her living room ceiling had been caused by smoke from 
her log burner and candles. She said as well that the loss adjuster told her hed have 
approved her second claim if she had a receipt for the repairs to the roof she paid for. 
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint because he didnt think NFU had acted 
unfairly in rejecting Mrs Rs claim. Ms R didnt agree with our investigators view. 
Ms R provided a list of specific and named storms that had occurred in the UK during 2019 
and 2020. She disputed thered been poor workmanship because the repairs had stopped 
the earlier leak. She said after shed challenged the cause of the marks to the living room 
ceiling it has changed from water stains to moisture and that if it had been moisture, there 
would be black mould. Ms R said she paid cash for the earlier repairs to keep costs to a 
minimum because NFU refused to help her.
  
Our investigator told Ms R he wouldnt be changing his view. Ms R responded saying 
builders working on her property around the time of the second leak had to down tools 
because of the severe weather. And that despite her builders boarding up and sealing parts 
of her property with black polythene, water was still able to get in. 
Ms R said the weather reports our investigator relied on confirmed storms took place. She 
said the exposed location of her property and the high rainfall wouldve meant the readings 
at her property wouldve been higher than the readings from the weather station referenced 
in our weather reports, which were taken from a weather station five miles away. 
Ms R said there was no sign of moss or debris on her roof, so it was well-maintained and 
that thered been no mention of the roof being in poor condition when it was inspected six 
years ago when shed bought the property. 
Ms R said the loss adjusters report was incorrect. It mentioned one length of lead flashing 
indicating poor workmanship, when it was common practice to install lead in this way when 
her property was built. And that, if slightly chipped tiles were faulty, then her whole house 
would be like a sieve but water had only entered through her porch.  She said the report 
mentioned mortar drawing moisture into her porch, when it was water and not moisture 
leaking in. She said there were no broken or smashed tiles on the ground despite the report 
mentioning lose mortar and debris. Ms R said a tile had been displaced by the storms which 
had allowed water to enter her porch. She also said there is no mention of storm damage 
exclusions in her policy.
 
Our investigator didnt change his view. He issued a second view addressing - but not 
upholding - Ms Rs complaint points about NFUs request for quotes and her conversation 
with NFUs loss adjuster about the invoice for repairs.  Ms R didnt agree with the view and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has raised other complaint points relating to the pricing of her cover, which I 
understand are being investigated by this service as a separate complaint. So this decision 
will only concern Ms Rs complaint about her storm damage claim.
When we consider a storm claim, we look at whether there was a storm, whether the 
damage theres been is consistent with storm damage and - if there is damage consistent 
with a storm - whether the storm was the main cause of that damage.
Theres some dispute about the weather conditions at Ms Rs property in the run up to her 
second claim. So rather than consider whether there was a storm, Ive first considered whether the damage seen to Ms Rs roof is consistent with storm damage. And I dont think it 
is. 
When this service considers the cause of storm damage, we usually rely on expert opinion 
as to the cause of the damage. So Ive reviewed NFUs experts report and the expert report 
provided by Ms R.
NFUs photos show some chipped tiles and what appears to be loose mortar sitting in the 
lead valleys of the roof. The photos also show gapping between the lead flashing on the roof 
where it has come away from the mortar alongside it. NFUs report said the damage it had 
seen wasnt storm damage but was consistent with wear and tear and poor workmanship, 
which doesnt seem unreasonable given the damage shown in NFUs photos of Ms Rs roof.
  
Ms Rs expert report says that storm and rain have caused damage to Ms Rs property with 
water coming through the ceilings and down the walls from lead valleys and temporary 
repairs to the tiles and felt. It said tiles had come off the roof in high winds, puncturing the 
lead valleys, and that roofing felt had been damaged, which had led water to penetrate 
through. But Ms Rs report doesnt include any photographs. And the photos Ive seen, dont 
show the storm damage Ms Rs expert describes, because I cant see missing tiles, 
damaged roofing felt or lead valleys that have been punctured. 
So Ms Rs experts report gives me no reason to doubt NFUs experts findings that there 
was no sign of storm damage to Ms Rs roof and that the damage had been caused by poor 
workmanship and wear and tear. 
But Ms R says that there were mistakes in NFUs report. So its findings cant be relied on. 
But I dont think the mistakes Ms R has pointed out are material enough to undermine NFUs 
finding that there is no storm damage to her roof. NFUs photos appear to support its 
findings and Ms Rs expert testimony hasnt given me cause to doubt NFUs conclusions. 
 
Im not persuaded then that NFU was wrong in concluding that there was no storm damage 
to Ms Rs roof and only damage caused by poor workmanship and wear and tear.  The 
terms of Mrs Rs cover set out that damage which happens gradually and damage caused 
by faulty workmanship is excluded from cover. So I dont think NFU were unfair or 
unreasonable in declining Ms Rs second claim for storm damage. 
I dont think the damage to Ms Rs property would be covered by her accidental damage 
cover either because damage caused by faulty workmanship is excluded. And damage 
caused by wear and tear and which happens gradually is listed as Excluded Risks, so 
wouldnt be covered either. 
NFU say that its standard practice to ask for two quotes and confirmed that it had only asked 
Ms R for two quotes when Ms R made her first claim. Ive listened to a call recording from 
around the time Ms R made her first storm claim where estimates are discussed. NFU asks 
Ms R if she could take some photos of the damage and get someone down to say if there is 
damage to the roof. NFU doesnt specify a precise number of quotes Ms R should get but 
rather some estimates for repair after which it could take it from there. 
Ive listened to a call recording from November 2019 around three months after Ms R made 
her first claim. NFU asks Ms R whether she wants to continue with the claim shed made in 
August. Ms R says that when she got someone to take a look at the roof they needed to take 
it apart to have a look at it all and because she couldnt give NFU the two quotes itd asked 
for, she just went ahead and paid for it herself. The call handler explains that normally if you 
find it really, really hard to get a second estimatewe could probably try and work with the one. Ms R says yeah, I did know that you seeits all done and dusted now and confirms 
shed like to withdraw the claim.
I dont think NFU acted unreasonably here. Ms R confirmed to NFU that she knew it couldve 
worked with her with one estimate before she withdrew the claim. I also think its reasonable 
for NFU to have expected Ms R to get in touch with it if she was experiencing difficulties in 
getting the information she thought it needed, before going ahead with the repairs. NFU also 
spoke to Ms R within three months of her making her claim to find out if she wanted to 
continue with it, which I think is reasonable. 
I also dont think Ms R proving shed paid for repairs after making her first claim would have 
led to NFU approving her second storm claim. NFUs investigation concluded that the 
damage wasnt caused by a storm. And I dont think an invoice for earlier repairs wouldve 
caused NFU to reach a different conclusion that would have led to it paying her second 
claim. And there is no evidence of the costs Ms R says she paid for, so it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to instruct NFU to reimburse her for them. 
There is no record of any dialogue between Ms R and the loss adjuster, so Ive looked at 
other evidence to decide whether I think - on balance - NFUs loss adjuster misled Ms R 
here by telling Ms R that proof of payment for earlier repairs would mean approval of her 
second claim. And I dont think he did. NFU instructed its loss adjuster to carry out a survey 
of the roof, which included taking photos and Ms R said this conversation happened just 
before the loss adjuster put his final report together for NFU. So its reasonable to expect 
that the loss adjuster wouldve known hed need to consider more than just an invoice for 
earlier repairs  such as the photographs of the roof - when deciding whether NFU should 
pay Ms Rs claim. So whilst its possible Ms R and the loss adjuster may have perhaps 
discussed the repairs shed paid for and whether there was an invoice for them, Im not 
persuaded NFUs loss adjuster wouldve gone as far as telling Ms R that proof of payment 
for earlier repairs would mean approval of her second claim. So I cant say that NFUs loss 
adjuster acted unreasonably here.
In summary, because I dont think it was unreasonable for NFU to have declined Ms Rs 
second claim for storm damage and because I dont think NFU have acted unreasonably 
towards Ms R, I wont be upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman