DRN-4107991
The complaint
Mr M complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) for declining his 
claim for storm damage. He wants RSA to accept his claim and pay for repairs to his home.
What happened
Mr M advises that he had extensive roof repairs/replacement undertaken in 2017, following a 
leak. 
Since 2019 he has insured his home with RSA. 
In February 2022, he returned home during heavy rain and discovered water entering the 
upstairs of his home. It appears that this may be in the same part of his home as the 
previous leak. 
He contacted RSA and submitted a claim. 
There had been storm wind conditions shortly before this time and RSA indicated that he 
should carry out repairs privately, up to £1500, and that this would be authorised. 
Mr M contacted a local builder who advised that scaffolding would be needed. He therefore 
contacted RSA and explained that the costs would exceed £1500. 
RSA then withdrew its authorisation and arranged for a surveyor to go to visit Mr Ms 
property. 
The surveyor attended Mr Ms home in mid-April 2022. They took photos externally and of 
the internal water damage. The surveyor considered that there was no evidence of storm 
damage, and that the damage they saw internally had occurred over time and so was not 
covered. 
RSA therefore declined the claim. Mr M indicated that he wanted to appeal the decision. 
RSA then sent him a final decision letter without him having submitted his arguments against 
the decision. This final decision agreed that the claim should be declined. 
Mr M was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. They 
considered that the evidence supported RSAs decision that the damage to Mr Ms property 
had occurred through wear and tear. 
Mr M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this case in March 2023. In that provisional 
decision I indicated that, whilst I had sympathy with some of Mr Ms points, I had not seen 
evidence of damage that I could say was caused by a storm, and so I considered that RSAs 
decision was not unreasonable. I therefore did not uphold the complaint. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties, and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr M indicated that he wished to consult a loss assessor and potentially submit a report. 
RSA has not responded. 
I have allowed additional time for Mr M to produce evidence to dispute my provisional 
decision, but nothing further has been produced.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence or arguments have been received, I remain of the view set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasoning as my final decision, and I do not 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint, and do 
not ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman