DRN-3039980
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly recorded a default against his name.
What happened
Mr C originally opened a student bank account with Santander. Around July 2020, the 
account automatically changed into a graduate account. At the same time, Santander 
treated the account as dormant because no funds had credited the account for some time.
Mr C contacted Santander to let it know he was still a student and arranged for his account 
to change back to a student account. The student account gave Mr C access to an arranged 
overdraft of £1,800  which was interest and fee-free. 
Around July 2020, Mr C started receiving letters from Santander about a balance he owed, 
because hed borrowed more than his arranged overdraft limit and because Santander 
treated the account as dormant. After further letters and having not received payment of the 
balance owed, Santander defaulted Mr Cs account in January 2021.
Mr C complained because he believed changing the account back to a student account 
would mean he no longer needed to pay the balance that was owed. Mr C also says that he 
was advised by Santander during live chat conversations to ignore the letters requesting 
payment.
Santander confirmed that it had been writing to Mr C to repay the balance owed because the 
account was dormant. The bank says it recorded the default correctly. But it also 
acknowledged that it provided incorrect advice to Mr C during its live chat with him and 
offered to pay £100 compensation because of this.
Mr C escalated his complaint to this service - he wants the default removed, an apology and 
compensation. Our investigator decided that Santander had recorded the default fairly. The 
investigator agreed that Mr C received incorrect advice via live chat but felt Mr C had been 
provided with enough communication about the balance he owed. The investigator also felt 
that Mr C wouldve been unable to pay off what he owed even if he was given correct advice. 
Santander recently increased its compensation offer to £150  our investigator concluded 
that this was fair.
Mr C didnt agree, explaining that he wouldve acted after receiving Santanders letters had 
he not been misadvised. Because he didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C will be disappointed to hear that Im not asking Santander to do anything 
differently. Ill explain why.
The terms of Mr Cs account require a minimum of £500 to be paid into the account each 
academic term  by doing so, the terms say that Mr C would remain eligible for the interest 
and fee-free arranged overdraft (among other benefits). Santander decided that Mr Cs 
account had become dormant and I think this was reasonable. Looking at the history of 
transactions, I can see that the minimum hadnt been paid into Mr Cs account for quite 
some time. So I think Santander acted fairly here.
Around the same time, Santander began writing to Mr C because hed exceeded his 
arranged overdraft limit and the difference needed repaying. I wont list every letter that was 
sent, but I can see Santander started with requesting payment of the unarranged overdraft 
amount and letting Mr C know what steps it could take if the balance wasnt paid. The letters 
that followed explained that the full overdraft balance was owed given payment hadnt been 
made and that some of Mr Cs banking features had been stopped. As this balance wasnt 
paid, Santander issued a default notice in December 2020 and defaulted the account around 
a month later.
I think Santander acted fairly when it defaulted Mr Cs account. The terms of the account 
explain that the bank may demand repayment of the amount owed in full at any time. The 
terms also set out that failing to make repayments can affect Mr Cs credit rating. As I 
explained earlier, Santander acted fairly when it decided that Mr Cs account had become 
dormant. So he was no longer eligible for an arranged overdraft. Despite this, I can see that 
Santanders initial letters only requested repayment of the unarranged overdraft balance. It 
was later (around August 2020) that Santander decided to request repayment of the full 
overdraft balance.
Santander issued its default notice to Mr C and Im satisfied this meets the requirements set 
out in Section 88 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which says:
the notice must specify the nature of the alleged breach;
if the breach is capable of remedy what action is required to remedy it and the date 
before which that action is to be taken;
if the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be repaid.
Between July and December 2020, it seems Santander wrote to Mr C nine times about the 
balance he owed. I think the bank took reasonable steps to have the balance repaid before 
defaulting Mr Cs account  so I think Santander acted fairly.
Mr C mentioned that he didnt receive all the letters Santander sent. But I can see all the 
letters are correctly addressed and I havent seen anything that suggests there were any 
postal problems that wouldve affected Mr C. Moreover, Mr C refers to receiving these letters 
during live chat conversations he had with Santander  so I think its likely he received the 
letters Santander sent, even if he now doesnt recall doing so.
Mr C says he didnt act on the letters that were sent to him because a Santander 
representative told him to ignore letters regarding his overdraft. Ive seen copies of the live 
chat conversations Mr C had with Santander and I can see he was given this advice on at 
least two occasions. It seems Mr C was under a misunderstanding about why hed been sent 
these letters, as he believed changing his account back to a student account would result in 
him not having to repay the overdraft balance. 
Santander agrees that Mr C was misadvised when he was told to ignore the letters, so I 
wont comment further on whether the bank did something wrong here. More recently, 
Santander increased its compensation offer for this error to £150.I agree that this advice wouldve had some effect on Mr Cs decision to not act on the letters 
he received. But Im not persuaded that this advice was what led to his account being 
defaulted. I say this because Santander had been writing to Mr C for several months before 
he first contacted the bank via live chat and hed already received at least five letters by this 
point. Santander had also stopped certain features of Mr Cs account as well as block his 
card several weeks before he contacted the bank. 
So I think by the time Mr C received incorrect advice, he was already aware that he needed 
to repay the overdraft balance. It seems to me that he later realised that changing the 
account back to a student account wouldnt stop this action, because Santander continued to 
write to him. And the bank made it clear in subsequent letters that Mr Cs account would 
default. So, on balance, despite the incorrect advice given to Mr C by the bank, I think its 
likely he was aware that the bank would eventually default his account if he didnt repay the 
overdraft balance. 
But the bank did make an error and Mr C says the situation caused him stress. Santander 
has offered £150 compensation to make up for this. I think this is a fair offer and is within the 
region of what I wouldve asked it pay had it not offered this amount already. 
In summary, I think Santander acted fairly and in line with the terms of Mr Cs account when 
it took action to recover his overdraft balance. When it didnt receive payment, the default 
notice Santander issued was in line with regulatory requirements and I think the bank acted 
reasonably when it recorded the default. So I wont be asking Santander to remove this from 
Mr Cs credit records.
Putting things right
As I explained above, paying £150 compensation is a fair way for Santander to make up for 
the incorrect advice it provided Mr C.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Santander UK Plc to do anything differently in 
relation to this complaint. If Mr C accepts, Santander UK Plc should pay him £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman