DRN-3256318
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly declined its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr B is the companys director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
B applied to Clydesdale for a Bounce Back Loan in June 2020.
Clydesdale was only accepting Bounce Back Loan applications from existing customers. B 
didnt hold any accounts with Clydesdale, but Mr B did. So he used his personal account 
details to apply.
Clydesdale declined the application. It told Mr B that this was because B didnt hold an 
account with the bank and that while he had a personal account, this was inactive. 
Mr B challenged Clydesdales decision on the basis that the reasons given werent valid 
under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. And he processed a transaction on his 
personal account with a view to satisfying the banks requirements. But Clydesdale 
maintained its decision to decline the application on the basis that the company was 
operating through a personal account. 
Mr B referred the matter to us. He thought Clydesdale had treated B unfairly, as its website 
had said that a personal current account was sufficient to apply. He also referred to a ruling 
by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), which he believed prevented banks from 
forcing businesses to open new accounts in order to access the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
He wanted the bank to grant the loan and pay it to his personal account and compensation 
for the impact on Bs ability to carry out its business plan.
One of our investigators reviewed Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, this was because he thought Clydesdale had been entitled to require B to hold its 
own account with the bank as it was a separate legal entity from Mr B in his personal 
capacity. He couldnt see that B had then applied to the bank for the requisite account.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said that B held an account with another 
provider, but as it wasnt offering Bounce Back Loans hed approached Clydesdale given his 
existing personal relationship with it.  He also said that Clydesdale had required B to open a 
fee-paying account in contravention of the CMA ruling, failing to offer a fee-free account at 
any point despite his appeals and complaint. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I didnt intend to uphold Bs 
complaint. I said:
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some 
discretion as to how they accepted applications  both from new and existing 
customers. While it wasnt a requirement of the Scheme that applicants had, or 
needed to enter into, a business relationship with a lender, it was up to each lender 
to decide whether or not it was willing to lend to those without one. 
Clydesdale was only accepting Bounce Back Loan applications from existing 
customers. Thats a decision it was entitled to make. 
While Mr B was an existing customer, B wasnt. B is a separate legal entity to Mr B 
and it was B that was trying to obtain the loan. So in order to be eligible to apply to 
Clydesdale, B needed to have an account with the bank. It didnt.
As B didnt hold an existing account with Clydesdale, it seems to me that it was never 
going to be eligible to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan with it. I say this 
because:
Although personal account customers could apply, I think this was only 
relevant for sole traders  where an individual might reasonably be using their 
own personal account for business purposes. That wasnt the case here  as 
above, Mr B was seeking to apply on behalf of a distinct legal entity in B.
That notwithstanding, Clydesdale was only accepting applications from 
customers managing their business through their existing account with the 
bank. B didnt do that. It held an account elsewhere and there were no 
business-related transactions on Mr Bs personal Clydesdale account.
The absence of a Clydesdale account held in Bs name  or, at the very least, 
one through which its business was run  meant that the bank wasnt going to 
be able to complete the checks required of it under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. Lenders were required to carry out Know Your Customer, anti-fraud 
and anti-money laundering checks, and I think the information available to 
Clydesdale by virtue of Mr Bs existing personal relationship wouldve been 
insufficient for it to approve Bs loan application.
I recognise that much of this information wouldnt have been apparent to Mr B when 
he applied. From what Ive seen of the banks website at this time, very limited 
information was published about its requirements and processes. This was updated 
over time and was subsequently more reflective of what Ive said above. Ideally this 
wouldve been available from the outset, but given the Scheme had only been 
recently launched (and at some speed) at the time of Bs application, I dont think its 
unreasonable that the information it published was limited.
Mr B is unhappy that Clydesdale didnt offer B a fee-free account. And hes right to 
highlight the CMA ruling  since raising the complaint, and in response to findings by 
the CMA, Clydesdale made a fee-free account available to borrowers. But again, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think this has had a material impact on Bs 
situation  as the company was never going to get the Bounce Back Loan, it had no 
need for the servicing account. B also remained free to apply to Clydesdale for a fee-
free account and had sufficient time and opportunity to reapply after the banks initial 
decision, which was made in July 2020 while the Scheme ran until 31 March 2021.
So while I can appreciate Mr Bs concern, I dont think Clydesdales actions unfairly 
deprived B of access to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme  as I dont think it wouldve been able to obtain the loan from the bank even if things had been handled any 
differently.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional decision. He said that Clydesdale was supposed to notify 
customers affected by its initial requirement to open a fee-paying account that a fee-free 
alternative was now available  but it didnt notify him or publish this information on its 
website. Mr B also thought that B wouldve passed the requisite checks to obtain a Bounce 
Back Loan, as  aside from the inactive current account  he also had a mortgage account 
with the bank and had passed the more rigorous checks conducted to obtain it. 
Clydesdale didnt respond with anything further for me to take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why Mr Bs additional comments havent changed my opinion. 
While Ive not seen the finer detail of the CMAs agreement with Clydesdale, based on the 
information Ive seen I dont agree with Mr B that the bank ought to have written to him with 
notification that a fee-free feeder account was available after this change was introduced. I 
think this requirement only extended to customers who had gone on to open the fee-paying 
account as part of the Bounce Back Loan application process. Mr B did not. 
I dont agree that such information about a fee-free feeder account wasnt published by 
Clydesdale on its website as required. Screenshots of the banks website show that it was.
In any event, even I were to accept what Mr B says on these points, I dont think this had a 
material impact on Bs position as I still dont think B wouldve been eligible to apply to the 
bank for a Bounce Back Loan with it. Mr B didnt agree with my provisional finding on this 
aspect, on the basis that he held a Clydesdale mortgage account. This wouldve had no 
bearing on whether B wouldve passed the distinct checks conducted as part of the Bounce 
Back Loan application process. And so for the reasons set out in my provisional decision I 
still think the company wouldve been ineligible to obtain the loan from Clydesdale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman