DRN-2643928
The complaint
 Mr F is unhappy with how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited, trading as 
Animal Friends Pet Insurance, dealt with a claim.
 
What happened
 In March 2020 Mr F took his dog to the vets as she was wincing when she was touched. 
The vet recommended investigative x-rays and Mr F submitted a claim for these under his 
pet insurance policy with Red Sands. But Red Sands declined the claim under the pre-
existing conditions exclusion.
But the dogs condition got worse and, in April 2020, the vet went ahead with the x-rays. Mr 
F submitted a post-treatment claim to Red Sands, but this was again declined for the same 
reason. The vet recommended a CT or MRI scan but, without insurance cover, Mr F wasnt 
able to continue with the treatment.
In June 2020 Mr F found his dog paralysed. He took it back to the same vet, who said that a 
CT or MRI scan was now vital. So Mr F took his dog to an emergency vet who completed a 
CT scan. And this showed the dog needed surgery. All of this cost Mr F over £6,000.
Mr F had complained to Red Sands, and they accepted they were wrong to decline the claim 
for the CT scan and subsequent treatment. They accepted cover for Mr Fs dogs condition 
and paid out up to the policy limit of £2,000. Mr F wasnt happy as he thought that, if Red 
Sands had accepted the claim originally, his dogs condition wouldnt have worsened and 
she wouldnt have needed as much treatment. So he asked Red Sands to pay all of the vets 
fees, and to make an allowance for future treatment. Because Red Sands didnt agree, Mr F 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Red Sands accepted they shouldve paid the CT scan and subsequent 
treatment claim, so he didnt investigate this further. Instead he concentrated on what would 
likely have happened if Red Sands accepted this claim earlier.
The investigator spoke to both vets involved, and he didnt find any conclusive evidence to 
show that the overall treatment costs wouldve been any different if Red Sands had accepted 
the claim earlier  surgery would always have been needed. So he thought Red Sands had 
acted reasonably by accepting the claim and paying out in accordance with the policy terms.
But the investigator also said Mr F was charged an emergency consultation fee of £66.14, 
which wouldnt have been payable if Red Sands had accepted the original claim. So he said 
that Red Sands should refund this fee, with interest, back to Mr F. He also said that the 
trouble and upset Mr F suffered was significantly higher by finding his dog paralysed, than it 
otherwise wouldve been. So he thought that Red Sands should also pay him £500 to 
compensate him for this.
Red Sands didnt agree with the investigator. They agreed they should pay the £66.14 plus 
interest. But they thought that the dogs condition wouldve required the same treatment 
whether this was done earlier or not. So they didnt think their actions had contributed to the 
dogs worsening condition, and they didnt think that they should pay the £500.
Mr F also didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, if the CT scan had been done when 
it was originally requested, he wouldve treated his dog like glass. Instead we allowed [her] 
to go on long walks, jump up onto the furniture and runs up and down the stairs as she 
would normally. Should we have known [she] was suffering in pain  we would NOT have 
allowed her to do this.
Mr F also said that, if the dog had been treated with rest then she may not have needed 
surgery. And the recovery from the surgery is significantly longer because of the delay in 
treatment caused by Red Sands. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
In their complaint response letter of 13 July 2020, Red Sands agreed there was insufficient 
evidence to link the dogs current problems with a previous claim back in 2018. Because of 
this, they agreed to overturn their initial decision to decline the CT scan and subsequent 
treatment claim. But they also argued the claims for x-rays were correctly declined based on 
the information available to them at the time. 
Their Terms and Conditions say that if requested by [Red Sands], the vet attending your pet 
or the usual or previous vet must, at your expense, provide [Red Sands] with all the 
information about your pet, including its full medical history, its treatment and any other 
information [Red Sands] may require. They also stated that cover is provided for up to 365 
days only from the date of occurrence, up to the amount specified in your policy limit.
Red Sands have said that the dogs full clinical history wasnt submitted with the x-ray 
claims, and it wasnt until they received this that they were able to agree the claim for a CT 
scan. So they dont think they acted unreasonably by initially declining the x-ray claims.
Red Sands declined the first claim, for the pre-authorisation of the x-ray costs, on 23 March 
2020. They explained that, because the dog has previously been treated for back pain in 
February 2018, more than 365 days had passed since the onset of the dogs condition. So 
the claim fell outside of the terms of the policy. Ive not seen that any medical history was 
submitted with this claim or requested by Red Sands.
A second claim was made for the costs of the x-rays on 8 April 2020. And Ive seen that a 
medical history from 3 December 2018 was supplied with this claim. Red Sands declined 
this claim on 13 April 2020 for the same reason as the first claim  it was more than 365 
days since the onset of the dogs condition.But Ive also seen that, when Mr A asked Red Sands for a copy of his dogs medical history 
on 16 April 2020, they supplied him with a full medical history going back to 21 December 
2015. Which included details of a vets diagnosis of back pain refuses to bend over to drunk 
really really sore back in February 2018. So Red Sands were in possession of the dogs full 
medical history when they declined both of the x-ray claims.
And, on 24 April 2020, the vet sent Red Sands an email stating that the dogs condition is 
not connected to previous one according to my knowledge. Previous issue was muscular 
and this one is underlying in lumbo sacral spinal collum [sic] and most likely neurological.
So, while Red Sands declined the x-ray clams given the information they had at the time; 
based on the above, Im satisfied they had sufficient information by late April 2020 to agree 
the claim for a CT scan. Which they didnt do until 13 July 2020. And, as the dog underwent 
emergency surgery on 30 June 2020, Red Sands are responsible for a delay of just over 2-
months before the dogs condition was treated.
The policy Mr F had with Red Sands had an annual condition limit of £2,000, and an annual 
policy limit (for all conditions) of £7,000. There was also a policy excess of £99 per condition 
per policy year. And Red Sands have now paid out to this policy limit. However, this isnt 
sufficient to cover the surgery the dog needed, or to cover its ongoing recovery treatment.
Mr F says that, had Red Sands dealt with the claim sooner, then his dogs condition couldve 
been treated with rest; that he wouldve enforced this rest by not letting the dog go on long 
walks, climb stairs etc.; and that the treatment costs wouldve been substantially reduced as 
a result. But hes also said that his dog has IVDD  intervertebral disc disease. And Ive 
noted that this is an age-related degenerative condition. So I think that surgery would always 
likely have been needed.
Both of the vets who treated the dog have been spoken to about the dogs condition and 
what couldve happened if the treatment had taken place sooner. And neither vet has said 
that surgery couldve been avoided entirely if the dog had been treated in mid-April 2020 
instead of late June 2020. And Ive seen no clinical evidence to show that the outcome 
wouldve been any different if the treatment had happened earlier.
So, Ive seen nothing to show me that the treatments costs in June 2020 were any less than 
they wouldve been in April 2020. The cost of the CT scan was almost £2,000 which, when 
added to the x-ray costs, wouldve taken the claim above the policy limit. So, even if Red 
Sands had approved the claim earlier, the total diagnostic costs wouldve left nothing 
available for any surgery and/or further treatment. So I wont be asking Red Sands to pay 
the cost of treatment above the policy limits, nor will I be asking them to pay for any ongoing 
treatment that wouldnt be covered in the policy Mr F had with them.
But Mr F had to pay an additional £66.14 for emergency treatment, that would otherwise 
have been avoided had Red Sands approved the claim in April 2020. So its only fair that 
they reimburse Mr F with these costs, plus interest.
Turning now to the recommended £500 for the trouble and upset Mr F suffered. Red Sands 
dont believe their actions lead to a worsening of the dogs condition, and I think thats the 
case. But Mr F had to watch his dog suffer on a daily basis for 2-months longer than was 
necessary. And the fact the he woke up one morning to find his dog paralysed wouldve 
come as a great shock to him  and I think this most likely wouldnt have happened if the 
claim had been approved earlier. For these reasons I agree with the investigator that Mr F suffered a substantial amount of 
additional trouble and upset as a result of Red Sands actions. And I consider the 
recommended £500 to be reasonable compensation for this. So Im satisfied that, given the 
circumstances, Red Sands should pay this compensation.
Putting things right
 Red Sands should:
Reimburse Mr A the £66.14 emergency treatment fee he paid, plus 8% simple yearly 
interest from the date he made the payment to the date of the refund.
Pay Mr A an additional £500 for the additional trouble and upset their actions caused 
him.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above uphold Mr Fs complaint. Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman