DRN-3034126
The complaint
Mr N complains that British Gas Insurance Limited provided a poor standard of service when 
he claimed under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Ns boiler stopped working in March 2021. This left him and his family without heating or 
hot water. He contacted British Gas and it arranged for an engineer to visit two days later. 
Unfortunately, the company couldnt fulfil this appointment and it called to cancel. It offered a 
later appointment, which was not for over three weeks later. 
Mr N wasnt happy with the situation, and British Gas suggested he arrange for his own 
engineer to attend. It would then refund the cost. Mr N was able to arrange for an engineer 
to visit on the same day the companys engineer was first due to attend. The boiler was fixed 
at this appointment. 
Mr N contacted British Gas and it refunded the cost of the work. The company provided a 
payment for £50, which was £40 for the engineers visit and £10 in compensation along with 
an apology.
Mr N is unhappy that British Gas was unable to fulfil the first appointment. He believes the 
company has let him down, having paid his premiums for three years. Because of this he 
cancelled his policy and sought cover elsewhere. Mr N wants the company to increase the 
compensation payment for the poor service he received. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
She found British Gas had behaved reasonably when it was unable to fulfil the original 
appointment. Although some inconvenience was experienced by Mr N she didnt think the 
company had acted unfairly. 
Mr N disagreed and requested that an ombudsman look at this again. The complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
When British Gas realised it couldnt meet the first appointment it had offered, the next 
available date wasnt for three weeks. Clearly this is a long time to wait. Especially, when Mr 
N and his family would be without heating or hot water. I can understand why he was 
disappointed. The expectation here is that a home emergency policy allows for a swift 
resolution when things like this, go wrong.
That said, British Gas did explain to Mr N that he could arrange for his own engineer to fix 
the boiler, and it would refund the charges. I understand Mr N felt he shouldnt have had to 
make these arrangements. This is why he had taken out the policy. However, fortunately, he 
managed to arrange for a local engineer to fix the boiler on the date British Gas had 
originally agreed to attend.    
I have looked through Mr Ns policy terms to understand what is expected when an engineer 
appointment is needed. On page 28 under the section entitled Visiting You and 
Reasonable Timescales it says:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
I think its fair to say the first appointment was due to take place within a reasonable 
timeframe. It is unfortunate this couldnt be met, but British Gas was quick to let Mr N know. 
Then because an earlier appointment wasnt available, it offered him the option of using his 
own engineer. I think this shows it acted reasonably and in-line with the policy terms.    
I have thought about the impact this issue caused Mr N and his family. Some inconvenience 
was caused when he had to arrange the engineers visit. I also note Mr Ns comments that 
he had wasted money paying premiums to British Gas. 
However, the boiler was fixed on the same day the British Gas engineer was due to attend. 
As above some inconvenience was caused, but Mr N has received an apology and £10 
compensation for this, which I think is fair. Mr N has benefitted from cover being in place. 
The company paid for the cost of the boiler being fixed. So, although I understand his 
frustration, I dont think his comments justify an increased compensation payment.
In summary I think British Gas acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Ns complaint, and in 
providing an apology and compensation. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman