DRN-2718077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse them for 
online transfers they made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs S says that while overseas her brother (Mr A) met a woman and struck up a close 
friendship with her. The woman told him that her uncle was an analyst and that he passed 
her information which allowed her to trade commodities and make significant profits.
The woman used an online trading platform (X). Mrs Ss brother watched her trade for a few 
days  during which time she profited. She asked Mr A if he would like to also benefit from 
her uncles knowledge and do his own trading.
Mr A used a small amount of money to set up an account with X. He followed the advice he 
was given and made some trades which resulted in a small profit each and every time  
building his confidence.
Mr As friend told him that her uncle was so clever, that she had not lost money in over a 
year and had a 99% success rate. She suggested that Mr A put more money into his 
account with X so he could make larger trades. At this point Mr A asked Mrs S to join him 
and invest her own funds.
Between January 2019 and 20 May 2019, Mr and Mrs S sent six international payments to 
two accounts held overseas. All of these funds were sent for Mr A to use in trades, with the 
expectation that Mr and Mrs S would receive profit from those trades. The payments totalled 
just over £25,600.
Mr As account with X became depleted after a bad trade. But Mr As friend offered to put up 
$10,000, if Mr A did the same to try and recover the losses with further trades  which Mr A 
did. After the funds in the account with X had been built back up following successful trades, 
Mr A tried to withdraw the funds. But there was a hold up on the withdrawal being processed 
and in the meantime the account suffered a massive loss on a trade and Mr As account with 
X became overdrawn. At which point Mr A was told that he needed to repay the outstanding 
debit balance with X, which was in excess of $15,000.
 
As a result, Mr and Mrs S didnt receive any of the funds theyd transferred back, or any 
profit from any of the trades.
Some months later Mrs S met a friend who said theyd been subject to a similar scam. So, 
Mr and Mrs S contacted HSBC, asking them to refund all six transfers theyd made.
HSBC considered Mr and Mrs Ss fraud claim but declined to refund them for any of the 
transfers. 
HSBC say the transfers Mr and Mrs S made arent covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM), as the transfers were made to an international bank. And that 
even though they contacted the bank that received the funds, as its outside the UK its not 
obliged to respond or to refund any funds. 
In response, Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint with HSBC. Having reviewed the complaint, 
HSBC acknowledged that the service Mr and Mrs S received was poor when they first 
contacted HSBC and paid them £50 in recognition of that. But they still declined to refund 
any of the funds Mr and Mrs S had transferred.
As Mr and Mrs S werent happy with HSBCs response, they brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, they 
felt the transfers werent particularly unusual or out of character, therefore they didnt think 
HSBC shouldve identified them as potentially suspicious or prevented them. And that once 
HSBC was made aware of the scam, they had contacted the receiving bank but no funds 
could be recovered. The investigator highlighted that as the funds were sent to bank 
accounts outside of the UK, the same rules cant be applied as they would be to a UK based 
bank.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
They felt HSBC had fobbed them off when they first called to report the scam.
They shouldve been warned they were potentially the victims of a scam. The size of 
the payments did make them unusual, along with the fact that they were being sent 
to international accounts. Other payments theyve made, some of which were smaller 
than these payments, were flagged as potentially suspicious  so why not these 
ones. 
They feel HSBC should be doing more to warn customers about scams.
Mr and Mrs S asked for the case to be reviewed, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs S with regards to the transfers, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
should HSBC have done more to prevent the transfers
The transfers were made between January 2019 and 20 May 2019, with days or weeks 
between the payments. The largest individual transfer was for just over £8,000, which was 
the last transfer they made.  
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ss account, Im not persuaded that the transfers theyre asking 
to be refunded were significantly different to other transactions theyd completed on their 
account previously. Ive included some of the other payments from the same account that 
support this and have highlighted in bold the disputed transactions. 
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
5.1.2018 Bill payment to W £  3,000.00
9.2.2018 Internal transfer to account £10,000.00 cr
15.2.2018 International payment to Mr and Mrs S £10,000.00
10.8.2018 Internal transfer to account £  5,496.73 cr
13.8.2018 International payment to Mr and Mrs S £11,500.00
22.1.2019 Credit from A £     800.00 cr
22.1.2019 International payment to C £     800.00
14.3.2019 Credit from A £  3,800.00 cr
14.3.2019 Credit from A £     100.00 cr
14.3.2019 International payment to G £  3,873.97
21.3.2019 Credit from A £  1,050.00 cr
22.3.2019 International payment to G £  1,030.24
27.3.2019 Credit from P £  3,250.00 cr
29.3.2019 International payment to G £  3,934.82
17.4.2019 Bill payment to L £  2,500.00
25.4.2019 Credit from A £  3,800.00 cr
26.4.2019 International payment to G £  7,957.64
20.5.2019 International payment to G £  8,072.66
As the table shows Mr and Mrs S had previously made international transfers albeit to an 
account held in their name, they had made payments from the account for the same size or 
larger than the transfers theyve asked to be refunded, and theyd funded their account prior 
to making larger payments previously. Considering the transfers against the prior use of the 
account, Im not satisfied that the transfers are particularly unusual or out of character.Mr and Mrs S raised concerns about other payments from the same account having been 
flagged as suspicious by HSBC and that HSBC was not doing enough to warn them about 
potentially being a victim of a scam. But, while other payments might have flagged as 
suspicious and may even have been for smaller amounts, that doesnt necessarily mean that 
the transfers at the centre of this complaint should have flagged. 
There are several different reasons that a payment or transaction may be flagged as 
suspicious. And there has to be a balance struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. Also, industry practice and guidelines 
about how and when banks must warn customers about scams when making payments, has 
changed since Mr and Mrs S made these transfers. 
In looking at Mr and Mrs Ss case, I have to take into account what the industry guidelines, 
best practice and regulations were at the time they made the transfers  not what may now 
be in place. Although I appreciate that this may be frustrating for Mr and Mrs S.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly say that there was enough about these transfers that 
made them appear so unusual or out of character compared to previous account use, that I 
wouldve expected them to flag to HSBCs attention. Therefore, Im persuaded that HSBCs 
actions to process the transfers in the line with the account mandate and its obligations 
under the PSRs were reasonable in the circumstances. And I wont be asking HSBC to 
refund the transfers.
could HSBC have retrieved the funds
Ive also considered whether HSBC couldve recovered Mr and Mrs Ss funds, once they 
were made aware of the scam.
Unfortunately, in this situation Mr and Mrs S sent their funds to accounts held in another 
country. This means the bank receiving the funds is not bound by UK laws, rules and 
regulations. And as HSBC explained, they can contact the receiving bank requesting the 
funds back, but the receiving bank is not obliged or required to either return any funds 
remaining in the accounts, or even respond to HSBCs contact  which is what has 
happened in this case.
Also, Mr and Mrs S didnt report the scam to HSBC until a year after the last transfer was 
made. Its extremely unlikely that any funds would remain in the account at that point in time. 
Usually a scammer will remove all of the funds from the account as quickly as possible, to 
prevent the bank potentially blocking the account or funds once made aware of a fraud 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S raised a point that while their funds mayve been removed from the receiving 
bank accounts, there was likely to be funds in the account from other victims who made 
payments after theirs. But Mr and Mrs S would only be entitled to funds in the account at the 
point they made a fraud claim. So, any withdrawals made after their funds credited the 
accounts, would be deducted from the funds recoverable for them  whether or not any later 
credits were received into the same account. 
But regardless, as the funds were paid to an international account held outside of the UK, Mr 
and Mrs S are only entitled to funds if the receiving bank remits them to HSBC  which they 
havent done in this case.Mr and Mrs S also felt they shouldve received their funds back under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which came into effect on 28 May 2019. While HSBC is 
signed up to the CRM Code, this only covers payments made after 28 May 2019 and is not 
applied retrospectively  which means none of Mr and Mrs Ss transfers are covered by the 
CRM Code. Besides which, payments made to banks outside of the UK are not covered by 
the Code either. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did what it shouldve in trying to 
recover the funds for Mr and Mrs S. But as no funds were returned by the receiving bank, I 
cant fairly ask HSBC to refund Mr and Mrs S.
the level of service Mr and Mrs S received
HSBC have already acknowledged that the level of service Mr and Mrs S received when  
Mrs S first rang to report the fraud, was poor. Unfortunately, that doesnt mean Mr and Mrs S 
are entitled to a refund of their transfers. Based on what Ive seen, the £50 already offered 
by HSBC is a fair award in the circumstances for the level of service Mr and Mrs S received, 
so I wont be asking HSBC to pay anything further. 
I appreciate that this has been extremely distressing for Mr and Mrs S and that theyve lost a 
lot of money, due to the actions of a scammer. But in the circumstances of this case, for the 
reasons already given, I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman