DRN-3051599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that U K Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Insurance, has 
declined their claim for legal expenses. They wanted to pursue legal action against 
Churchill itself and a company it appointed which Ill call C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have legal expenses cover as part of their Churchill home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs A made a claim for assistance regarding a dispute with Churchill and C following 
claims under the home emergency and home sections of cover for a burst pipe which 
occurred two days before. Mr and Mrs A wanted to take legal action for delays in sorting out 
the problem. At the time of making the claim they had no electricity or hot water.
Churchill declined their claim. It said that as their claim was about the handling of their home 
insurance claim it wasnt covered as there was an exclusion regarding claims arising from 
any dispute about this insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs A explained that they were unhappy with the decision and that they had a 
separate contract with C. Their home emergency cover only provided £500 of cover. As the 
work that needed to be carried out exceeded a cost of £500, they had paid C £165.
In response, Churchill explained that C is a supplier for Churchill and their contact is with 
Churchill. It acknowledged that Mr and Mrs A had said they had paid £165 to C and so this 
would be considered a contact. However, as C had refunded this amount to them there was 
no financial loss.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Mr and Mrs A 
could make a claim against Churchill because of the exclusion of such claims. Regarding the 
claim against C the investigator thought that for the initial work C was acting on behalf of 
Churchill and so the exclusion applied. After Mr and Mrs A paid C directly she didnt think 
Mr and Mrs A had provided details of any loss relating to this. But if they provided details of 
that to Churchill then it should review and consider whether there was a valid claim.
Mr and Mrs A have asked for an ombudsmans decision as they dont think the exclusion 
Churchill has relied upon is fair. The cover they have is called Family Legal Protection it is 
not called Churchill or C protection and therefore it is not fair to apply the exclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have made more than one complaint about their home insurance policy with 
Churchill and so I wish to make it clear that this decision only concerns their complaint about 
the Family Legal Protection Cover part of that policy.
I also want to say that I appreciate that it must have been very difficult to be without 
electricity and water particularly given one of the household was pregnant, another member 
was elderly, and the country was in lockdown.
I can see why Mr and Mrs A might have turned to their legal protection cover for help given 
the difficult situation they found themselves in. The policy states that in the case of some 
types of contract disputes it will provide cover. It goes on to explain which types of contracts 
are included and this includes the buying or hiring of goods or services. The policy, however, 
excludes any cover for claims arising from or relating to any dispute with us about this 
insurance policy. And us is defined as U K Insurance Limited. It isnt entirely clear what 
legal action Mr and Mrs A wanted to take but the wording of the exclusion clause means that 
there wasnt cover for Mr and Mrs A to take action against U K Insurance Limited (trading 
as Churchill) regarding the policy. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A think it is unfair to apply the 
exclusion but its for the insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover and as the exclusion is 
clearly set out in the policy, I dont think its unfair of it to rely on it in this case.
Mr and Mrs A have said that they wanted to take action against C as well and as C and U K 
Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) are not the same legal entity then the exclusion 
doesnt apply.
In the context of this insurance policy C is an authorised repairer - A person, company or 
organisation appointed by [Churchill] to carry out a temporary or permanent emergency 
repair, or prevent further damage. 
The policy itself specifically considers a scenario where a contract arises between the 
authorised repairer and Mr and Mrs A when it says: If something happens thats not an 
emergency under this policy we can arrange for an authorised repairer to call at your home. 
You will have to pay any costs and the contract will be between you and the repairer.
Mr and Mrs A paid C £165. After becoming aware of this Churchill wrote to Mr and Mrs A 
and said:
As you paid a sum of money to [C] directly for their services this would be considered a 
contract that could be covered under the legal expenses policy, however I can see that [C] 
have since reimbursed you the £165 and so there is no financial loss. If you believe there 
has been a financial loss with [C] that you feel we should consider, please let us know.
Churchill later said:
Therefore, we would only be able to assist if you had a contract with [C] for buying or hiring 
goods or services, which you have not shown us you have.
I agree with Churchill when it said that there was a contract with C. I think it is arguable that 
this contract still relates to the insurance contract and so is excluded but as Churchill has 
offered to look at any losses this isnt something I need to decide because Churchill has 
already agreed to look at any losses relating to this contract.
From the evidence Ive seen the contract between Mr and Mrs A with C appears to have 
been for the supply of parts and when these werent needed the money paid for them was 
reimbursed two weeks later. So, its not likely there was a loss arising from the contract. Mr A has mentioned he needed to borrow the £165 from a friend but there is no evidence he 
had to pay interest and even if he did that isnt a loss arising from the contract. 
Again, from the evidence Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs As problem with C arises from the 
work it carried out whilst acting as Churchills authorised repairer. When C was acting in this 
capacity there was no contract between Mr and Mrs A and C. The contracts were between 
Mr and Mrs A and Churchill and between Churchill and C. As these works were carried out 
as a result of the insurance contract between Mr and Mrs A and Churchill then they would be 
excluded from the cover as they relate to a dispute between Mr and Mrs A and Churchill (as 
C was acting as Cs authorised representative and not as a party in its own right).
Taking all this together, I have seen no evidence that Churchill has acted unfairly with 
regards to the Family Legal Protection part of the insurance contract. I will leave it to Mr and 
Mrs A to decide if they wish to provide Churchill with any evidence of a loss arising out of the 
contract, they had with C which resulted in them paying £165 (which was later reimbursed). 
If they do provide evidence of a loss arising from that contract Churchill can then consider 
whether the claim is covered.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman