DRN-3077780
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the redress offered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, referred to 
as RBS, after a proactive internal review in which it found the advice given to her was 
unsuitable. 
 
What happened
In 2013, Mrs N and her husband were advised to invest in a Standard Life Wrap Portfolio, 
and a Standard Life ISA. 
Mrs Ns husband had received a lump sum payment after he was medically retired due to a 
terminal illness in 2013. Sadly, he passed away in 2014, before the investment was finalised, 
but Mrs N went ahead with the recommendation in due course. 
In 2018, RBS notified Mrs N that the recommendation was unsuitable. It offered redress on 
the basis that Mrs N shouldnt have been advised to invest following the death of her 
husband. It offered to refund £500 (with interest) she paid towards the cost for the advice, it 
also offered to pay another £500 (plus VAT) paid towards the cost of any new advice she 
sought.   
Mrs N rejected RBSs offer and in due course complained on the basis that she was 
promised ongoing reviews that she didnt receive. She was also unhappy that shed paid 
£2,500 for the unsuitable advice, and reviews that she didnt receive.    
RBS didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that its proposed redress was fair and 
reasonable. The fee paid was for the advice, set up and management of the investment, and 
not for the reviews. Unhappy with RBSs findings Mrs N referred the complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
RBS was correct to find that the recommendation made at the time was unsuitable, 
however, its proposed redress was unreasonable. 
Mrs N should be awarded redress based on her being willing to take a low risk with 
her money, even though the recommendation by RBS was unsuitable. 
In other words, Mrs N should be paid redress based on the 50/50 benchmark, 
because she was willing to take some risk with her money given her improved 
financial circumstances, following the death of her husband. 
Based on the original documentation  which suggests that she was willing to take a 
risk with her money  it wouldve been unsuitable to advise her to hold her money on 
deposit, as suggested RBS.  
Mrs N should be refunded the advice and set up fees  in the sum of £2,500  with 
8% simple interest. 
RBS should also Pay Mrs N £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
RBS disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
Given the loss of Mrs Ns husband at a relatively young age, and its consideration of 
her vulnerability, she shouldnt have been advised to invest. It wasnt the right time 
to invest the money that came from her late husbands pension pot. In other words, 
Mrs N shouldve been advised to keep her money on deposit. 
Its offer to pay £500 (with interest) for the advice she received is fair and reasonable, 
given that it was the cost of the advice. 
The £2,000 balance was the cost of setting up and managing the investment which 
grew far more than if the money had been placed in a deposit account, therefore Mrs 
N isnt entitled to this money back. 
In additional to what its offered, it also agreed to pay £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
One of our investigators having considered the additional points, in summary said:
Hes satisfied that Mrs N was willing to take a low risk with her money, therefore the 
50/50 benchmark should be used to calculate redress.
Mrs N (and her husband) didnt proceed with the advice in 2013, probably because 
he wasnt well and therefore it wasnt a good time to invest. 
In 2014, Mrs N was in good position to invest, several months after her husband 
sadly passed away. 
It was recorded in the objectives that Mrs N held a large cash deposit with RBS (for 
over 18 months) and wanted to invest some of this for medium term growth. She also 
wanted to earmark some of this capital for future benefit and security. 
In the circumstances, RBS isnt obliged to pay towards the cost of Mrs N obtaining 
future financial advice. However, it should refund the £2,500 paid towards advice, set 
up and management of the unsuitable investment, with 8% simple interest. 
Having considered the notes referred to by RBS  from its proactive review outcome 
database  hes satisfied the initial recommendation was unsuitable based on the 
mixture of assets that Mrs N was advised to invest in. In other words, even though 
Mrs N was prepared to take a risk, the initial recommendation was too risky, and Mrs 
N was unlikely to have understood the risks involved. 
RBS disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
maintains that its offer of redress is fair and reasonable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest conclusion for much the same reasons. 
Im going to uphold this complaint. 
In this instance, because RBS has already deemed the recommendation unsuitable, the key 
issue for me to consider is redress and whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what RBS says, Im 
not persuaded that its proposed redress is fair and reasonable. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs N was willing to take a low risk with her 
investments in order to achieve a gain, therefore I think redress should be based on the 
50/50 benchmark as recommended by the investigator.  
I also think that Mrs N should be refunded the £2,500 she paid separately for the advice, set 
up and maintenance of the investment, with 8% simple interest. In the circumstances, I dont 
think RBS needs to cover the cost of any future advice that Mrs N might wish to obtain. 
I also think the investigators recommendation to pay Mrs N £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In my opinion, the vulnerability issue resulting from the death of Mrs Ns husband - that 
RBS refers to and seeks to rely upon in order to principally justify its redress methodology is 
but only one issue that should be considered and there are other key issues that need to be 
taken into account in reaching a fair and reasonable resolution in this complaint. 
In some cases, the advice to invest  soon after the death of a partner or loved one  might 
be deemed unsuitable because of its timing, however I dont think this is a material issue in 
this case such as to justify RBSs proposed redress.
I note in this instance Mrs N (and her husband) initially received financial advice in 2013. 
Based on previous documentation, Im satisfied that Mrs N was willing to take a risk with the 
investment, notwithstanding RBSs subsequent review and finding regarding suitability. I also 
note that in reference to 2013, Mrs N said that she and her husband werent getting any 
interest  on their money that was held in a deposit account at the time  and wanted to put 
it somewhere theyd get a return, which again suggests that Mrs N was prepared to take a 
risk. 
Im also mindful that Mrs Ns husband was terminally ill in 2013, but this fact was well-known 
and documented at the time. Notwithstanding his health situation and concerns surrounding 
it, they were still prepared to take a risk with the investment. I note it wasnt until 2014  and 
several months after the death of her husband  that Mrs N decided to go forward with the 
recommendation to invest. I note she was still willing to take a risk and I think she was in a 
good position to do so at that time. 
In my opinion, Mrs Ns situation is therefore materially different to a customer being 
approached by a bank out of the blue, a short time after the death of a partner or a loved 
one, where there might be some concern over timing and vulnerability. Even then, the 
suitability of the advice will depend on the individual facts of each case. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded that Mrs Ns personal financial 
situation was stronger following the death of her husband. I note that she was still employed 
and even planned to work part time after retirement. She also had no outstanding debts or 
financial dependents and had access to a reasonable sum of money for emergencies. 
I also note that Mrs H didnt have anything specific that she was saving for, and she also had 
no specific need for an income. In other words, it seems to me that notwithstanding the 
death of her husband, she was happy and willing to take a small risk with her money and 
was in a good position to do so.     
  
I appreciate the point that RBS makes about this case  arising out of a proactive internal 
review and not arising out of a complaint from Mrs N  but in my opinion thats material to 
whether (or not) she knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that she had cause for 
complaint at the time. Its not a reason to not try and find a fair and reasonable resolution. Im aware that the issue of ongoing reviews is an important point for Mrs N. But despite what 
she says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that she and her husband were told that theyd 
receive regular ongoing reviews. Whilst Ive no doubt that Mrs N believes what she thinks 
she and her husband were told, Ive no persuasive evidence to support this.  
I also appreciate the point Mrs N makes about her lack of investment experience, and her 
inability to conduct reviews herself. But because Im upholding the complaint and asking 
RBS to pay redress  on the basis that she was willing to take a low risk  I dont think this 
issue materially effects what I think the business should do to put things right. 
In terms of fees, I dont think the investigators recommendation to refund the £2,500 fees 
paid with 8% simple interest is unreasonable in the circumstances. In this instance Im not 
persuaded by RBSs reasons to only pay £500 plus interest towards the cost of the overall 
fees. However, like the investigator, in the circumstances I dont think RBS needs to pay 
towards the cost of any future advice. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I also think the offer to pay an additional £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. Im mindful that 
Mrs N has also been paid £100 for the delays in dealing with her complaint, which is 
separate to the £200 that Ive recommended RBS pay.  
Putting things right
To put things right, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should do the following. 
1. Calculate redress for the Standard Life Wrap ISA and the Standard Life Wrap 
Personal Portfolio using the 50/50 benchmark  namely for half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average 
rate from fixed rate bonds  with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. 
2. Refund the advice, set up and management fees  in the sum of £2,500  with 8% 
simple interest. 
3. Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should calculate and pay redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman