DRN-3877538
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to respond to letters from 
his solicitors. He says this affected his ability to challenge the misappropriation of his funds 
by a third party.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with RBS. In 2021, he paid funds from that account into a wallet he 
held with a third party which Ill call B. He says that the funds were loaded to the wallet but 
were then fraudulently transferred to a separate account. He asked RBS to recover the 
money through a chargeback claim but RBS said a chargeback wasnt possible. Mr B 
complained, but RBS said it hadnt done anything wrong and maintained that it had no basis 
on which to pursue a refund under the chargeback rules. 
Mr B then engaged solicitors, who wrote to RBS on three occasions during 2021. RBS didnt 
respond to or acknowledge the letters. Mr B says that this prevented him from raising a 
complaint with this service about the chargeback issue and affected his ability to challenge 
the misappropriation of his funds. He raised a new complaint in 2022 about RBSs failure to 
respond to the solicitors letters. That is the complaint being considered here.
RBS said it had no record of receiving the letters. It said the last contact it had with Mr B was 
its final response to the original complaint. It asked Mr B to provide evidence showing where 
the letters had been delivered. 
Mr B provided tracking details. But RBS said it didnt have the letters, so couldnt respond to 
the points raised within them. It said that the PO Box number on the letters was wrong, 
meaning they were less likely to have been received at the correct office. There was also an 
issue over which team within RBS was dealing with the matter. Mr Bs solicitors had written 
to the Financial Health & Support Team. But RBS said it was the Fraud and Chargebacks 
Complaints team which was dealing with the matter.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with RBSs response and was unhappy about certain statements 
included in its final response letter. He referred the complaint to this service. He said the 
whole situation had caused him considerable distress and inconvenience. He would like 
RBS to pay his legal fees and reimburse the money he paid to B. He would also like it to 
apologise and pay him some compensation.
During the investigation by this service, RBS offered £50 as compensation for potentially 
failing to acknowledge the letters, which it said may have been lost in transit. It said that Mr 
B hadnt raised the complaint until around nine months after the last letter had been sent, 
which had affected its ability to conduct a reasonable search for the letters or respond to 
them. Our Investigator thought that RBS offer was fair. But Mr B didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been referred to me to review.
As our Investigator explained, Im not making a decision about Mr Bs payments to B or the 
chargeback request. Im only looking at the lack of response by RBS to the letters sent by Mr 
Bs solicitors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs solicitors wrote three letters to RBS  two in October 2021 and one in November 
2021. The content of both October letters was the same, but they were sent to different 
addresses. The first letter was addressed to RBS but didnt specify a particular team. It was 
sent to a street address. The second letter was addressed to the Financial Health & Support 
Team of RBS and sent to a PO Box number. The November letter was also sent to the 
Financial Health & Support Team at the PO Box number. This letter was simply chasing a 
response to the October letter and enclosed a further copy of it. So, I find that three copies of 
the same letter were sent to RBS at two different addresses.
The PO box number on the letters was wrong. But I dont think that necessarily means they 
didnt arrive. RBS accepts this, but says it reduced the likelihood of them being received in 
the correct office. I think thats a fair comment. But Mr B has provided tracking information 
for these letters. There is no tracking information available for the first letter sent in October. 
But that doesnt mean it wasnt received. 
RBS says its the Fraud and Chargebacks Complaints Team which would have needed to 
deal with the letters. But I think it was reasonable that some were addressed to the Financial 
Health & Support Team. Thats because Mr Bs previous contact with RBS about the issue 
had been from that team. I note that the first letter from Mr Bs solicitors wasnt addressed to 
any particular department. But I think its reasonable to expect that it would be passed on to 
the relevant team once received by RBS.
I can understand that there might be a delay in responding while letters are passed on to the 
appropriate department. But the issue here is that there was no response at all to any of the 
letters.
Mr B wants an explanation of why RBS didnt respond. RBS says it has no record of 
receiving the letters, so thats why it didnt respond. I find it unlikely that none of the letters 
were received by RBS. But I dont doubt RBS when it says it has no record of them. It seems 
that for some reason the letters werent actioned or logged successfully. I dont know the 
reason for that. But I can understand that its very unsatisfactory from Mr Bs point of view.
Mr B says that RBSs failure to respond to the letters affected his ability to bring the 
chargeback complaint to this service or challenge the misappropriation of his funds. I know 
Mr B feels strongly about this. But Im afraid I dont think RBSs lack of response prevented 
him from pursuing the chargeback complaint or otherwise pursuing recovery of his money.
RBSs final response to the chargeback complaint made it clear that there was a time limit 
for referring the complaint to this service. The deadline was in October 2021 and the details 
have already been considered by this service and communicated to the parties under a 
separate reference. I find that RBS wouldnt have received the second or third letters from 
Mr Bs solicitors before that deadline. The first letter would have been received very close to 
the deadline  if it was received - and I think its unlikely Mr B would have received any reply 
in time, even if RBS had responded. In any event, Mr B could have referred the complaint to 
this service in addition to or instead of instructing solicitors. So, I dont think the lack of 
response by RBS prevented him from pursuing that complaint. I havent seen anything to suggest that RBSs lack of response prevented Mr B from 
pursuing other avenues either. So I dont find that it stopped him from challenging the 
misappropriation of funds which he alleges.
In any event, RBS has said that it will now respond to the letters. Mr B said he wanted a full 
and detailed response to them as part of the resolution to this complaint. I think thats 
reasonable, as the issue here is the lack of response to the letters. 
Copies of the letters have been sent to RBS and it has confirmed receipt. It says that the 
Fraud and Chargebacks Complaints Team remains the most suitable department to 
respond. RBS has confirmed that the letters are being looked at as a complaint, which is 
currently being investigated and a response is expected imminently. RBS has agreed to 
send the response to Mr B direct. I think thats reasonable, so Im not going to ask RBS to do 
any more on that front.
Mr B raised concerns about some of the wording in RBSs response to his complaint. I note 
that RBS apologised for the distress this caused and said that Mr Bs comments had been 
passed to the relevant department so that the wording could be reviewed. I think thats 
reasonable, so Im not going to ask RBS to do anything more about that.
But I think RBS needs to pay some compensation to Mr B. As I said above, I think its likely 
that some - if not all - of the letters were received within RBS. So I think something went 
wrong because they werent acknowledged. That was distressing for Mr B and put him to 
some inconvenience. But I think that has to be balanced against the fact that Mr B didnt 
raise the issue with RBS until August 2022. I think that suggests the impact of the non-
response was not severe. The long timescale also affected RBSs ability to search for the 
letters or request further copies and provide a timely response.
In the circumstances, I think £50 would be a fair amount of compensation. RBS has already 
offered this, but I dont think it has been paid so far. So, Im going to direct RBS to do so.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, and I sympathise with his situation. But, as Ive explained, Im 
not looking at the payments to B here. So Im not going to ask RBS to refund them or pay Mr 
Bs legal fees for pursuing recovery of those sums. 
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer of £50 to settle this complaint 
and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay £50 to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman