DRN-1495070
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way he was treated over a telephone conversation with National 
Savings and Investments (the business). 
He says the call handler didnt deal with his call or concerns in a professional manner. And 
that Mr H wasted his time trying to send a fax to a number that didnt work. 
 
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 3 July 
2019, it said:
 
There were no operational fax machines used by the business.
The telephone call Mr H had with an adviser (dated 20 June 2019) was recorded as 
per its automated recorded message, played before the call was transferred to an 
adviser. 
It didnt feel that the adviser acted unprofessionally.
 
Mr H is still unhappy about the way he was treated during the call with the business. He says 
he received a letter dated 2 July 2019 (concerning other matters) that included a fax number 
which was clearly at odds with what he was told by the business. 
He wrote to the business on 5 July 2019 expressing his concerns, and again on 16 July 
2019 chasing up the matter.
The business wrote back to Mr H dated 23 July 2019, apologising for the inconsistency. It 
said that it didnt use fax to communicate with its customers and that the fax number 
displayed on its letter to Mr H dated 5 July ought not to have displayed a fax number. 
  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
 
Having listened to the call he notes the following conversation:
oMr H asked if the business had a fax number to which the adviser replied it 
did not. Mr H then asked if there were any operational fax machines at the 
business. Because the adviser was unable to provide a definitive answer Mr H asked if they knew who was the head of the customer care team and in 
response he was given the name of the customer services manager and 
contact details as requested.
oMr H then expressed dissatisfaction with the call and asked if it was being 
recorded. Upon being told that it was, he asked why he wasnt told this at the 
start of the call. The adviser confirmed that a recorded message notified 
customers that the call is being recorded at the outset.  
oMr H was then given an opportunity for a call-back but refused and asked to 
speak to the advisers line manager. He was given the information and shortly 
after the call was terminated as the adviser felt it had become unproductive. 
Although Mr H remains unhappy with the call, hes unable to say that the adviser has 
done anything wrong. And whilst there were parts of the call that couldve been dealt 
with differently, he doesnt believe that the adviser behaved unreasonably. The 
adviser tried to assist Mr H and answer all his questions.  
The FRL from the business made clear its position with regards to the complaint and 
fax machines. Just because the business made a mistake or couldve done things 
differently doesnt mean that Mr H is entitled to monetary compensation.  
An apology along with removal of the fax number in future correspondence was 
sufficient in the circumstances.   
 
Mr H rejected the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He had no 
further points to add. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im not persuaded that 
the adviser dealt with him unprofessionally. Im satisfied that the advisers behaviour was 
reasonable and that they tried to answer all of Mr Hs questions, including seeking 
information from a colleague. On the face of the evidence Im unable to say that the adviser 
was deliberately unhelpful or obstructive.
It seems that despite the oversight on one of its letters  probably because it used an old 
template  none of its fax machines were operational for customers, so its information was 
correct to that end. 
It seems the business took a decision to stop using fax machines  for commercial and 
security reasons  as its entitled to. Its not something our business would generally get 
involved in.  
Although the letter containing a fax number was sent after the business final response letter 
causing Mr H some confusion, the business was able to clarify matters within a reasonably 
short period and offer an apology for any confusion.  
Like the investigator I dont think Mr H is entitled to any financial compensation for what 
wouldve been a momentary oversight on the part of the business which it has undertaken to 
rectify. In other words, to remove any fax number from any future correspondence.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman