DRN-3090661
The complaint
Ms B complained that she was mis-sold PPI with her Barclaycard VISA Card and 
Barclaycard Mastercard accounts by Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclays). She is unhappy about several aspects of the outcome of her complaint.
What happened
Ms B complained to Barclays about the sale of PPI taken with her Barclaycard VISA card 
and Barclaycard Mastercard account. 
In 2020 Barclays agreed that PPI had been mis-sold on the accounts and offered to pay 
compensation. As Ms B had been declared bankrupt in 2007 Barclays paid the 
compensation to Ms Bs trustee in bankruptcy, the Official Receiver (OR). 
Ms B is dissatisfied with the outcome;
She disagrees with the start date used in the redress calculations. She wants an 
accurate account of all monies paid for the PPI over the correct period of years. Ms B 
said she had paid Barclays a significant amount of money and the redress offered 
and paid to the OR didnt reflect that. 
In the letters offering redress it referred to Ms B being in an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) rather than bankruptcy. Ms B had significant concerns about 
this, and it caused her much distress. Barclays recognised its error. It apologised and 
offered to pay Ms B £100 for the upset caused by this.
Ms B says she hadnt received the offer of redress letter Barclays says it sent to her 
on 20 May 2020 for the Mastercard account.
Ms B was concerned about the address used for where the redress payments were 
sent  a PO Box in Birmingham. She referred to an account name that had nothing to 
do with her. 
Ms B told us of the expenses she had incurred in photocopying correspondence and 
postage in bringing her complaint. 
Our adjudicator said what Barclays had done was fair. Ms B didnt agree. She didnt think the 
adjudicator had acted in her best interests and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is impartial  it doesnt act for either party to a complaint. It doesnt fine or 
punish firms but considers whether a business has acted fairly when dealing with its 
consumers. 
I should first clarify that Im not looking at whether the PPI was mis-sold  that has already 
been agreed by Barclays. I am only considering the points raised by Ms B about the redress 
element of the outcome to the complaint. 
When a business agrees to settle a PPI complaint, as far as is possible, Id expect it to 
put the consumer in the position they would now be in if they hadnt taken out the policy.
The Official Receiver has joined as a party to this complaint as they have an interest in the 
outcome. When Ms B entered into her bankruptcy order the Official Receiver took control of 
her financial matters, including all of her debts and her assets. Ms B was declared bankrupt 
in 2007 so the PPI costs that she had paid for before she became bankrupt are classed as 
an asset in her bankruptcy. 
The start dates of the policies
Ms B doesnt agree with the start date used by Barclays  1994  for the purposes of the 
redress calculations. Her recollection is that she opened the accounts in around 1987 or 
1988. 
Barclays has given us a copy of the credit card account application and agreement. It is a 
dual application for both the Barclaycard VISA and the Mastercard cards. This form has 
been completed by hand and signed and dated by Ms B. It includes details about Ms Bs 
personal circumstances at the time such has her employment and date of birth etc. I can see 
it has been stamped by Barclays when it was received after Ms Bs application. Ms B has 
dated the application 3 May 1994 and it was date stamped by Barclays on 9 May 1994. So, I 
am satisfied with the start date used by Barclays in its redress calculations for these two 
accounts.
As such, I am satisfied that Barclays has paid redress for the period for which the PPI was 
paid.
It may be the case Ms B did have other accounts with Barclays which were opened at an 
earlier date. I cant know this but if it is the case, any other accounts possibly held by Ms B 
with Barclays wouldnt be relevant to this case. 
The redress calculations
The OR, on behalf of Ms B, has accepted the offers made by Barclays and the redress has 
been paid. If Ms B has any concerns with the OR about the payment, she would need to 
take those up with the OR. 
Barclays reference to Ms B being in an IVA in correspondence
When Barclays wrote to Ms B in 2020 with its offers it referred to Ms B as being in an IVA 
rather than bankruptcy. Ms B was distressed by this and was concerned this misinformation 
about her might be recorded on her account. I can understand her upset.
Barclays has confirmed this was an error and nothing more. It says it wouldnt have had an 
impact on Ms Bs financial circumstances or records. And I note the letters referring to the 
IVA were only sent to Ms B or the OR so this information was not made public or made 
widely available to the extent that it would have had a negative impact on Ms Bs financial 
records or standing.However, Barclays did recognise this error when it was brought to its attention by the 
adjudicator. And in response it apologised to Ms B and offered her £100 for the upset its 
error had caused her. I think this is a fair offer. It was an error which while I appreciate 
caused Ms B upset, it didnt have any wider impact or mean that an IVA had been recorded 
against her name. 
Ms B didnt receive the Mastercard offer letter 
Ms B asked our adjudicator for information about the offer made on the Mastercard account. 
Our adjudicator sent Ms B a copy of Barclays letter dated 20 May 2020. Ms B told us shed 
never received a copy of this letter  it was the first time shed seen it. 
Ive checked the addresses used on both off the offer letters  the VISA letter sent in 
February 2020 and the Mastercard letter sent in May 2020  and I note the address is 
identical on both. Generally, correctly addressed correspondence is delivered to the correct 
address. Ms B did receive the VISA letter, but I cant know why the Mastercard letter wasnt 
received. Im satisfied it was sent by Barclays, and to the correct address so I cant make 
any further findings on this point. And, as Ive mentioned above, the offer was accepted by 
the OR. 
Ms Bs concerns about the payment made to the OR, its address and reference to another 
account/complainant
Ms B has raised concerns about the PO Box used by the OR and has also queried reference 
to another account name she has found. 
Barclays has confirmed that payment was made to the PO Box address it had been given by 
the Insolvency Service once it had expressed an interest in the PPI refunds. I cant agree 
there is cause for concern because of this. The payment was made and correctly received. 
The other name Ms B has referred to is another account which was dealt with by the 
Insolvency Service. I cant see it has any reference to Ms B or her own account with the 
Insolvency Service. Again, if Ms B has any concerns with the Insolvency Service and the 
payments made, it should refer to the Insolvency Service itself. 
Costs incurred by Ms B
Ms B has told us of the costs in bringing her complaint and I appreciate that Ms B has 
incurred expense. But when a situation arises between an individual and a business it is 
always inevitable there will be some effort needed in bringing the complaint. I appreciate the 
time and effort Ms B has made and I know it has taken time for an outcome to be reached. 
But I do think the costs she has incurred are part of the process of bringing a complaint. 
So, although I realise Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, I hope the reasons Ive
given explain why I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman