DRN-1274590
 
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) took payments from his 
bank account for plumbing and drainage cover he hadnt asked for.  
What happened
Mr J checked his bank statement and noticed that Homeserve had taken a payment. He 
asked it about the payment and Homeserve said it was for a plumbing and drainage 
insurance policy which he took out many years before. Mr J couldnt remember asking for 
the policy and didnt know hed been paying for it. Homeserve told Mr J that he took out the 
cover during a promotional offer for new customers, paying £1 per month for the first three 
months, and its likely he just didnt cancel it at the end of the promotion. Although that was a 
possibility, Mr J remained unhappy that he had been paying for cover he didnt know he had. 
Mr J complained that Homeserve hadnt sent him any renewal documents which wouldve 
made him aware of the policy. He also told it he already had cover with his bank. Homeserve 
said it sent him a renewal letter every year. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr J wants Homeserve to refund his premiums from the start of the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
To begin with, our investigator explained to Mr J that, because of the rules set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), we could only look at the premiums going back six years 
from the date he first complained to Homeserve. 
When our investigator looked at Mr Js complaint, he considered the possibility that Mr J had 
agreed to the policy during a promotion. He noted that Homeserve still had a similar £1 per 
month offer for new customers and that the cover renewed automatically unless cancelled. 
When our investigator discussed this with him, Mr J said it was a possible explanation but he 
couldnt remember agreeing to such an offer. 
Mr J had asked for proof that he agreed to the policy. Homeserve wasnt able to provide a 
call recording as evidence because of the length of time that had passed since the cover 
started. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable that Homeserve no longer had that 
evidence. 
In response to the issue of renewal letters, our investigator noted that screenshots of Mr Js 
Homeserve account showed that it had sent renewal letters every year to the correct 
address. So, although Mr J says he didnt receive them, our investigator didnt think that was 
Homeserves fault. 
Homeserve pointed out to our investigator that Mr J had changed his bank account details 
for the Direct Debit so he mustve been aware of the policy. However, our investigator explained that Mr Js bank moved his Direct Debits for him so the change didnt prove he 
was aware of the payments.
Our investigator felt that, in light of the evidence, Homeserve hadnt done anything wrong in 
taking payments for the policy.  
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators view. He repeated his complaint that Homeserve 
didnt send him renewal letters and he thought Homeserve should be required to prove he 
agreed to the policy.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Js complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. While I can 
sympathise with his frustration at realising he was paying for cover he didnt think he had, I 
cant see any reason for Homeserve to refund the premiums. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I accept that Mr J doesnt recall agreeing to the policy given the number of years that 
have passed since the policy started. Homeserve says cover started when Mr J accepted a 
promotional offer and he says thats a possibility. On balance, Im satisfied that its more 
likely than not that Mr J asked for the policy. This is because Homeserve set up the account 
with Mr Js correct personal details and its given a reasonable account of the circumstances 
when the policy was set up. I dont think Homeserve has done anything wrong here.
Ive noted that Mr J thinks Homeserve should prove he agreed to the policy. Ordinarily, that 
might be a reasonable expectation. Homeserve doesnt have a call recording of the sale and 
in the circumstances I think thats understandable. The policy started more than 10 years 
ago and its not reasonable for Homeserve to keep call recordings dating back that far. So, 
given the passage of time, I dont think Homeserve needs to prove that Mr J asked for the 
policy.
Ive thought about whether Mr J could reasonably have known that he had the plumbing and 
drainage cover with Homeserve. He says it didnt send renewal letters. If it had, he wouldve 
known the cover was in place and couldve cancelled it. Homeserve says it sent renewal 
letters, took quarterly payments, and upgraded his cover, so he wouldve known about the 
policy. It also points out his bank account details were updated for a new Direct Debit 
instruction. 
I have no reason to doubt what Mr J says about the renewal letters. However, I am satisfied 
that Homeserve did everything it shouldve done when renewing the policy each year. Its 
screenshot of Mr Js account shows that it sent renewal letters to the correct address every 
year and it cant be held responsible if Mr J didnt receive or see those letters. Homeserve 
took payments from the correct bank account each quarter. While it mentions the change of 
Direct Debit, I accept that it was an automatic switching process by Mr Js bank and he 
wouldnt have played an active part in moving each of his regular payments. However, the 
payments wouldve shown on his bank statements and he couldve seen them there as he 
did when he raised his complaint. It wouldnt be fair for me to hold Homeserve responsible if 
Mr J didnt notice the payments sooner.
Homeserve said it upgraded the cover for Mr J. I can see that in its notes. But it doesnt say 
whether that was at his request or a business decision. However, I dont think it matters here because, whether or not Mr J was aware of the upgraded cover, it doesnt add weight to his 
complaint and it wouldnt change the outcome.
Mr J wants Homeserve to refund the premiums hes paid from the start of the policy. He says 
he had cover with his bank and wouldnt have needed additional cover. I see that hes 
provided us with the front page of a renewal document with his bank. Although it doesnt 
confirm what cover he has in place, or the length of time that cover has been available to 
him, I have no reason to doubt what he says. However, I dont think that matters here. This 
is because Homeserve has provided sufficient evidence to suggest that it handled the 
account properly and sent everything expected of it to keep Mr J aware of his policy. In doing 
so, it would reasonably have expected him to cancel if he felt he no longer needed the cover. 
I dont think Homeserve needs to refund any premiums.
In summary, while Homeserve cant prove that Mr J took out the policy, the weight of 
evidence persuades me that it didnt make a mistake in taking payments and it dealt with the 
complaint fairly. Homeserve doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman