DRN-4131519
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the delays caused by ReAssure Limited when he was taking the
benefits from his pension.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 3 May 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of the decision below, and it 
forms part of this final decision. 
Copy
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment of it
to the parties on 15 November 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint
were set out in that assessment. But to summarise, Mr W had said that he started the
process to withdraw funds from his pension with ReAssure in October 2019. As he was
having trouble contacting it he instructed his representative to act on his behalf. A letter of
authority was provided to ReAssure in September 2020. The representative said it took over
the process, and in a phone call on 19 April 2021 ReAssure agreed to send it all the relevant
paperwork.
A Retirement Options pack was sent out to the representative on 2 June 2021. This said the
fund value was £25,338. The representative said that he didnt receive the paperwork until 3
September 2021. In the meantime, the representative said hed contacted ReAssure on a
number of occasions chasing up the paperwork.
On 8 December 2021 ReAssure provided details of the value and benefits payable from the
plan. On 9 December 2021 Mr W wrote to ReAssure to say that he wanted to proceed to
take the whole fund under Trivial Pension Pot rules.
Mr W was paid a lump sum of £25,595 on 18 January 2022.
Our investigator didnt think that ReAssure had processed the transaction in a timely
manner. She said given the standard timescales that it worked to and given the particular
circumstances, she thought it should have returned the relevant paperwork to Mr Ws
representative by 3 May 2021. ReAssure had confirmed its turnaround time for processing
this would be at most 15 working days (after factoring in delays caused by Covid). The
investigator said if the delays hadnt occurred Mr W should have received his fund
withdrawal at the latest on 24 May 2021. The investigator went onto say that ReAssure
should calculate whether the value of Mr Ws pension would have been higher on 24 May
2021 than what was paid on 18 January 2022. And if it was, then ReAssure should pay the
difference to Mr W along with 8% simple interest per annum.
The investigator also said due to the length of time it had taken to process the transaction
that ReAssure should also pay Mr W £300 (inclusive of any payments already made to him)
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator also noted that Mr Ws representative had requested that his fees should be
refunded. However the investigator said it was Mr Ws choice to use the services of a
financial adviser and he could have proceeded himself without incurring those costs. So she
said she didnt think ReAssure was required to refund any fees.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators recommendations and his complaint was passed to me
to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator that ReAssure was
responsible for some delays, and for the same reasons. However I think fair compensation
should be calculated slightly differently.
I accept that Mr W originally contacted ReAssure in 2019, however this appears to be asking
for information about the pension  at least initially. For the reasons set out by the
investigator, I think if ReAssure had acted in a timely manner Mr W would have received the
lump sum on 24 May 2021. And so calculating appropriate compensation should be based
on that date. However given that Mr W didnt receive that sum until 18 January 2022, he
didnt have use of that money over that period. So I think that also needs to be taken into
account when deciding on fair compensation, as Ive set out in more detail below.
Given the length of time involved and the numerous occasions that ReAssure was chased
about the matter, I also think £500 is fair compensation for the degree of distress and
inconvenience caused.
Im mindful that the representative has said that ReAssure had agreed it would compensate
the representative for his time and costs when acting for Mr W in the matter. And that this
decision doesnt make provision for compensation to the representative.
The complainant here is Mr W; he is the eligible complainant as provided for in the rules
that we have to follow  the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys Handbook. I can only make an award for costs incurred by the eligible
complainant, and Mr W didnt incur these costs in the particular circumstances here, as
confirmed by the representative. So I dont think its appropriate to make an award for costs.
And as explained by the investigator, it was Mr Ws choice to engage the services of the
representative to help in the matter. I accept the representative spent time and incurred
costs, but I dont think it needed technical expertise that Mr W wasnt able to proceed
without, rather than the time spent chasing ReAssure which I acknowledge would have been
very frustrating for both Mr W and the representative.
Whilst I accept that ReAssure may have told the representative it would reimburse his costs,
that is a matter between ReAssure and the representative.
I also realise the representative is unhappy ReAssure hasnt provided recordings of its
phone calls. ReAssure has provided its call notes from some calls. And I dont think 
recordings themselves would change the outcome of the complaint  it has been decided
that ReAssure failed to act in a timely manner and that the lump sum should have been paid
a lot earlier. Compensation has been awarded on that basis  as Ive set out below. As I say,
I can only make an award for Mr Ws costs. So any calls about ReAssure agreeing to
reimburse the representative arent material to the outcome of the complaint anyway.Accordingly. I said my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I went on to 
outline how I intended for ReAssure to calculate and pay compensation to Mr W.
.
I asked Mr W and ReAssure to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to take into account before I made my final decision. 
Mr Ws representative didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said, in summary, that 
ReAssure claimed it recorded calls but hadnt provided us with those calls. He said the calls 
were a clear way of establishing the true facts. He said Mr W had to wait over three years for 
a simple process to take place. As he wasnt getting answers in 2019 he had asked the 
representative to step in. He said compensation should therefore start from 2019. The 
representative also provided further copies of correspondence with ReAssure.
Mr W said he was disappointed with the provisional decision and concurred with the 
response from his representative.
The representative asked for clarification of how ReAssure had acted with integrity, with due 
skill, care and diligence, pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly as 
well as observe proper standards of market conduct? He said the FCA Code of Conduct 
Rules, which were blatantly ignored. And he didnt think £500 compensation was acceptable 
for Mr Ws three year wait to get his pension. 
The representative also said it was ReAssure who initially suggested it would look at offering 
compensation (to the representative).
ReAssure said, in summary, that it agreed with my provisional decision. However it said 
although it had paid the lump sum to Mr W on 18 January 2022, it was calculated using the 
values as at 11 October 2021. It said it didnt appear it had paid any interest for the 
intervening period between those dates - which would be £439  which it would now pay. 
It said when it calculated the value as at 24 May 2021 it would therefore only calculate 
interest to 11 October 2021, as anything after this would have been taken into account in the 
above calculation. If there was a shortfall between the value of 24 May 2021 and 11 October 
2021 it would pay this to Mr W and apply interest at 8%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold the 
complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W and his representative are frustrated that ReAssure hasnt provided 
recordings of the telephone calls it had with Mr W and the representative. As I said in my 
provisional decision, it has provided notes of some calls, and I dont think having recordings 
of the  2021 calls would change the outcome of the complaint  it has already been decided 
that ReAssure failed to act in a timely manner and that the lump sum should have been paid 
a lot earlier. And even if it was ReAssure who first talked about compensation for the 
representative, for the reasons Ive already explained, that is a matter between the 
representative and ReAssure; calls about that arent material to the outcome of this decision.  
Mr W and his representative have said Mr W was trying to take the benefits from his pension 
from 2019 and so compensation should be based from then. ReAssure has said it doesnt have records of Mr W calling it in 2019. It does have records of some contact in 2020. 
There is an e-mail from Mr W to ReAssure dated 9 March 2020 asking what 
ReAssure required for his financial adviser to handle his pension on his behalf. 
A letter dated 23 March 2020 from ReAssure to Mr W providing a letter of authority 
for him to complete and return. 
An e-mail from Mr W to ReAssure dated 20 July 2020 with him providing the 
completed letter of authority form.
A letter from ReAssure to Mr W dated 30 July 2020 saying it had received a request 
for information from the representative. 
A letter from ReAssure to the representative dated 31 July 2020 saying it had 
received the letter of authority from Mr W.
A letter from Mr W to ReAssure dated 1 September 2020 thanking ReAssure for its 
correspondence (referring to the content of the 30 July 2020 letter), and asking it to 
provide then information to the representative.
A letter from ReAssure to Mr W alerting him that it had provided policy information to 
his representative.
And then two calls with the representative in September 2020 asking for policy values before 
the call in April 2021 with the representative asking if the plan could be taken as a lump sum 
- which I have found ought to have been paid to Mr W by 24 May 2021.
Whilst there is evidence of contact between Mr W and ReAssure between March and 
September 2020, I dont think this shows ReAssure acted in an untimely manner during that 
period. It appears to show that Mr W was in the process of arranging for his representative to 
act on his behalf, but the timings wouldnt suggest the matter was urgent to him. I realise 
there may have been other contact, and that Mr W has said he started the process in 2019 
and only involved his representative because he was getting nowhere with ReAssure. 
As Ive said, I understand it will be very frustrating if Mr W contacted ReAssure to take his 
pension in 2019 and on other occasions, but there is no record of it. However my role here is 
to decide on the merits of Mr Ws complaint. I have to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities in the context of the evidence that is available. We arent the industry regulator, 
and I have no powers to fine or punish ReAssure.
Taking all the circumstances into account and for the reasons explained above and in my 
provisional decision, I dont think ReAssure met its regulatory obligations and the standards 
required of it. In my opinion ReAssure ought reasonably to have arranged payment of the 
lump sum to Mr W by 24 May 2021, rather than the 18 January 2022 date that it was actually 
paid.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
ReAssure has said that it should have paid interest of £439 to Mr W for the period 11 
October 2021 to 18 January 2021. In effect this is money owed to Mr W. So ReAssure 
Limited should pay Mr W the £439, plus interest on the £439 at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from 18 January 2021 to settlement date. 
This means (for the purposes of this calculation) that Mr W effectively received an additional 
£439 as at 18 January 2021. ReAssure should therefore assume the higher figure was 
received when carrying out the following calculation. ReAssure Limited should calculate whether Mr W suffered a financial loss and pay 
compensation by:
calculating what lump sum would have been paid to Mr W on 24 May 2021.
calculating the equivalent of 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from 24 
May 2021 to 18 January 2022 - I will call this amount A. This is for loss of use of 
those monies for that period.
if the value of the lump sum at 18 January 2022 was higher than would have been 
payable at 24 May 2021, it should deduct the difference from A. I will call the 
resulting figure B. This is to offset any gain made as a result of the delay against the 
interest for loss of use.
ReAssure should then add 8% simple interest to B (i.e the loss as calculated above 
as at 18 January 2022) from that date to date of settlement. This is the amount that 
should be paid in compensation if the lump sum payable on 18 January 2022 was 
higher than that which would have been payable on 24 May 2021.  
if the value as at 24 May 2021 was higher than the 18 January 2022, then Mr W lost 
out on that difference. The difference should be paid to Mr W along with 8% simple 
interest per annum on the whole amount from 24 May 2021 to 18 January 2022. I will 
call this value C as at 18 January 2022. 8% simple interest per annum should then 
be added to C from 18 January 2022 to settlement date. This is the amount that 
should be paid in compensation if the lump sum payable on 24 May 2021 was higher 
than that paid on 18 January 2022. 
Compensation should be paid direct to Mr W. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest paid. If ReAssure Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its 
taken off. And give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
ReAssure Limited should also pay Mr W £500 (in total, and taking into account any 
payments it has already made to Mr W) for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman