DRN-3253402
The complaint
Miss B complains Barclays Bank UK PLC have not refunded money she mistakenly sent to 
the wrong account. 
What happened
Miss B says on 24 March 2021 she accidentally transferred £500 to an incorrect account. 
Miss B says she was intending to transfer the money to her own savings account but clicked 
the wrong payee from the list. 
Miss B says she immediately realised what had happened and so she rushed to the bank. 
Miss B says she was given a telephone number to contact which she did. The agent on the 
phone told her she would be able to do a recall and get the funds back. 
On 12 April 2021 Miss B went into a branch to find out what was happening with the recall. 
The person she spoke to told her he couldnt see a recall on the account but he would 
process it that day. The advisor told Miss B it could take up to 15 days for the money to be 
refunded, but it usually took 3 days. 
Miss B contacted Barclays again when she hadnt heard anything further. She says the 
operator was rude and told Miss B she needed to contact the receiving bank to get her 
money back. The operator said in any event it would be at least 4 May 2021 before the 
money would be refunded. Miss B says she still hadnt received the funds on 4 May so she 
went back to the branch. 
Miss B says she was told the 15 days referred to is the time it would take for the receiving 
account to respond. Miss B says she was told if the receiving account didnt respond. 
Barclays would remove the funds from the account themselves and then investigate what 
happened thereafter. 
Miss B says she isnt aware who the account she sent the money to belongs to and is 
unhappy Barclays wont tell her. Miss B says apart from the advisor in the branch Barclays 
have not assisted in helping her get her money back. 
Miss B says while she was in branch she was offered and accepted £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience for the amount of time she spent on the phone and repeatedly going into 
the branch to try and get her money back. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the service she received and so complained to Barclays. Barclays 
looked into what happened and upheld the complaint regarding the original recall not being 
actioned. Barclays said in the absence of a response from the receiving account it is not able 
to simply debit the account of the funds. Barclays said Miss B was able to make a legal claim 
and provided information about how to obtain the beneficiary name and address so legal 
papers could be filed. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the response received and so referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for her. The investigator said Barclays had 
followed their process correctly but accepted the failure in service when the original request 
for recall of the payment was not processed. To reflect the inconvenience Barclays paid Miss 
B £250. The investigator felt the offer was fair and so she said she couldnt ask Barclays to 
do anymore. Miss B was not happy with the outcome and so this matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. 
I wont detail every call, email, and text Ive looked at during my review of this matter. I dont 
underestimate the worry and anguish this situation has caused, and also the stress of 
dealing with the complaint about it. Aside from not being able to get the money back Miss B 
says she has had little support from Barclays. So I can understand why she feels the way 
she does. 
Miss B has accepted she was responsible for making the error in the first place, when she 
sent the payment and selected the wrong payee. Although Miss B says the payee wasnt 
saved by her, Barclays say shed previously made some small payments to the account. 
Nevertheless it remains her responsibility to properly check any payments before authorising 
them. So I cant hold Barclays responsible for the incorrect payment in the first place. 
Having said all that Im afraid I agree with our investigators outcome, so I dont require 
Barclays to do any more. Ill explain why.
Barclays follow the Credit Payment Recovery Process (CPR) which says once the bank is 
notified of a payment to the wrong account, the bank will commence action within two 
working days. Miss B made the payment online on 24 March 2021. She immediately realised 
her mistake and went to her local branch to try and recall the transaction. Barclays failed to 
recall the transaction within the timescale given above. This isnt the service I would expect 
from Barclays and it accepted it fell short. 
I have seen Barclays did explain to Miss B there were no guarantees she would get her 
money back on a number of occasions including on 24 March. Barclays could have 
managed Miss Bs expectations better by letting her know about the correct timescales for 
the payment recall, and by explaining what the process actually involved; it seems she was 
told different information by different people.  But I am satisfied this didnt hinder the process 
itself. To reflect the poor service Barclays has paid Miss B £250, which I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Although Barclays contacted the recipient over two weeks after the mistaken transfer 
occurred, the recipient has ignored all contact attempts by the bank to recall the money. So I 
think it unlikely Barclays completing the recall request any sooner would have allowed Miss 
B to recover the funds And Barclays did explain it wouldnt be able to remove the funds 
without the consent of the receiving customer.
I know Miss B hasnt been refunded any of the money. But for the reasons Ive explained 
above I dont hold Barclays responsible for the fact it wasnt able to recover the funds. I do 
realise how upsetting this will be for Miss B and Im sorry to disappoint her. But in making my 
decision I have to consider what, if anything, the business has done wrong. Here Barclays didnt make the initial recall of the payment on 24 March when it was first notified. It has 
accepted the failure in service here and compensated Miss B accordingly. But Im not 
persuaded that, had the recall been initiated straightaway, it wouldve resulted in the return 
of Miss Bs money.
Beneficiary information 
Miss B has requested details of the beneficiary on a number of occasions, and so has our 
investigator. At the time of writing I cant see that the information has been provided to Miss 
B. I have asked Barclays to confirm the position in respect of the beneficiary details. 
Barclays said it is still awaiting the information; and last chased on 26 January 2022. 
Barclays explained the ultimate beneficiary account is held with a third-party provider who is 
not a bank. Barclays is therefore waiting for the third-party provider to provide it with the 
beneficiary details. Barclays is chasing the information required for Miss B and while I 
understand the position is frustrating, I think Barclays is doing what it can. Additionally, Miss 
B may wish to seek legal advice about any recovery options available to her.
Im sorry that this isnt the outcome that Miss B hoped for. I hope she can understand the 
reasons for my decision.
Finally, Im aware Miss B has said she wants to close her accounts with Barclays. This isnt 
something I can help with, but as our investigator has previously explained, Miss B can 
contact Barclays directly to discuss her wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I think the compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances and if Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt yet paid it, it should now do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman