DRN-2252731
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005 to support her mortgage.
  
What happened
Mrs M complained to this Service. She said she was told during a telephone call that she 
had to take PPI to get the mortgage; she felt pressured to buy it; she already had other 
insurance and savings and was diagnosed with a pre-existing medical condition in 2002 
which she couldnt claim for. So she concludes the policy was mis-sold.  
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because of Mrs Ms medical 
condition. 
Santander disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. It added Mrs M could still have claimed for her medical condition if she satisfied 
certain conditions about when she was last treated or consulted a doctor.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2020 where I explained why I was not going 
to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to Mrs M and 
Santander and we invited both parties to produce any new evidence or comments. Mrs Ms 
representatives and Santander said they had nothing further to add. As there isnt any new 
evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointment to her, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether Santander made Mrs M aware the policy was optional. She said she 
was told she had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. Santander cannot provide a telephone 
sales script, but it has produced a copy of the record of Mrs Ms answers to the advisers 
questions  called the High Level Needs Analysis. The analysis went through her financial 
needs at the time. I have looked at it very carefully and I think she was given a choice about 
PPI and she consented to have it added to her mortgage account. 
She also said she was pressured to buy the policy, but she didnt tell me exactly what was 
said to her that day. And I havent seen any evidence of that on the documents Ive seen. So 
there isnt enough evidence here to make me think she was pressured to buy. 
Santander and Mrs M said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be 
suitable for her needs. In this case, I think Mrs M was eligible for PPI, it seems the policy 
was affordable for her and - although she may have been affected by the things the policy 
didnt cover (the exclusions)  in the absence of any other evidence, I think the policy 
probably was suitable for her needs. So I then looked in more detail at her financial needs.
Mrs M said she was in full time employment and could get good employee benefits from her 
employer if she was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; she had savings and other 
insurance  although she didnt tell me how much or what the other insurance covered. 
However, having decided she wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mrs M thought the 
policy provided a valuable benefit to her in addition to her employee benefits. I think the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her employee benefits at a time when she might have 
needed it most. I also think it was useful for Mrs M to be able to rely on the PPI policy for 
mortgage repayments instead of using her other funds and insurances which could be used 
for other expenses. So I dont think her finances at the time of the sale made the PPI 
unsuitable for her. 
I also looked at whether Santander gave Mrs M enough clear information about the policy. In 
respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the adviser set out the cost of the PPI 
during the telephone call  this is a potential shortcoming in the sale. But having said that, 
Ive already decided that Mrs M chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for 
her, so I dont think that having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would 
have put her off from taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to Mrs Ms attention  this is another potential 
shortcoming in the sale. This is important because Mrs M said she suffered from depression 
and was diagnosed with it in 2002. The exclusion in the policy says she cannot claim for a 
pre-existing medical condition which she had at the start date of the policy  although she 
might be able to claim under certain met conditions. So it is likely Mrs M would not have 
been able to claim for her medical condition and it is unlikely she would have bought the 
policy if that had been highlighted to her. 
However, she has not told me when the medical condition was last treated; how it affected 
her ability to work; if she had to take time off work for it or if she was likely to claim on the 
policy for it. And I need to know these things to see if she could claim on the policy. So in the 
absence of that evidence from Mrs M about her medical condition, I cannot see there is 
enough evidence here to make me uphold the complaint because of that exclusion in the 
policy. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give Mrs M some of the commission she 
paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Ms mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Santander doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs M paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs M was aware PPI was optional and she 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for her circumstances and that she had 
enough clear information to make a decision about it. So I am not going to uphold this 
complaint.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman