DRN-3279456
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited mishandled his request to voluntarily terminate 
a conditional sale agreement he had on a car. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr D entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement for a used car with 
Moneybarn. The cash price for the car was £19,500 and Mr D made an initial payment of 
£2,700, making a total credit amount of £16,800. The interest on the credit amounted to 
£16,988.17 making a total to pay of £36,488.71. Under the agreement Mr D was to make 
monthly payments of £572.69.
Mr D says that his financial position changed in June 2019, and he was no longer able to 
afford the payments on the car. Unfortunately, at the same time, a close relative become 
very unwell and they needed both Mr Ds physical and financial support. Mr D says that, due 
to these pressures, he was keen to end the agreement so he wouldnt have to continue to 
meet the monthly payments.
Mr D requested a settlement figure from Moneybarn which was provided in July 2019. The 
settlement figure was for £16,510.54 and Mr D says he was disappointed with this figure due 
to the amount hed paid towards the car. Mr D says he then sought advice from others as to 
what he could do. Mr D says he was advised that the best solution would be to seek to 
voluntary terminate the conditional sale agreement and return the car.
Mr D sent a letter to Moneybarn requesting that he voluntary terminate the agreement and 
confirming that he understood he would be liable under the formula of section 100 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. In August 2019, Moneybarn actioned the voluntary termination 
and collected the car. After collecting the car, Moneybarn wrote to Mr D setting out that the 
accounts balance pre-final billing was £9,817.45. The letter set out there could be 
additional charges if there was missing paperwork for the car, or if it needed repairs. The car 
was later sold at an auction.
Moneybarn sent Mr D a letter at the end of August 2019, setting out that the final balance on 
his account was £9,817.45, which was now due to be paid. It also sent him a notice of sums 
in arrears for the same amount on the same date.  
Mr D contacted Moneybarn and queried the amount outstanding on his account. He said 
hed been advised that by voluntarily terminating the agreement the balance would be 
discounted by 50% and that the sale of the car, plus his contribution, would cover the 
remaining 50% balance. He said he hadnt expected there to be anything left to pay. 
Moneybarn explained that the sale of the car was used to cover the 50% that had been 
deducted and, as set out in the agreements terms and conditions, Mr D was liable to cover 
the remaining 50% of the total credit amount that had been borrowed.
Moneybarn also explained that, because Mr D had written asking to voluntary terminate the 
agreement, it had been obliged to follow his request. It said that had Mr D called it, then it 
would have explained the various options that would have been open to him.
Mr D didnt make any payments off the balance and Moneybarn passed his account to a 
third party to manage. Mr D was unhappy that his account had been passed on and that 
there was an outstanding balance on his account. He complained to Moneybarn in January 
2020.
Moneybarn didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr D hadnt made any contact with it prior 
to his letter requesting that he voluntary terminate the credit agreement. Moneybarn said 
that, in these circumstances, it wasnt unreasonable of it to have considered Mr D was aware 
of his financial liability in taking this action. Mr D had agreed to the terms and conditions of 
the conditional sale agreement which set out that, if he decided to voluntary terminate the 
agreement, he would remain liable for half of the total amount borrowed.
Moneybarn said the total amount borrowed had been £36,488.71 and half of that figure 
amounted to £18,244.36. Mr D had paid £8,426.90 in repayments and therefore there was a 
remaining balance to clear of £9,817.45. Moneybarn confirmed that the proceeds of the sale 
of the car didnt go towards Mr Ds liability under the agreement.
Mr D was unhappy at Moneybarns response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said there were 
three ways to end an agreement early. It could either be settled and a rebate on the amount 
of interest payable would be calculated by the business when reaching the figure payable to 
end the agreement; that the car could be voluntarily surrendered though the total amount 
payable under the agreement may still remain payable or that the agreement was voluntarily 
terminated and the consumers liability was to pay 50% of the total amount borrowed. 
Our investigator said Moneybarn hadnt had an obligation to explain the options to Mr D 
once hed made his choice.  He said the agreement set out Mr Ds liability when voluntarily 
terminating the agreement.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He said the options should have been set out for 
him as he was in financial difficulty. Mr D also said that it was unfair that Moneybarn was 
seeking the balance of £9,817.45 when it had also received the proceeds from the car sale. 
He said it would have accepted £16,510.54 to settle the agreement in July 2019. 
Mr D said he was unhappy that his account had been passed to third party company when 
he had been disputing the balance he owed.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the conditional sale agreement, I can see that, under the terms and conditions, 
theres a heading Termination: Your Rights. This sets out that there is a right for Mr D to 
terminate the agreement but if he does then Moneybarn is entitled to the return of the car 
and to half the amount payable under this agreement, that is £18,244.36. It also says that if 
at least that amount has been paid then Mr D wont have to pay more. So, I think the 
agreement sets out clearly what Mr Ds liability is under the agreement should he choose 
this option.
Ive seen that Mr D feels strongly that he should have been provided with more advice about 
what he could do to limit his financial liability to Moneybarn under the agreement. But Ive 
seen that he didnt contact Moneybarn and explain his financial and personal circumstances and that he took advice from a third party. It appears that Mr D has either been poorly 
advised or misunderstood what the effect would be of voluntarily terminating the agreement 
in terms of what he may still owe. 
Voluntary termination is governed by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Moneybarn has 
correctly applied the law in regard to how it calculated the remaining balance of Mr Ds 
account, following his request to terminate the agreement and the car being returned. Mr D 
also referred to the applicable section when he wrote to Moneybarn requesting that the 
agreement be ended.
So, I dont think I can reasonably or fairly criticise Moneybarn for not providing further 
information to Mr D about his options. The only contact it received from him, was a formal 
written request to end the agreement and return the car. This written request had also set 
out that Mr D understood his liability as set out in section 100 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. That is, that he understood he would have a liability, after returning the car, to pay 
50% of the total amount borrowed. I also think it would have been reasonable to have 
expected Mr D to have spoken with Moneybarn and explained his circumstances if hed 
wanted its advice. I cant reasonably blame Moneybarn for what a third party said would be 
the best action for Mr D to take.
Ive seen Mr D queried the balance with Moneybarn in September 2019, and that it had 
provided a full explanation over the phone to him as to how the outstanding amount had 
been calculated. I also note that, at the end of that conversation, Moneybarn had said it 
would contact him again to see if anything could be done and that Mr D said he would also 
seek legal advice.
Moneybarns notes for Mr Ds account show that a call back was attempted a few days later 
but no contact could be made. There then appears to be a gap in its contact with Mr D. Mr D 
says he assumed this was because he didnt owe Moneybarn any further money and was 
disappointed to be contacted in early 2020, and informed that the balance of £9,817.45 was 
still outstanding. Mr D then made his complaint.
While I appreciate this delay in contacting would have caused Mr D frustration and 
disappointment on discovering he still owed a substantial sum to Moneybarn, I dont think I 
can fairly say the balance isnt due. As set out above Moneybarn has terminated the 
agreement in line with the legislation and by signing the agreement Mr D agreed to pay back 
the credit and abide by its terms and conditions.
Mr D also feels strongly that Moneybarn has acted unfairly by passing his account to a third-
party company for collection. He says Moneybarn made no attempt to mediate with him over 
the debt. However, although I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy that this action was taken, 
again I cant criticise Moneybarn for doing something it was entitled to do. By entering the 
agreement Mr D had agreed to his liability should he seek to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. I also havent seen that Mr D has set out what his financial and personal 
circumstances were to Moneybarn during his complaint. It isnt unusual for a credit provider 
to pass accounts to other companies to deal with accounts that are in arrears.
Ive seen that Mr D has had to deal with a number of stressful factors both before deciding to 
return the car and afterwards. These have included a reduction in the way he was paid 
making the car payments unaffordable, ill-health of a close relative and having to support 
them both physically and financially. He has also suffered two bereavements of close family 
members which again have had both emotional and financial impacts on him. I think that had 
Mr D been more open with Moneybarn then it would have sought to provide him with support 
and advice where it could.I also think that had Mr D properly understood the full implications of voluntary terminating 
the agreement, he would have instead arranged to settle the agreement. Ive seen that he 
obtained valuations for the car but decided not to proceed, because there would have been 
a shortfall between that and the settlement figure. He was offered a provisional figure of 
£14,560 by a company and the settlement figure was £16,510.54. Mr D says that had he 
known how much he would owe by voluntary terminating the agreement he would have 
borrowed the difference to pay the settlement from friends or family. I think that, when 
looking at owing around £2,000 or around £9,500, then Mr D would have sought to raise the 
additional funds to settle the account.
However, Mr D didnt take pay the settlement and while I am sympathetic to the position he 
now finds himself in, I cant fairly say this is due to the actions of Moneybarn. It simply 
abided by his request to voluntary terminate the agreement and applied the agreements 
terms and conditions when doing so. And in light of that, I cant reasonably ask Moneybarn 
to write-off the outstanding balance.
I would ask that Moneybarn, now that it is aware that Mr Ds has financial and personal 
difficulties, deals with the outstanding balance sympathetically or instructs the third party to 
do so.
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman