DRN-3624169
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society continued to charge them the full 
monthly fee for their packaged bank account when they couldnt use all the account benefits 
due to the pandemic. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a joint FlexPlus account with Nationwide. The account attracted a £13 
monthly fee. In return, the account offered a range of benefits over and above a fee free 
account. This included (but wasnt limited to): car breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance 
and travel insurance. In addition to the monthly fee, Mr and Mrs B paid an additional fee 
(direct to the travel insurer) to extend the travel insurance benefit to provide cover for travel 
to the USA. 
The travel insurer refunded a portion of the additional amount Mr and Mrs B had paid to it. 
This was because Mr and Mrs B couldnt use the additional cover provided as travel to the 
USA wasnt allowed during the pandemic. But Nationwide didnt offer to refund any of the 
monthly account fee. So, they complained to Nationwide.
In response Nationwide noted that Mr and Mrs B had since changed their account. And it 
refunded one monthly fee it had charged for the Flex Plus account as a gesture of goodwill. 
But it didnt agree to refund any other fees. It said the FlexPlus account came with a range of 
benefits, not all of which were affected by the pandemic. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs B referred the complaint to us. They said 
that a 50% refund of the fees charged for the period they couldnt travel would be fairer. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but concluded that Nationwide hadnt 
acted unfairly. He said the FlexPlus account terms and conditions made it clear that a refund 
wouldnt be available if a service was unavailable and that an account holder could close the 
account if it was no longer suitable for them. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept this outcome. They reiterated that they didnt expect a full refund 
because they were aware the cost of the account covered other benefits. And they added 
that they didnt change the account sooner - as at the time (the start of the pandemic), it was 
uncertain how long the travel restrictions would be in place. They also felt it was unfair to rely 
on account terms and conditions during an unprecedented event. 
The investigator considered this, but overall, he didnt think this altered the outcome hed 
reached.  
Unhappy with the outcome Mr and Mrs B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have made several detailed points about their complaint which I have only 
summarised above. But Id like to reassure them that I have read and considered their 
correspondence in full. And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will 
not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not 
necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to consider the circumstances as a 
whole. 
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know            
Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why. 
The investigator has set out the terms and conditions which apply to this type of account. So, 
I wont repeat them here. But I agree with the investigator that the terms make it clear that a 
refund wont be made when an account holder is unable to make use of one or more of the 
benefits the account offers. 
I can see Mr and Mrs B think its inappropriate to rely on the terms of the account given the 
unprecedented circumstances during the pandemic. And I understand why they feel that 
way. So, I think its important to explain that the monthly fee applicable to FlexPlus account  
and any other type of packaged account provided by banks and building societies, is for the 
account as a whole, rather than parts of the fee being apportioned to each individual 
benefit. And, when one of these accounts is taken out, its not expected that every account 
holder will be interested in, or indeed use, every benefit. 
When such an account is opened, it is for the customer to decide if the monthly fee 
represents good value for the benefits they are interested in and intend/are able to use. And 
that remains the case throughout the life of the account. 
So, I find it was for Mr and Mrs B to decide  when the pandemic started, if the account fee 
still represented good value for the benefits they could still make use of during this time. And 
if they didnt think this was the case, I think it was for them to contact Nationwide and ask to 
have their account moved back to a fee free account or any other available account that was 
more suited to them. I note that this did happen some months later. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs disappointment at not being able to fully use the 
travel insurance benefit during the pandemic, I dont think Nationwide was obliged to refund 
a portion of the cost of the FlexPlus account for the months when travel restrictions were in 
place. I note that Nationwide refunded one £13 monthly fee. I think that is fair. Although its 
less than Mr and Mrs B hoped for, it does represent a partial refund of the fees paid by them
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 Sandra Greene
Ombudsman