DRN-1629053
 
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that MBNA Limited mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs B. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. MBNA sold Mrs B the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mrs B has said the PPI was added without her knowledge  she says she didnt ask for it 
and didnt need it.  However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless 
there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another person 
or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the 
allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make 
someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time 
ago.
And Ive looked at the card application form which Mrs B signed. And I can see there is a tick 
against the section asking for PPI. So the evidence I have does support that MBNA gave 
Mrs B a choice and that she applied for PPI, even if Mrs B doesnt now remember it. Overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Bs consent.  
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Bs individual needs. 
This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well MBNA explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
MBNA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether she took the PPI. I say 
this because the PPI could have been useful if she lost her income due to long-term 
sickness or unemployment  and shes said she didnt have good cover from her employer, 
or savings to fall back on. So, in her circumstances, its unlikely better information would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman