DRN-2380796
The complaint
Mr W complains that, in 2007, a business since acquired by Santander UK Plc gave him 
unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
In 2007, shortly after turning 18, Mr W received an inheritance held in trust. Within a few 
months, he was advised to invest £15,000. £4,000 was invested in a stocks and shares ISA 
and £11,000 in a bond - both being surrendered four years later in 2011. At the time Mr W 
was single with no financial dependants. He was a student, working part-time and living with 
parents.
Mr W had a monthly net income of £200 and £27,000 in deposit-based accounts. It was 
recorded his objective was capital growth, over the medium to long term. He was a first-time 
investor but was prepared to take some risk, over at least a seven-year period, in the hope 
of better returns. Overall, he was identified as a moderate to high risk investor.
In 2019 Mr W, via a representative, complained that the banks advice to him in 2007 wasnt 
suitable. He argued hed been advised to invest too soon after receiving his inheritance. He 
thought the investment represented too much of his savings, in products that were too risky 
for an inexperienced investor, and at a time when there was uncertainty over his health. He 
also said the advice came at a time he was looking to purchase a property in the near future.
 
Santander rejected the complaint. In short, it said:
Mr W had time to consider what he wanted to do with the inheritance before receiving 
it as he was aware, he would be getting this.
In 2007, Mr W met with an adviser to discuss investing £15,000 of his savings over 
seven years. The adviser discussed Mr Ws income, expenditure, savings and future 
plans. 
The adviser recommended Mr W invest £7,000 in a maxi ISA and £8,000 in a unit 
trust but Mr W rejected this different investments. This shows the financial adviser 
discussed Mr Ws attitude to risk.
There was no mention by Mr W of health problems that could affect his ability to work 
and save funds and he hadnt made them aware he was wanting to invest in a 
property in the short term.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
thought Mr W had been left with enough cash reserve. And she considered the investments 
Santander had recommended were suitable for him, because they provided the opportunity 
for Mr W to meet his objectives while taking a level of risk he seemed willing to accept. Mr 
Ws representative disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents from the point of sale record that Mr W had spare income and wanted to 
save over the medium to long term with the potential to achieve better returns. The fact find 
recorded he was a moderate to high risk investor, which meant he wanted to maximise the 
growth of his investments and attract tax efficiency over the investment period.
Santander recommended £7,000 to be invested in a maxi ISA along with a further £8,000 in 
a unit trust, but Mr W rejected that in favour of investing £4,000 in a stocks and shares ISA 
and £11,000 in a bond. £12,000 was kept as a cash reserve. 
I've considered whether the advice to invest in the ISA and bond was unsuitable because 
the fund was too risky for Mr W. The CMCs argument in support of the level of risk being 
unsuitable is largely based on Mr Ws lack of investment experience. Taking what we know 
about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives into account, I dont think Ive seen enough to 
persuade me that investment advice given here was unsuitable. Although Mr W hadnt 
invested in risky products before, this doesn't automatically mean he wasnt able to take a 
risk with some of his money. Indeed, the fact find and rejection of the advisers 
recommendation shows he expressed a willingness to take more risk, in the hope of better 
returns. 
Santander originally recommended a pair of investments, with it recorded that Mr W asked 
for a slightly different mix of funds  about two thirds of his money went into commercial 
property with the remainder in a fund investing in smaller UK company shares. The suitability 
report clearly explained what the different levels of risk meant and where his chosen funds 
sat on the risk spectrum.
Based on the change to the initial recommendation, I find it more likely than not that the 
adviser did discuss risk and the different types of investment available. Mr Ws willingness to 
ask for different types of investment in certain asset classes speaks to at least a reasonable 
understanding of and confidence in the investments he was to make. Overall Im satisfied 
Santander clearly explained the risk these investments posed to Mr Ws money, and that this 
was a level of risk he was willing to take in order to achieve his objectives.
Ive also considered Mr Ws wider financial circumstances. The amount invested formed a 
little over half of his overall funds and left him with £12,000 on deposit. He had no 
dependents, lived with his parents and had a disposable monthly income of around £200 
from part-time work. Mr Ws bond application form shows he didnt want to make any 
withdrawals which would suggest the cash reserve he was left with following Santanders 
advice was enough to cover his outgoings for a reasonable amount of time. Im satisfied Mr 
W could afford to take the risk the investments presented with a portion of his savings, and 
that he had the ability to replace losses without a material impact to his standard of living. 
Taking account of his circumstances, I'm satisfied the amount invested was suitable when 
considered in the context of his overall financial position.
Lastly Mr W has said there was uncertainty over his health so he shouldnt have been 
advised to invest. Interestingly, Mr W also says Santanders advice didnt account for his 
short-term plans to buy a property. I dont think the fact that Mr W had a health condition 
means he shouldn't have invested for his future. In any event, the documentation Ive seen 
says he was able to study and work part time with no indication that it was affecting him at 
that time or would affect his ability to work and save funds in the future. And Mr W had no 
identified short term need for the money. Theres nothing from the documents at the time 
that say Mr W was intending to buy a property. Given the suitability letter stated Mr W 
wanted to tie his money up for at least seven years, Id have expected him to have raised 
this with Santander at the time had this not been in line with his plans. In light of everything, I find Santanders advice to have been suitable for Mr Ws needs, and 
within the level of risk he was willing and able to accept. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman