DRN-3074576
The complaint
 Mrs M complains about a loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as L2G, 
which she says was unaffordable.
 
What happened
L2G provided Mrs M with a loan. Mrs M asked for asked for a loan for £500 on 22 August 
2019. This loan had a term of 18 months and Mrs M would be contracted to repay £114.28 
each month. If the loan ran to term, she would pay back £2057.04. I can see that this loan 
has now been repaid.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They said L2G 
had not carried out proportionate checks but then went on to make an unfair lending decision 
based on what it had in front of it.
L2G disagreed with our investigators view. It says it had made proportionate checks and a 
fair lending decision.
So as this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When L2G lent to Mrs M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mrs Ms creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Mrs M wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mrs M of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, L2G had to consider Mrs Ms ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ms case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
If it did, did L2G then make a fair lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that L2G asked Mrs M about her income and expenditure when she applied for the 
loan in August 2019. It has told our service that it adjusted Mrs Ms income and expenditure 
based on an online verification tool for her income, and its own calculations using what it had 
in front of it for expenditure. This included it assessing credit search results that it conducted 
for Mrs M. 
L2G reduced Mrs Ms declared income from £1500 a month to £1473.36 after verifying this. 
It then increased what Mrs M says her expenditure was of £454, to £1208.98, based on 
checks it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for any 
fluctuations in spend for Mrs M. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said about how it calculated Mrs Ms disposable 
income when it agreed to lend to her. I dont think its checks were proportionate because 
there was a discrepancy between what Mrs M said about her expenditure and what it says it 
could see through its checks. I dont think L2G should have accepted the loan knowing or 
having reason to suspect Mrs M wasnt being truthful about her expenditure. The 
discrepancy between what Mrs M said her expenditure was and what L2G calculated it to be 
was wide. So, I think L2G should either have carried out further checks to see if there were 
good reasons for this, or it shouldnt have provided Mrs M with the loan. This leads me to 
think that L2G needed to take steps to verify what Mrs Ms actual monthly expenditure was 
and look further into her income. As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mrs M with her loan were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mrs M 
would need to meet her loan repayments over 18 months.
Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks L2G carried out werent proportionate and that they needed to do 
more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks, because I dont think L2G made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mrs M 
anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search results that L2G would have 
had in front of it, I can see that Mrs M was already committed to quite a high proportion 
of credit repayment in relation to the income figure L2G was using in its assessment. 
This being the figure it had verified using an online verification tool.  
L2G would have been aware that Mrs M would be paying £307 per month on two 
loans she took out. So, with the addition of the repayment from this loan of £114.28, in 
total she would need to repay around £420 in credit repayments a month. In addition, 
Mrs M had a credit card account to service, and she was in an arrangement to pay for 
a defaulted mail order account. She also had defaulted on another mail order account 
and had a balance to pay on this also. When I look at all she was commitment to here 
I think the total monthly sum that she wouldve needed to pay represented significant 
part (at least a third) of her income. 
L2G would have seen also through the credit search results that it had in front of it, 
that servicing her credit commitments was proving difficult for Mrs M as, as I have 
already mentioned, she was in an arrangement to pay and had defaulted on another 
account. L2G ought to have realised at this stage that a further credit commitment 
would not have been sustainable for Mrs M here. I think on balance, L2G ought to 
have realised it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay her loan over 
the 18-month term. And, in these circumstances, L2G should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not fair to lend to Mrs M.
As Mrs M has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what L2G did wrong. So, I think L2G needs to put things right.
 
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mrs M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, L2G should:
add up the total amount of money Mrs M received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mrs M made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mrs M was given should be treated 
as overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mrs M to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mrs Ms credit file because of the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons set out above and 
require Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman