DRN-3371949
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain about how Inter Partner Assistance SA handled their claim when
their underfloor heating system broke down.
What happened
Mr M and Ms S have home emergency cover which is underwritten by IPA. In early April
2021 their downstairs underfloor heating (UFH) broke down and Ms S contacted IPA to
make a claim. She was initially told that UFH wasnt covered by her policy. She asked to
speak to a manager as she said this wasnt made clear in her policy. IPA called her back
and she was told her claim had been accepted and an engineer would be sent out.
When she heard nothing further Ms S called IPA again and was told they couldnt send an
engineer who could deal with UFH. She was told to arrange her own engineer and shed be
reimbursed up to £500 towards the repair costs. Ms S arranged her own repairs which cost
£144. But when she sent details of the claim to IPA, she was told that her claim wasnt
covered under the terms of her policy, so the repair costs wouldnt be reimbursed.
IPA paid Mr M and Ms S £75 compensation. Ms S believed this was offered because they
couldnt send out an appropriate engineer. She says she only accepted it as she believed
IPA were going to reimburse her engineers costs. And she wasnt happy when they later
said this sum was offered to cover the inconsistent advice she was given, about whether her
claim was covered by her policy.
Ms S complained to IPA as she wanted them to honour what theyd told her and reimburse
her repair costs. And she wanted compensation for their poor handling of her claim and the
stress and inconvenience this had caused. IPA didnt uphold the complaint as they said UFH
wasnt covered by her policy, and theyd already provided compensation for the
inconvenience shed suffered.
Mr M and Ms S then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and
said UFH was the only heating system Mr M and Ms S had on their ground floor. But their 
upstairs heating system was still working. And the terms and conditions of their policy say
that IPA will cover total failure of your central heating system between the months of
September and April inclusive. So she thought it was fair for IPA to say there was a partial
failure of the heating system which wouldnt be covered under the policy.
She agreed that IPA shouldnt have told Ms S that her claim would be covered up to £500 for
repairs and didnt think the £75 compensation IPA had paid was enough. She felt that
overall, £130 was a reasonable amount to compensate Mr M and Ms S for the distress and
inconvenience theyd suffered.
IPA agreed to pay Mr M and Ms S the further £55 recommended by our investigator. But
they werent happy with this. Ms S responded to our investigator with the following points: -
IPA only referred to the total failure of the heating system being a condition for
accepting the claim after shed been told the claim was accepted and she should
organise her own engineer.
The policy doesnt say UFH heating isnt covered, but this was the reason she was
 initially given for the for the claim being declined.
She was told her claim had been accepted and she should arrange her own
engineer, and shed be reimbursed up to £500. She wasnt told theyd be a further
review until after shed submitted her claim for reimbursement.
The £75 compensation she received was because IPA didnt book an engineer as
theyd promised, they failed to deal with the repair within a specified timeframe and
they couldnt send a suitably qualified engineer.
Theyd accepted the claim so if theyd been able to send a suitable engineer, she
wouldnt have incurred any costs.
Had she been advised correctly she could have organised an engineer more quickly.
She would have experienced less stress and frustration and wouldnt have had to
deal with the unpleasant call shes complained about.
If shed known she was paying for the repairs shed have obtained several quotes
rather than accepting the first one she received.
Having accepted her claim she believes IPA need to cover the cost of the repairs and
compensate her for the stress and inconvenience shes suffered because of their
poor handling of her claim.
The case then came to me for decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 February 2022. And in it I said: -
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr M and Ms Ss policy I agree with IPA that the
problem with their downstairs UFH wasnt covered. This isnt because it was UFH, but simply
because the policy only covered them for the total failure of your central heating system
between the months of September and April inclusive.
So Ms S should never have been told that the claim was covered, or to arrange her own
engineer whose costs would be covered up to £500, the policy limit. But simply because a
business has got something wrong this doesnt mean that well tell them to pay a claim that
isnt covered by the policy. 
IPA should have made it clear from the outset that the claim wasnt covered and referred Ms
S to the correct policy term, rather than saying the policy didnt cover UFH. And when Ms S
challenged this, they shouldnt have agreed to cover the claim and advised her to arrange
her own engineer. But this is what they did.
I accept what Ms S has told us about the £75 compensation IPA paid and that this was for
failing to send out an engineer as promised, and telling her to arrange her own engineer as
they didnt have anyone suitably qualified to work on UFH. And at the time this offer was
made I also accept that Ms S had been told her claim was accepted. It was only later that
she was told this sum was compensation for the poor customer service shed received.
I think that IPA have provided poor customer service throughout Mr M and Ms Ss claim. And
I dont think the additional £55 compensation our investigator recommended is enough to
compensate them for this.In addition to giving Ms S the wrong explanation for why the claim wasnt covered, IPA then
agreed to cover the claim only to tell her the claim was subject to a further review when she
submitted her engineers invoice for reimbursement. Only at this point was she finally told
the claim wasnt covered.
Ive listened to the call Ms S made to IPA about her claim. Having done so I understand why
shes raised this as part of her complaint. Its a long call, running to about 30 minutes. Ms S
wanted to go through how her claim had been handled at get IPAs response to the various
points shed raised. This is the first time Ms S was told that the £75 compensation was
intended to cover the poor customer service shed received. I think the call handler was
abrupt and dismissive of Ms S. She interrupts Ms S and talks over her many times, even
when Ms S has asked her to let her finish what shes saying. And this is also when Ms S was
told that after shed been told to arrange an engineer and submit the invoice for payment,
her claim was still subject to a further review.
Im persuaded that Mr M and Ms S have received very poor customer service from IPA.
Theyve provided incorrect and inconsistent advice when they should have simply told
them that their claim wasnt covered because their whole heating system hadnt failed. So
theyve prolonged the claim when Mr M and Ms S could simply have arranged their own
engineer immediately. Its difficult for me to say if Mr M and Ms S could have found someone
to complete the repairs for less than £144, as they didnt obtain any additional quotes. And I
cant tell IPA to pay the cost of the repairs as they arent covered by their policy.
But I can award compensation for the poor customer service Mr M and Ms S received from
IPA. And taking everything into account, including the call Ive referred to, I think £250 is the
appropriate figure. This is in addition to the £75 IPA have already paid.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr M and Ms Ss complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision both parties have indicated that they accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both IPA and Mr M and Ms S have told us that they accept my provisional decision 
theres no reason for me to review what Ive said.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr M and Ms Ss complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA.
And to put things right I require them to pay Mr M and Ms S a further £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience the poor handling of their claim has caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman