DRN-2602577
The complaint
Mrs B says Quilter Financial Services Ltd is responsible for the financial detriment she has 
suffered as a result of the advice it gave her in 2017 about her pension arrangements. It 
recommended the transfer of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with a discretionary fund management (DFM) facility.
Mrs Bs adviser worked for Financial Options Group, which was a trading name of CJP 
Financial Services Ltd, which itself was an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial 
Planning Ltd. This made Intrinsic responsible for Mrs Bs advice, and therefore her 
complaint. Intrinsic has since been rebranded as Quilter Financial Services Ltd so, for ease I 
will refer to Quilter in my decision.
Mrs Bs husband received advice from Quilter around the same time and has also made a 
complaint. This is being dealt with separately.
What happened
Mrs B was a member of an OPS. This provided defined retirement and death benefits. Her 
benefits were deferred, as shed left her former employers scheme in 2012 with over 22 
years of pensionable service.
Mrs Bs normal retirement age (NRA) in the scheme was 65. It was estimated at that point 
she could receive an annual pension of around £18,500. Alternatively, she could take tax-
free cash (TFC) of about £77,000 and a reduced annual pension in the region of £14,100.
Mrs B was able to access her pension benefits early from the age of 55, although this 
wouldve been on an actuarially reduced basis. Her OPS also provided benefits for her 
spouse in the event of her death pre or post her retirement.
Mrs B says Quilters services were recommended to her and her husband by their 
accountant. She says their requirements were relatively straightforward. They wanted advice 
on transferring their OPS funds to a personal pension, the main driver being concerns over 
the financial stability of their former employer.
Information supplied by Mrs Bs then pension provider showed that the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of her fund was around £360,000. She was ultimately persuaded to 
transfer from her OPS into an Old Mutual Wealth SIPP and engage Brewin Dolphin as the 
DFM. This appears to have been given effect in April 2017.
Just over a year later Mrs B and her husband raised various concerns about what had 
happened. This included challenges about the fees and charges being incurred; service 
issues such as a delay in the transfer of Mrs Bs cash holding; and worries about investment 
performance.
Quilter rejected Mrs Bs complaint. It concluded the transfer of her OPS into the Old Mutual 
Wealth SIPP had met her needs and objectives. It said all of the fees and charges were 
disclosed at the point of sale. It said the performance of her fund had exceeded the agreed 
benchmark. It acknowledged a delay in the transfer of her funds from her SIPP provider to 
the DFM but didnt accept responsibility for this. It did however accept it couldve done more 
to follow up what was happening and offered £2000 as compensation.
The investigator concluded Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld and that Quilters advice to 
transfer out of her OPS hadnt been suitable. He thought it should put her back as close as 
reasonably possible into the position she wouldve been in now had the transfer not 
happened. And since this would provide a comprehensive assessment of redress, there was 
no need to address each of her detailed complaint points.
Quilter rejected the investigators approach and recommendations. It was concerned hed 
considered the matter of suitability of the advice when this hadnt been part of Mrs Bs 
complaint. As far as it was aware, she remained satisfied in that regard. Quilter said the 
investigator hadnt addressed the specific complaint points Mrs B had raised, which it 
continued to refute. It also went on to explain why it believed the advice to transfer had been 
suitable.
So, Mrs Bs complaint has been passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in 
January and both parties have provided further information and argument for me to consider. 
Im grateful to both parties for their further submissions, which Ive carefully considered. Ill 
address the key elements raised where these are material to my findings and conclusions in 
this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not given a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill start by addressing the scope of Mrs Bs complaint and my approach to reviewing it. 
Quilter remains of the view that an investigation of the transfer of Mrs Bs OPS is outside the 
jurisdiction of this Service. It said, while it recognised our general approach, this didnt give 
us authority to investigate matters which were not subject of a complaint. It referenced 
Sections of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) in support of its argument.
Section 225 (concerning "the Scheme", i.e. this Service) states that we are a "scheme under 
which certain disputes may be resolved quickly and with minimum formality by an 
independent person"; and
Section 226 (concerning the FOS's compulsory jurisdiction) which confirms that the 
compulsory jurisdiction applies to the "act or omission" complained about, assuming the 
other requirements of the compulsory jurisdiction regime are satisfied.Ive no disagreement with Quilter about these provisions. But I think Quilter takes too narrow 
a view of this Services approach. FSMA also says the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
should make rules for us, which mean that we shouldn't look at a complaint if a consumer 
hasnt communicated its 'substance' to the business.
So, its not about the way Mrs B has expressed her complaint, but its about what the crux or 
substance of what her concern is really about. The DISP rules required Quilter to look fairly 
at the 'subject matter', get more information when it needed to and be both thorough and 
impartial. The rules also stress it had to look at all the evidence, and the specific 
circumstances of her complaint.
I think its helpful at this point to review how Mrs B informed this Service about her case in 
January 2019. Quilter received a copy of her complaint form. When asked what her 
complaint was about, she said:
1. Renewal Fee's which were charged but not in line with our discussions with the IFA or 
product documentation at the time.
2. Both of us had investment funds held on a side account, for which no statements or 
notification of charges is advised to the customer.
3. Money taken from [Mr Bs] SIPP by the IFA without due authorisation.
4. From the date of the initial investment, performance was presented in a mis-leading 
manner, overstating performance & excluding charges. 
5. We were not advised that the investment product was dependent on having a permanent 
IFA as part of the service. This has meant we have had to incur additional costs in liquidating 
the portfolio.
6. Whether the IFA was actually authorised to provided pensions advice.
7. Whether a Discretionary Fund Management product which can lose up to 33% (IFAs 
figures) of its value is a suitable pension product for someone in [Mr Bs] case was 2 years & 
[Mr Bs] 7 years from retirement.
8. On [Mrs Bs] pension the initial investment was not made for a period of a month during 
which the Pension Fund rose 2%.
9. On [Mrs Bs] complaint response from [Quilter] Head Office it makes reference to Risk 
Questionnaire Responses. Neither of us were ever asked or completed such a 
questionnaire. 
Mrs B notes that given the limited space shed kept the description of her complaint brief. 
And it was clear she was dissatisfied with the final response shed had from Quilter.
As Quilter knows, this Service has an inquisitorial remit to identify the root cause of any 
complaint. This service must think about what lies at the heart of a dispute and look at the 
whole picture. This approach was recognised in court in R (Williams) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWHC 2142:
"The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is 
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can 
operate."
And Section 228 (2) of FSMA provides that:
A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.Leaving aside the merits of the concerns asserted by Mrs B for one moment, its clear these 
were wide ranging and fundamental. For example, encompassing matters such as the fees 
associated with the arrangement being out of kilter with what she was led to believe before 
transfer, the suitability of the DFM arrangement, issues around the risk appetite assessment 
process and the status of the adviser.
So, theres a strong argument that the root cause of some of the matters Mrs B raised relate 
directly to the suitability of the advice provided by Quilter for her to transfer her OPS benefits 
into a SIPP with a DFM facility, and the arrangements it made for this to happen.
Even if I thought Quilter was right about this Service having taken too wide a view of the 
complaint Mrs B brought  and I dont - Im surprised it maintains that its unfair and 
unreasonable for me to investigate an act or omission (the transfer of her pension) about 
which it says Mrs B has expressed no dissatisfaction, indeed with which it says as far as it 
was aware, she remained satisfied. I say this because on her complaint form to this Service, 
Mrs B was asked how she thought the Quilter should put things right. She said (bolding is 
my emphasis):
Reform of the way in which initial investments are presented by [Quilter]/Brewin Dolphin as 
they mis-represent performance to other investors (existing & in future). Re-imbursement of 
costs associated with point 5 & 8. Answer to points 6, 7 & 9 given my Head Office complaint 
to [Quilter] yielded an unsatisfactory response. The fact we now appear to have 
uncovered an example of a document (Risk Review) which has been created without 
us ever being originally consulted also raises concerns. Are there other documents/ 
procedures which have not been correctly handled? The service we have experienced has 
left us questioning the basis on which much of the advice was given
I think a straight-forward reading of Mrs Bs complaint, makes clear this Service can consider 
her complaint. And given the specific circumstances of her case and thinking about the root 
cause of some of the issues shes raised, Im satisfied that not to review Quilters advice to 
Mrs B to transfer her OPS benefits into a SIPP with a DFM facility would be wrong.
In her most recent submission, Mrs B sets out in 15 pages of testimony why she is deeply 
unhappy with Quilters advice, arrangements made and service. Ive not relied on this in my 
decision - it simply reinforces what I established in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied Quilter has had an opportunity to fully respond to the broader matters raised in 
this case, including the suitability of its advice to Mrs B. Indeed, its of note in its own final 
response letter to Mrs B, it stated that as part of the investigation process it had reviewed the 
illustrations and personal information obtained from her at the time of the advice along with 
the report it issued confirming why its advice was suitable for her circumstances. And in its 
concluding remarks it said the following:
The recommendation to transfer yourFinal Salary Pension to an Old Mutual Wealth SIPP 
met your needs and objectives at the time of providing a safe haven for your retirement 
funds given all the uncertainty surrounding the future of [your former employer]. This also 
provided a flexible environment to meet your future needs, as you planned to reduce your 
hours as you approached retirement and could use Flexi-Access Drawdown and the Tax 
Free Cash to subsidise your income requirements at this point, something the Old Mutual 
Wealth SIPP would allow you to do.
Quilter itself decided the suitability of its advice was a matter it would address in responding 
to Mrs Bs complaint. I think it was right to do so. It would be odd if the focus of this Service 
had been as narrower. And actually, if shed subsequently returned to what had happened at 
some future date, Quilter might then have argued it had already responded in the round, 
leaving her vulnerable to falling foul of rules about not having brought her case in time.In responses to the investigators view, Quilter has provided detailed arguments about why 
its advice was sound. And following my provisional decision, its had another opportunity to 
provide evidence and arguments in response to my initial findings and conclusions, which it 
has done.
It follows that Im satisfied the approach this Service has taken to investigate Mrs Bs 
complaint has been appropriate in the circumstances. And Quilter hasnt been subject to 
unfair process.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mrs Bs case?
Quilter has raised a serious concern that my provisional decision was based on my own 
subjective views about what I considered to have been suitable and without proper regard to 
the material law, rules and guidance. Clearly if this had been the case it wouldve been 
wrong. But I dont think its charge withstands scrutiny.
Lets consider some of the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Quilter for Mrs B. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Quilter. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
At the time of the advice Quilter gave Mrs B, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Quilter was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mrs B to be able to 
make an informed decision.
- Give Mrs B a copy of the comparison, drawing her attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mrs B understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.In simple terms, Quilter had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mrs B on what to do.
In giving a personal recommendation about the transfer, Quilter had to inform Mrs B about 
the loss of safeguarded benefits under her OPS and the consequent transfer of risk from her 
employers scheme to her own SIPP. For example, the potential for returns from her new 
personal pension to fall short of the benefits she couldve enjoyed in her OPS.
Quilter couldnt regard a rate of return which might replicate the benefits being given up by 
Mrs B in her OPS as sufficient in itself to make a recommendation to transfer. It had to 
prepare a suitability report including a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its 
recommendation; an analysis of the financial implications to transfer; and a summary of any 
other material information such as the risks involved.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
did Quilter meet its regulatory obligations when it provided advice to Mrs B to transfer her 
OPS pension benefits?
Quilter believes it met its regulatory obligations to Mrs B. It says it provided advice which a 
financial adviser acting reasonably might have provided. And that it didnt think all 
reasonable advisers wouldve advised against the transfer. It said care was taken to ensure 
she was able to make a properly informed decision, having been provided with the 
necessary suitability assessment, information, advice, comparisons and risk warnings.
Quilter notes that meeting these regulatory obligations was not to guarantee or ensure, 
particularly with the benefit of hindsight, that the transfer of Mrs Bs OPS would prove to be 
suitable for her, or by reference to an alternative subjective assessment of what was or 
might have been suitable. While it remained satisfied that it was a suitable transaction, it was 
only required to "take reasonable steps" to ensure that the transfer was suitable.
Quilter also says the provision in COBS 19.1.6 doesnt mean that every transfer from a final 
salary scheme is unsuitable or justify an assumption by this Service that they are.
Its reasonable for Quilter to make its case, and Ill address its arguments as I proceed in this 
decision. First though, I think its helpful to set out some contextual information at this point.
There are various documents supplied by Quilter relating to its transaction with Mrs B that 
are important to my consideration, in particular the fact-find, pension transfer analysis report 
and its suitability report.
At the time of the event complained about Mrs B was 46 and wanted to retire when she 
reached 55. Her husband was six years older and was planning to stop work in three years. 
Mrs and Mr B wanted a joint income in retirement of around £35,000 in order to live 
comfortably.At the time of Quilters advice Mrs B was co-director of a business with her husband. She 
had taken a salary of £10,600 and £27,000 in dividends from the company during the 
previous financial year.
Mrs B owned her own home. Excluding her pension, she had personal savings and 
investments worth around £100,000. Her OPS, which had a CETV of around £360,000, was 
her only pension provision. In terms of liabilities, she had a small mortgage and loan to 
service. She had no financial dependents.
Quilter reviewed Mrs Bs circumstances, objectives and risk appetite.
Quilter said in its recent submission that my provisional decision didnt address how Mrs B 
wouldve achieved her stated objectives had the transfer of her OPS benefits not proceeded. 
I think its looking through a single lens here  Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs objectives were variously described in Quilters suitability report. Most substantively 
in the Needs and Objectives section, as follows:
You stated that you would like to have a joint income in retirement of around £35,000 per 
annum in order to live comfortably.
You would therefore like me to look at your options surrounding your Co-op PACE Plan to 
meet the following objectives:
This section of the report then goes onto list those objectives including the transfer of Mrs 
Bs pension into a SIPP; the target joint income; the ability to take benefits flexibly; to invest 
funds through a DFM arrangement; the provision of a lump sum death benefit for her 
husband if she were to pass; and information about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and 
plans.
So, the objectives Quilter refers to were actually a mix of ends and means, with various 
pieces of information to provide context. It was Quilters role to discern what Mrs Bs wants 
and needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what she wanted without any 
critical thinking. It needed to probe and test. It had to use due care and skill. It had to do 
these things because it had to act in her best interests.
The suitability report Quilter issued in April 2017 is helpful in understanding how effectively it 
managed this process and met its obligations. Its adviser said:
I recommend that you: 
-Transfer your pension into an Old Mutual Wealth SIPP.
-Use Brewin Dolphin as discretionary fund managers who will provide a bespoke 
personal investment service, giving you access to a fund that provides you capital 
growth, income or the combination of these.
In summarising the rationale for his recommendations, the adviser said:
As discussed, you should transfer your Final Salary Pensionto enable:
-You to have the ability to take lump sums in the future when you require them
-You to have a modern contract with explicit charges-Greater death benefits which is of greatest importance to you
-To relieve your concerns about the Co-op banks future, and how this may impact 
your pension scheme.
So, its appropriate to examine this reasoning which Quilter provided when it recommended 
the transfer of Mrs Bs OPS.
It seems clear Mrs B and her husband did want to change their work/life balance, and for 
reasons that were understandable. In particular Mr B had been seriously ill in the previous 
decade. They wanted to spend more time together enjoying life, including for holidays and 
hobbies. Mrs B was going to reduce the hours she worked, which would cut their company 
turnover. So, I can see why she wanted flexibility in how she took benefits from her pension.
However, while Mr B was just a couple of years away from retiring, Mrs B was only 46 and 
wouldnt have accessed her pension benefits until she was 55 at the earliest. A lot can 
happen in nine years, and Im not satisfied Quilter demonstrated that it was clearly in her 
best interests to transfer at that time, as it was required to do.
Rather than taking the decision to transfer from her OPS in 2017, she couldve waited for 
several years until she was much closer to the point at which she wouldve been able to 
access benefits from her fund. That wouldve mitigated a number of significant risks and 
costs, which she took on immediately the transfer had taken effect.
In a recent submission, Quilter noted the strongest argument it had for the recommendation 
it gave Mrs B to transfer her OPS was a comparison of the benefits offered by her former 
scheme at age 55 with the benefits available based on the CETV on offer of around 
£360,000. It noted the transfer value was very high and that she should take advantage of it 
as financially it was in her interests and such generous terms might not have been available 
in the future.
On this point, Id simply observe that whether or not Mrs B wouldve received a better CETV 
quotation years later and nearer her retirement is a matter of speculation. And even if I 
accepted that the transfer value was exceptional, that wouldnt necessarily make it in her 
interests to transfer her OPS benefits. What mattered was how the benefit packages 
compared.
Quilter said that assuming modest investment growth in her transferred fund over the nine 
years until she reached 55, at that point shed be able to take TFC of around £112,000 and 
an annuity income  if she chose that option - of around £10,100. These outcomes 
compared to equivalent benefits available from her OPS at 55 for TFC of £45,000 and an 
annual income of about £6,800.
Quilter paints a favourable picture here. But it hasnt shared how it constructed certain 
figures, nor some of the underlying assumptions attaching to them. Its reasonable and more 
appropriate for me to consider the contemporaneous information available at the time of its 
advice to Mrs B. A key document in this regard is the transfer value analysis (TVAS) report it 
commissioned.
An important metric in the report was the critical yield calculation  essentially the level of 
returns her new SIPP funds would need to achieve in order for the transfer to match the 
OPS benefits she could reasonably have anticipated at retirement.Quilter agreed that critical yields were a material yardstick. But it said these assumed 
benefits would be taken on a single specific date in the form of an annuity. It said this wasnt 
likely to be Mrs Bs choice and that annuity purchases were uncommon given the flexible 
ways in which pension benefits can now be taken and given annuities represent very poor 
value in comparative terms.
Helpfully, as well as providing some standard critical yield analysis (which Quilter recognises 
as a material benchmark), the TVAS report it commissioned did provided some wider 
information  for example in relation to the effect of a drawdown approach to taking benefits.
The TVAS report found that if Mrs B was to retire at 65, the normal retirement date (NRD) for 
her OPS scheme, then the critical yield required was 4.7%. The equivalent figure for 
retirement at 55 (her desired retirement date at the time) was 4.55%. Both figures assume 
she wouldve taken TFC. Had that not been the case the returns required wouldve been 
higher at 5.56% and 6.23% respectively.
Its of note Quilter acknowledged in the suitability report produced for Mrs B that the critical 
yield figures were higher than the mid-rate assumption of returns it had used  so it was 
unlikely to be achievable. This was the case whether or not she took TFC. And whether or 
not she retired at 65 or at 55.
The TVAS report also provided various comparisons for Mrs B between the value of pension 
benefits in her OPS against what could be achieved through her SIPP. One of these was 
provided for the scenario outlined in Quilters latest submission  Mrs B taking retirement at 
55 and her maximum TFC.
Here the figures compare the TFC of £45,000 and annual pension of £6,800 with outcomes 
under her new arrangements of TFC of £109,000 (a better outcome than her OPS) an 
annuity of £6,300 (a worse outcome than her OPS) or an annual drawdown of £8,200 (with 
funds running out when she reached 84 years old).
It should be noted, these results from the TVAS are based on the highest projected growth 
rate of 5.36%, and so most favourable to Quilter in the position it advances. Even on this 
unlikely basis I dont think the proposal was clearly in Mrs Bs best interest. And we know it 
had said in the suitability report even the lower critical yield rates were unlikely to be 
achievable.
Further, the TVAS report illustrates what would happen if Mrs B were to transfer her benefits, 
assuming she opted to draw down an annual income equal to what she wouldve received 
through her OPS, assuming her funds grew at the medium rate of return. This found that if 
she retired at 65, her funds would run out when she reached 79. And that if she retired at 55, 
her funds would be exhausted when she reached 80 if she didnt take TFC, and 82 if she 
did.
As Quilter noted in its suitability report:
The current average life expectancy for a female in your local area is 84 using figures from 
the Office of National Statistics. However, the range of ages at which people die in your local 
area is very large and it is prudent to plan that you will live longer than the average life 
expectancy.
Taken together, I think the analysis shows that Quilters most recent arguments about the 
case for Mrs B to transfer on the grounds of the CETV lacks balance.Quilters advice was given during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount 
rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension 
transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when 
giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
wouldve been considered reasonably achievable.
The lowest critical yield outlined in the TVAS report, required to match Mrs Bs OPS at 
retirement, was around 4.55% per year. When the advice was given, the relevant discount 
rate was 3.5% per year where there were around eight years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower rate 2% per year.
I've taken these matters into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, Mrs Bs suggested attitude to risk and also the term to her planned retirement. Even on 
this basis, she was likely to receive broadly a similar level of benefits to her OPS at 
retirement.
Quilter noted concerns expressed by the FCA in 2017 that firms were attaching too much 
weight to critical yields and using these as the basis for advice. The FCA went on to state:
"We would expect the firm to consider the likely expected returns of the assets in which the 
clients funds will be invested relative to the critical yield. The firm should also consider the 
personal circumstances of the client before making any personal recommendation, taking 
into account specific other factors as they apply to the client." 
I agree with Quilter that there are a number of key factors to consider when advising on the 
transfer of OPS benefits. For example, the transfer of risk. Im not satisfied based on what 
Ive seen that in transferring her OPS benefits and giving up certain guarantees and 
protections, only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme was in 
Mrs Bs interests. Remember, she would be moving from a position where her OPS scheme 
provider was taking most of the risk to one where she would be taking on considerable risk.
I agree with Quilter when it says we shouldnt make an assumption that all transfers of OPS 
benefits are unsuitable. There will be individual circumstances where these transactions 
make sense. But its worth remembering the regulatory guidance states that a firm should be 
able to clearly demonstrate its in a clients best interests to give up guaranteed benefits. 
Unfortunately for Quilter, it hasnt done that in terms of the benefits on offer or the risk 
allocation to Mrs B.
Quilter said another important reason for transferring to a personal pension plan was that 
Mrs B would have a modern contract with explicit charges. Its not really clear what it meant 
by a modern contract, but I agree it was important for her to be able to understand the 
charges for the new arrangement. Thats not simply in absolute terms, but also in 
comparison with her OPS and in terms of the impact they had on her fund.
Mrs B had no fees to pay with her OPS. Under the new personal pension Quilter 
recommended, she would be incurring an annual advice fee of 1% of the value of her fund; 
an annual management fee and underlying investment charges for the DFM arrangement in 
excess of 1.4% of the value of her fund; and charges from the SIPP provider for 
administration of around £400 per year with additional transaction-based fees.
Of course, Mrs B had a reasonably sized pension fund and the arrangements being 
proposed were quite involved. Different organisations were working together in her interests 
to try and make sure she benefitted from good investment returns and that everything was well managed. Such activity comes with a price tag. But the significant fees and charges 
outlined would inevitably been a drag on the performance of her funds.
I can see the various fees were identified in the suitability report. Ive no reason to believe 
Mrs B wouldnt have understood what these meant in absolute terms. And I can see Quilter 
delivered a separate report in February 2017, which illustrated the impact of the charges on 
her funds. However, I wouldve expected to see this analysis in its suitability report where all 
matters were brought together. I find its absence was a weakness in its approach.
I turn now to the death benefits associated with Mrs Bs pension arrangements. Not only had 
her husband been very poorly, I can see that she suffered from two significant chronic 
illnesses. So, its not surprising these matters were at the top of her mind. The ability to 
leave a lump sum to her partner in the event of her passing was said to be a priority.
I understand why people want to make sure their loved ones are properly provided for in the 
worst-case scenario, its a natural and strong instinct. Quilters role here was to advise her 
dispassionately about the situation she realistically faced and the implications for her and her 
husband. It needed to make clear the value of the benefits she had already in her OPS, 
compared to what might be available if she transferred. And it had to make clear what the 
risks were with such a course of action.
As Id expect, Quilter detailed the position on pre and post retirement death benefits under 
Mrs Bs OPS and in the new arrangement it was recommending. It noted that Mr B already 
benefitted from his own significant pension assets. And I can see Mrs B seemed to have well 
developed ideas in this area, as she communicated after receiving the suitability report from 
Quilter:
In this regard we are taking professional advice at present as to how we can pass down our 
pension and other assets to beneficiaries after my [] death through the creation of Trusts 
etc. So, the intention is to create a lasting legacy that would not be possible on the pension 
element if we stayed in the Bank scheme.
Although there was the potential for Mr B to receive a large lump sum in the unhappy 
circumstance of his wifes passing, from the new arrangements being proposed, the value of 
this was subject to unpredictable investment performance and charges. The spouses 
pension under Mrs Bs OPS was guaranteed and unlike, say, drawdown via a SIPP, didnt 
carry the risk of being exhausted due to longevity.
I think a comparison of capitalised benefits over different time horizons wouldve been 
helpful to Mrs B here to have properly compared what was on offer.
Im also mindful that that Quilter had recently taken Mr B through an exercise to put in place 
new pension arrangements for him. This meant hed soon have flexible access to a sizeable 
fund. It wasnt a matter that hed be financially exposed in the event of Mrs B passing after 
hed retired.
Lets also consider what we understand about Mrs Bs health. She said she was in 
reasonable health and was a non-smoker. While she had two chronic illnesses, she wasnt 
taking any medication for these. Had there been any immediate issues Im sure these 
wouldve been brought out in the discussions with Quilter.
Quilter did inform Mrs B that the then current average life expectancy for a female in her 
local area was 84 (based on figures from the Office of National Statistics). And it noted the 
range of ages at which people died was very large, so it would be prudent to plan on the basis shed live longer than the average life expectancy. I think this was sound advice. It was 
also the case that in the given circumstances, she was likely to outlive her husband.
Fundamentally, the main purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement. Other 
considerations, like death benefits, inheritance and providing for a legacy are secondary to 
that, particularly given Mrs B was said to be in good health. Her fund was likely to be needed 
to support her for decades to come.
I think Quilters role was to help Mrs B understand the risks and consequences of placing too 
much weight in her retirement planning on the unlikely event of her passing. And Im not 
persuaded that the unquantified, uncertain potential gains on death benefits outweighed all 
other considerations in this case, sufficient for Quilter to recommend the transfer.
Quilter took issue with my conclusion here. It said its suitability report made clear death 
benefits was one factor of a number of key considerations that needed to be looked at in the 
round. Theres no dispute between us here. My intent, and I apologise for being unclear, was 
to say that given the issues Ive found with other areas of its advice, even though there may 
have been potential advantages in respect of death benefits of the new arrangements it had 
recommended to Mrs B, these alone wouldnt justify the transfer.
Mrs B made it clear that the main reason for considering the transfer of her OPS into a 
personal pension plan was her concern about the future viability of her former employer. 
There had been speculation in the press about what may happen to the organisation at the 
time. And she was worried about the impact this could have on her OPS and the benefits 
that would be payable to her in the future.
I agree with the investigators findings in this area. Theres no doubt Mrs Bs former 
employer was at the centre of a media storm concerning the conduct of its then chairman. 
And there were wider concerns about its performance and financial health. She was worried 
about the potential impact on her and her husbands personal wealth.
Quilters suitability report had a section My recommendation to transfer. The section was 
eight and a half pages long, detailing its rationale for why Mrs B should transfer her OPS 
benefits. I note it dedicated around five pages of this to rehearsing speculation in the media 
about the possible fate of Mrs Bs former employer.
I find Quilters approach lacked balance. I wouldve expected it to have provided greater 
prominence and coherence to the following matters:
- Mrs Bs former employer and the pension scheme were separate legal entities. This 
meant the assets within her OPS wouldnt have been directly affected by a collapse 
of the bank.
- Scheme funding was last officially estimated in 2013 with the overall funding position 
being assessed at 93%, and at the time of the advice latest estimates indicated this 
had risen to 97%. Ive seen no evidence her OPS was in imminent danger.
- In the worst-case scenario if Mrs Bs scheme became insolvent, then the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF) wouldve stepped in providing cover for up to 90% of her 
pension.
So, while I recognise Mrs B was concerned about the situation at her former employer, 
Quilter shouldve explained in a more balanced way this was not itself a valid reason for her 
to transfer out of her OPS.Id observe that in the same section of the suitability report Quilter set out the disadvantages 
of Mrs B transferring out of her final salary scheme. It dedicated a single paragraph and two 
bullet points to this.
Ive considered Quilters approach to assessing Mrs Bs risk outlook. I note that when she 
complained to this Service, she disputed that shed ever completed a risk questionnaire. It 
seems more likely than not such an exercise was completed, perhaps with the adviser 
dealing with the mechanics using information obtained from her during conversations to 
enable that to happen.
I say this because on page 6 of the suitability report she received it said the following:
In considering an investment strategy of any type, it is critical that you establish how you 
feel about investment risk in relation to the investment objective and that you are 
comfortable with the risk attaching [to] any proposed investment vehicle.We discussed 
your circumstances in relation to the principles of risk and reward in respect of your pension 
planning both near and in the long term and agreed your risk profile is dynamic.
Dynamic investors typically have quite high levels of financial knowledge. They will usually 
be experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the past. In 
general, Dynamic investors are happy to take investment risk and understand this is crucial 
in terms of generating long-term return. They are willing to take risk with most of their 
available assets. Dynamic investors will usually be able to make up their minds on financial 
matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn out badly, 
they are able to accept that occasional poor returns are a necessary part of long-term 
investment.
I think Mrs B wouldve questioned what this important section was all about if the matters it 
set out had never been discussed.
On the other hand, while Mrs B did have savings and investments, which indicates she 
wasnt a novice, I havent seen evidence to suggest she was a very experienced or a 
sophisticated investor. So, for example, when Quilter recommended a DFM, its not clear 
she fully appreciated the benefit v cost trade-off of the arrangement.
I think its significant that Quilter noted Mrs Bs husband had recently entered into the same 
DFM agreement. Both ended up with similar arrangements, despite their different 
circumstances. For example, in terms of the time horizon until retirement, age, the size of 
their pots and the nature of their health conditions.
Did the transaction with Mr B serve too far as a template for the service provided to Mrs B? 
Taking a view of Mr and Mrs B as a household together, were all their eggs effectively being 
put in the same basket? Quilter was in a position to consider and provide a view on these 
matters, but its not clear to me this was done.
The suitability report also noted Mrs B and her husband had previously worked for a bank in 
a number of senior management positions. It was recorded that they felt their combined work 
and life experiences had given them sufficient knowledge to understand the complex area of 
pensions, and the risks involved in moving a final salary pension scheme.
But Quilter couldnt take such an assertion at face value. Just because someone worked in 
financial services doesnt make them an expert in pension transfers, which it knows is a 
complex and specialist area. Indeed, Mrs B was paying a lot of money for its expertise and 
insight.Quilter had to analyse, test, challenge and advise Mrs B about what was in her best interest 
for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide an 
income in retirement.
As Quilter identified:
Risk attitude is only one factor in determining a suitable investment strategy. Potential loss 
must also be considered in relation to the investor's financial objectives and risk capacity.
Unfortunately, I cant see that Quilter then went on to assess Mrs Bs capacity for loss in a 
meaningful way. Although she had around nine years until she intended taking benefits from 
her fund, it knew her OPS was her only pension provision. And while she did have a good 
level of savings and investments, Im not satisfied this mitigated her retirement planning 
position substantially.
So, overall, I think there are weaknesses in Quilters assessment of Mrs Bs risk appetite and 
capacity in relation to her retirement planning.
The final matter Ill turn to is the communication Mrs B sent to Quilter, which it provided in 
response to the investigators view. The email dated 8 April 2017 sets out in some detail why 
she wanted to proceed with the transfer of her OPS benefits into the Old Mutual Wealth 
SIPP.
I can understand why Quilter refers to this letter. In it Mrs B confirms she had read and 
understood the suitability report and asks for the transfer to proceed. She provides the 
context of the challenges she and her husband have faced over the past 20 years. She also 
identifies the key drivers for her decision, prime amongst these were her concerns about the 
financial stability of her former employer. She also highlights her desire for flexibility to 
access her fund from when she reaches 55 and to manage death benefits.
The problem for Quilter is that it recommended Mrs B should transfer her OPS into the Old 
Mutual Wealth SIPP and put in place a DFM arrangement. She couldnt be said to have 
been an insistent client. I think its more likely than not she was effectively reflecting back 
what it had already confirmed in its report, which was arguably too focussed on facilitating 
what she told it she wanted, rather than providing effective advice.
I also have two observations about Mrs Bs statement of her wish to proceed with the 
pension transfer. I note it follows closely the content of a similar earlier letter her husband 
had sent to Quilter about his transfer.
Further, the email Quilter shared with us shows its compliance function wasnt satisfied with 
an earlier email shed sent. Its chosen not to share the full set of exchanges between 
parties, from its initial commission of the letter from Mrs B and including the interaction with 
her and internal colleagues on the matter.
Mrs B has provided us with further information in this area which reinforces my concerns. 
She has shown us a copy of a note she was sent by Quilter, which provided example client 
responses. In seeking responses to its suitability reports from clients, Quilter should be 
seeking authentic views, in customers own words. There are obvious potential risks here in 
its process it will want to review.
Overall, and on balance, I think Quilter shouldve provided Mrs B with an explicit 
recommendation not to proceed with the transfer of her OPS benefits into the Old Mutual 
Wealth SIPP, the purpose of which was to put in place a DFM overseeing a high-risk 
portfolio of investments.I say this because Mrs Bs main reason for transferring was her concern about the status of 
her OPS provider, Im not satisfied Quilter did enough to help her understand the real risk 
here. Rather, its suitability tackled this matter with a lack of balance.
Ive also found that while Mrs B mayve had a firm idea about the need for her to be able to 
take benefits flexibly from her pension funds, the fact is she was nine years away from even 
that earliest retirement date  a date that couldve slipped somewhat. I cant see there was a 
pressing need to opt out at the point Quilter recommended she should.
The new arrangements recommended by Quilter meant that Mrs B would incur substantial 
charges, for its financial advice, the costs of the SIPP and for the DFM facility. And given the 
analysis it commissioned, it knew that there was a significant risk that relative to her OPS 
provisions, the value of her pension provision would be eroded over this period.
Leaving aside the problems Ive identified with Quilters assessment of Mrs Bs risk appetite 
and capacity, that leaves the potential for her husband to secure more in death benefits from 
the new arrangements in certain narrow circumstances. I dont think this residual matter is 
enough to justify the transfer from her OPS.
Quilters advice doesnt meet the regulatory test of demonstrating that the new arrangements 
were clearly in Mrs Bs best interests. I dont think the transfer of her OPS benefits into the 
Old Mutual Wealth SIPP with the DFM arrangement overseeing a high-risk portfolio of funds 
could reasonably be regarded as suitable. 
If quilter had given Mrs B effective advice to remain with her OPS scheme, I think its more 
likely than not she wouldve acted on its recommendation. I say this because its unusual for 
a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the recommendations 
received.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair to uphold this complaint 
against Quilter and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Quilter Financial Services Ltd to put Mrs B, as 
far as possible, into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider 
she wouldve remained in the occupational scheme. Quilter Financial Services Ltd must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on 
Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. Im aware that 
Quilter made an offer to Mrs B of £2,000 when it first responded to her complaint. I 
understand that she rejected the offer and payment was never made, and on that basis no 
adjustment would be required here to the compensation amount.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay her.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If Mrs B is due any redress after review of her case using the FCA methodology, I dont 
know what that will be. So, I need to make sure shes aware of this Services compensation 
limits in case they apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Decision and money award
I require Quilter Financial Services Ltd pay Mrs B the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt 
exceed £150,000, I additionally require Quilter to pay Mrs B any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Quilter to pay 
Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation:
If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that Quilter pays Mrs B 
the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to her.
If Mrs B accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Quilter. My recommendation is 
not binding on it. Further, its unlikely that she can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Bs, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference. 
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Quilters actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
In recognition of this I thought Quilter should pay Mrs B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced. Mrs B thought this amount should be higher given the 
extent of the worry and trouble shed been caused by its failings.
Ive thought carefully about what shes said. I recognise the points shes made. Im mindful 
however that she wasnt at or near retirement. And Im satisfied that £300 is reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to put things right in the way Ive indicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman