DRN-2375358
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the vehicle she acquired through a finance agreement with Vauxhall 
Finance plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and end the 
agreement.
What happened
Mrs B is represented in this complaint by Mr C, but for ease of reading Ill just refer to her.
Mrs B tells us that she acquired her new vehicle in May 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to a G. 
She states that she first complained in August 2019 about the engine management light 
(EML) illuminating. Mrs B states that the vehicle has been returned to G on four occasions 
with the recurring problem. She states that G agreed to accept the rejection of the vehicle 
and thats why it was returned to it on 2 October 2019.
Mrs B says that she expressed surprise when Vauxhall then started asking her for payments 
when shed already rejected the vehicle and returned it. She states that having rejected the 
vehicle she then entered a financial agreement for a replacement vehicle that she sourced 
elsewhere. Mrs B explains that she received an email on 13 November advising that G had 
repaired her previous vehicle and saying it was ready for collection. Despite having said she 
didnt want it she says she was compelled by G to have the vehicle returned to her on 9 
March 2020. Mrs B states that the odometer reading as of 5 October 2020 is 7,300 miles.
Vauxhall issued a final response letter on 12 November 2019. It said that the vehicle had 
been seen by G on only two occasions. On 4 August, when a fault code had been cleared. 
And on 9 September, when no repairs had been carried out. Its since provided an 
explanation from G that there was a fault with the gas temperature sensor. And this required 
replacing. It said the part needed to be ordered and there was a delay in this being supplied 
which was outside Gs control.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 October 2020. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. I found that the vehicle had not been of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And also that thered been an unreasonable delay in repairs being carried 
out.
Since my provisional decision was issued Vauxhall replied saying it had nothing to add but 
noting that no payments had been made on the agreement since August 2019. Mrs B replied 
accepting the provisional decision.  I thank both parties for their responses. As no new 
material information has been provided, Im not minded to change my provisional decision 
which is largely repeated in my final decision set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs B experienced problems with this vehicle so soon after she acquired it. 
With a new vehicle shed no doubt expected an extended period of trouble-free use. To 
encounter problems so soon would be particularly disappointing.
Mrs Bs complaint is that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. And that 
having agreed with G that she could reject the vehicle - and having returned it - she then 
acquired a vehicle from a different source. Only then to find that G and Vauxhall wouldnt 
accept the rejection. This left Mrs B with two finance agreements to pay and in financial 
difficulty.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. In the case of a new vehicle it 
would be expected to be free from even minor defects.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at the time of supply. This presumption 
applies unless its proved that the goods did conform to contract at the time of supply.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Although the FRL issued by Vauxhall suggested that there were no faults with the vehicle 
that has now been shown to be incorrect. The recent explanation from G states that the gas 
temperature sensor needed to be replaced. And that the issue hadnt been identified on two 
occasions. Although G explains it was following a procedure which was required if the part 
was to be replaced through the manufacturers warranty, I dont think this directly affects if 
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs B shouldnt have been placed in a position of the EML illuminating without her knowing 
what the cause was. She sought to reject the vehicle on 19 September 2019. And the 
information Ive seen suggests that the vehicle was returned to G on 2 October. At that time 
Mrs B believed that her earlier rejection of the vehicle had been accepted.
G then sent an email to Mrs B dated 13 November which read:We can confirm that your vehicle has been fully repaired under the terms of the 
manufacturers warranty and ready to return to you. We regret to advise therefore that we 
are unable to accept your claim to reject the vehicle and hope we can look forward to you 
collecting it at the earliest opportunity.
As the first report of any issues with the vehicle came after the short term right to reject 
(within 30 days of supply) had expired, the CRA permits the supplier to have one opportunity 
to repair the vehicle so that it conforms to contract.
Here, Mrs B afforded G two chances to repair it, as its not disputed the vehicle was seen 
twice prior to the 2 October. And G now accepts that the issue was not identified on these 
two occasions. The fact that G didnt at first identify the fault that it now accepts was present 
doesnt change things or provide an extended right to repair.
The CRA also requires repairs to be carried out within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer. The first reported issue was in early August 2019 
and the vehicle wasnt repaired until mid-November, which is well over three months. The 
fact that the part had to be sourced from the manufacturer and that the delay was outside 
Gs control doesnt alter Mrs Bs rights under the CRA. In my opinion, the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
Even if Mrs B hadnt sought to reject the vehicle in September - and had agreed to repairs - 
Id have found that the vehicle not being repaired until November amounted to an 
unreasonable delay. And by having to source a replacement vehicle elsewhere she was 
clearly caused significant inconvenience.
For these reasons I find shes entitled to reject the vehicle and end the agreement. The 
vehicle was seemingly returned to her  albeit against Mrs Bs wishes - in March 2020 and 
has been used since that time. So its fair and reasonable she should have to make some 
payments to reflect the use thats since been made of the vehicle. 
Ive seen information to show that the odometer reading was 7,300 on 5 October 2020. This 
indicates well below the average use which wed normally expect. This is usually estimated 
at between 8,000 and 12,000 miles per year. I think that the return of 50 % of monthly 
payments to reflect those periods when the vehicle was not with Mrs B or her use of it was 
impaired is fair and reasonable. Vauxhall may retain the other 50% of monthly payments for 
fair use.
Vauxhall has indicated that it hasnt received any payments on the agreement since August 
2019. In determining the total amount to be refunded to Mrs B it should calculate the sum as 
follows:
Refund 50% of those monthly payments which were made. Together with the total deposit 
which I understand from the agreement and sales invoice is £2,368 cash and £1,300 part 
exchange proceeds (£3,668).
For monthly payments which accrued before the date of termination and were not paid it 
may charge 50% of those payments to reflect fair use. A pro rata charge can be made for 
any period of less than one month.
These latter sums may be deducted from the total amount repayable to Mrs B. And simple 
interest at the usual rate should then be added to the net amount.
Any adverse entries relating to this agreement must also be removed from Mrs Bs credit file.Putting things right
Vauxhall Finance plc should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs B to pay from date of termination;
2. Arrange collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mrs B;
3. Refund 50 % of any monthly payments made;
4. Refund cash deposit and part-exchange allowance;
5. Waive 50% of monthly payments due but not made; pro rata calculations can be 
used for any period less than one month.
Before making the refund, Vauxhall Finance plc may deduct the 50% of payments due for 
those monthly payments which were not paid from any sums arising from 3 and 4 above. 
And it should pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on the net sum to be refunded.
6. Pay £100 to Mrs B for distress and inconvenience;
7. Arrange for any adverse entries relating to this agreement to be removed from Mrs 
Bs credit file. The agreement should be recorded as settled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement Vauxhall Finance plc is required to take the action which Ive 
stipulated in the immediately preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman