DRN-2721536
The complaint
Mr N and Ms R are unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim 
made against a motor insurance policy they held. 
What happened
Mr N had a motor insurance policy with UKI. He was the main policy holder. Ms R was a 
named driver on the policy.
In January 2020 the vehicle covered by the policy was involved in a collision. Mr N and Ms R 
notified UKI of this on 7 February 2020.
On 27 February 2020 UKI confirmed it would be treating the claim on the basis its 
policyholder was at fault as it said, after reviewing CCTV footage of the collision, the third-
party vehicle was stationary at the time of the incident. The call notes indicate that Mr N and 
Ms R raised concerns that the third party would attempt to claim for damage not caused by 
the accident at that stage. And the notes indicate that UKI recorded these concerns, as well 
as noting that the available footage did suggest the third-party vehicle had pre-existing 
damage.
I can see that Mr N and Ms R then regularly chased UKI to find out what was happening. 
UKI informed them it was waiting for the claim to be submitted by the third party.
UKI were informed in April 2020 by a third-party business, handling the repairs on behalf of 
the third party, that the other vehicle was still in use and repairs had not yet begun.
UKI received an invoice from the third party for repairs in August 2020. The amount claimed 
was slightly less that £4,000. I can see that UKI asked the third party for images to support 
the level of repairs.
Mr N and Ms R continued to contact UKI to find out what was happening. They said they 
disputed the level of costs being claimed by the third party and lodged a complaint with UKI 
saying it should not have agreed to meet the claim made.
UKI sought its own estimate for the repairs and challenged the invoice provided by the third 
party in September 2020. It said it felt a lot of the items claimed for were not related to the 
collision and its estimate of the cost of repairs was just over £1,000, so this is what it was 
willing to offer. 
In response to Mr N and Ms Rs complaint UKI explained it hadnt agreed to pay the claim at 
the level the third party had requested, and the matter was still ongoing.
Mr N and Ms R then asked our service to look into the complaint. They said that they were 
unhappy with how UKI had handled matters. In particular they were unhappy with how long 
the claim had been ongoing  as they said not having the claim resolved and no final figure 
being decided had impacted their insurance premiums with their new insurer. They reiterated 
they were unhappy that UKI had agreed to meet the costs claimed. And they said they were 
unhappy that the claim had impacted their no claims discount (NCD).
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. 
She found that while UKI had agreed it would be paying some costs in relation to the claim it 
had challenged the amount claimed so far on the basis that it didnt think the damage 
claimed for was all related to the collision. She also didnt think the delay in the claim being 
resolved was due to an error by UKI, as shed seen evidence it was waiting for information 
from the third party for the majority of the time matters had been ongoing. So, she didnt 
think UKI was responsible for the claim not being resolved  and any impact this had on 
Mr N and Ms Rs premiums, also noting that the fact this was an at fault claim had likely 
played a part in the premiums increasing. She also said shed seen evidence that 
information about the NCD had been sent by UKI. And she felt the change to the NCD was 
in line with what the policy terms had explained would happen in the event of a claim being 
made.
Mr N and Ms R asked for their complaint to be reviewed again. As a result, it has been 
passed to me to decide.
I note that Mr N and Ms R have mentioned that their policy with UKI was cancelled in March 
2020. But I cant see that they have raised a complaint about this with UKI or asked us to 
look into this matter further. So, I wont be commenting on the cancellation of the policy as 
part of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr N and Ms Rs complaint is they feel UKI has incorrectly agreed to meet the 
third partys claim  specifically the costs claimed which they feel are exaggerated. 
UKI decided that Mr N and Ms R, its policyholder, were at fault in this claim. And with that in 
mind, it accepted that it would have to play a claim. It isnt for me to decide liability in respect 
of the claim, rather to decide if UKI acted fairly. I think UKI based its decision to consider this 
a fault claim on the available, relevant evidence. So, I dont think it has acted unfairly when 
deciding this or that it would meet the third parties claim.
Mr N and Ms R have said that they are unhappy that UKI has agreed to meet the costs 
claimed by the third party, and that these are too high. But the information Ive seen shows 
that UKI has not made a payment in respect of the claim. Indeed, I understand that there is a 
still a dispute ongoing about the amount to be paid under the claim. And that is because UKI 
rejected the amount claimed by the third party and has made a counter offer based on its 
own assessment of the costs involved. So, I cant agree that UKI has incorrectly agreed to 
pay costs above what it should  as it has in fact rejected those costs and continues to 
dispute the amount claimed.
Mr N and Ms R have also said that they are unhappy with how UKI has handled the claim 
and how long this has been ongoing. But I dont think UKI has made an error. Ive seen evidence that UKI was informed of the incident in early February 2020. And later 
that month it confirmed it was treating the matter as a fault claim. It also noted Mr N and 
Ms Rs concerns about the level of the claim at that time, which I think shows it had taken on 
board what they said. The information Ive seen shows that UKI didnt receive an invoice in 
respect of the claim until August 2020, despite it chasing several times. It then conducted its 
own investigation and challenged the amount claimed in September 2020  taking into 
account the evidence Mr N and Ms R provided and highlighted in February 2020. Since then 
it has maintained its position in terms of the costs it is willing to meet, and the matter is 
ongoing.
Taking everything into account I dont think UKI has caused any unnecessary delays or 
handled the claim unreasonably. The information indicates that it was waiting for evidence 
from the third-party for a significant period of time. This was then dealt with promptly by UKI 
when it was received. The claim is still ongoing as there is still a dispute over the amount 
that should be paid. But I dont think this is due to an error by UKI  indeed its continued 
defence and refusal to meet the costs is in line with what Mr N and Ms R wanted. So, I dont 
think UKI has done anything wrong.
Mr N and Ms R have said the claim not being finalised has impacted their premiums with 
their new insurer. But as I dont think UKI is at fault for the claim still being ongoing, I cant 
reasonably say it has to take any action in respect of this. When the claim is settled, Id 
expect UKI to provide confirmation to Mr N and Ms R that they can then provide to their new 
insurer, which might result in it reconsidering the amounts charged. But until the claim is 
settled, I dont think UKI needs to do anything more.
Turning to the impact of the claim on Mr N and Ms Rs no claims discount (NCD), I dont 
think UKI has made an error. Ive seen a copy of the policy terms which explain how the 
NCD will be impacted. UKI has shown that Mr N and Ms R had 3 years NCD at the time of 
the claim and following the claim the NCD was reduced to 1 year. This is in line with the 
terms of the policy. I understand that Mr N and Ms R did not receive the first letter sent to 
them by UKI confirming this. But after UKI was made aware of this, I can see it promptly sent 
a further copy, which I think is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman