DRN-2320562
The complaint
Ms P complains about Capital One (Europe) plc and their decision to approve two separate 
credit card applications.
What happened
In June 2014, Ms P applied for a credit card with Capital One. This application was 
approved, and Ms P received a credit card account with a £1,500 credit limit. In March 2016, 
Ms P applied for a second credit card with Capital One.  The application was again 
approved, and Ms P was given a credit limit of £200.
Unfortunately, Ms P fell into financial difficulty a short while after this. She instructed a third 
party to help her manage her debts. And because of this, Capital One agreed to a 
repayment plan on both accounts. But as the repayment plan was for an amount less than 
her monthly minimum payments, her accounts were defaulted.
In February 2020, Ms P raised a complaint with Capital One. She complained about their 
decision to approve both credit card applications. She felt Capital One had acted 
irresponsibly when doing so and shouldve been aware that shed be unable to maintain the 
minimum payments. So, she wanted Capital to refund her the interest and charges shed 
incurred and removed the defaults from her credit file. She also wanted 8% statutory interest 
on any amount left owing to her after the debts had been paid off using the refund of interest 
and charges.
Capital One didnt agree. They felt theyd completed the necessary checks when approving 
the credit applications. They explained theyd considered her annual income alongside the 
information shown on her credit file. And they thought the credit limits they offered on both 
occasions were fair and took that information into consideration. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Ms P was unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. He thought Capital One had 
acted fairly when approving the first application, and that the checks they completed were 
proportionate to the limit Ms P was provided. So, he didnt think they needed to anything 
more for this. 
But he thought theyd acted unreasonably when approving the second. He explained that, 
although he thought the checks were proportionate, he thought Ms Ps credit file at the time 
of the second application showed a significant increase in the debts she held. He also noted 
that at the time, her credit file showed she had fallen behind with payments on one of the 
accounts. So, he thought Capital One shouldve realised Ms P was struggling financially and 
that shed be unable to manage the second account sustainably. So, he agreed theyd acted 
irresponsibly. And to put things right, he recommended that Capital refund the interest and 
charges Ms P incurred on the second account. And to pay her 8% interest on any amount on 
any positive balance that remained once the refund had been processed. He also 
recommended they should remove any adverse data on Ms Ps credit file relating to the 
second account.
Capital One agreed with this view and the recommended actions. But Ms P still didnt think 
the decision to approve her first application was fair. As Ms P didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms P. Ive seen Ms P sought 
the help of a third party after falling into financially difficulty. And I can appreciate how 
worrying and upsetting this wouldve been. And because of this, I can understand why Ms P 
would look at the credit she took out before and around this time and feel this contributed to 
the circumstances she found herself in. But its my role to consider whether I think Capital 
One did anything wrong. So, Ive considered whether the checks they completed before 
approving her applications were proportionate. And then, even if I feel they were, Ive 
considered whether Capital One assessed the information they had available to them fairly. 
And in this situation, I dont think they did for one of the applications.
Ive seen Ms P escalated her complaint for a decision as she didnt agree with the 
investigators view that the first application, made in 2014, was approved fairly by Capital 
One. As this is the main point of contention, Ive focused on this first.
Ive first considered whether the checks Capital One completed were proportionate. This 
means that the checks they carried out provided a reasonable amount of information 
compared to the £1,500 limit Ms P was given. Ive seen Capital One took into consideration 
Ms Ps employment status, her annual income and the information available on her credit 
file.
Ms Ps annual income was listed as roughly £24, 886 at the time. Which I think meant that 
Ms P took home around £1,600 a month after tax and national insurance is deducted. 
Capital One approved the application and provided Ms P with a £1,500 credit limit. Ive seen 
the credit agreement, which explains that Ms Ps minimum monthly payment would be 1% of 
the overall balance plus interest and charges. Based on Ms Ps account using the entire 
balance of £1,500, Ive calculated that the maximum minimum monthly payment she would 
need to pay would be around £53. This includes the monthly interest a balance of £1,500 
would accrue. Because of this, I dont think it was unreasonable of Capital One to decide a 
credit limit of £1,500 was affordable for Ms P, when they considered her estimated monthly 
income. So, I dont think they needed to complete checks above those they completed and 
the checks they mad were proportionate.
But, as explained above, I still need to be satisfied they assessed all the information they 
had available to them fairly. So, in this situation, that they reviewed the information available 
in her credit file and there was nothing to suggest she had other significant financial 
responsibilities that might prevent her from managing her account in a sustainable way.
Ive looked at the credit file information Capital One had when they approved Ms Ps first 
application. And I dont think there is any information within it that would suggest Ms P was 
struggling financially, or that the application should be declined. While there were several 
defaulted accounts, these were defaulted some time before Ms P made the application. And they had all been settled. And on the open accounts Ms P had outstanding at the time, they 
were all up to date with payments and I dont think the total debt outstanding was enough to 
suggest to Capital One that a £1,500 limit would be unsustainable. Because of this, I cant 
say they assessed the information unfairly. So, I think their decision to approve the first 
application was a reasonable one and I dont think they need to do anything more in relation 
to this.
For the second application in 2016, Ive seen Capital One accepted our investigators view. 
And in this view, our investigator thought the checks Capital One made were proportionate, 
but that they hadnt assessed the information fairly. So, Im satisfied Capital One dont 
dispute they made an error. But for completeness, Ive looked into this again to make sure I 
agree.
Again, I think the checks Capital One made were proportionate. On this occasion, they 
approved a £200 credit limit and Ms Ps estimated annual income was higher at £27,123. 
So, I think the limit compared to the income was affordable.
But, crucially, I dont think Capital assessed the information available in Ms Ps credit file 
fairly. The credit file showed that Ms P had taken out various forms of credit in the year 
before the application was made. And many of the balances had been utilised to their full 
limit. The credit file also showed that Ms P had been unable to maintain payments on an 
unsecured loan. So, I think this information shouldve been enough to show Capital One that 
Ms P may have been in financial difficulty and that further credit may have been 
unsustainable. Had Capital One recognised this and completed further checks such as an 
income and expenditure form, I think it wouldve become clear that Ms P was unable to 
afford the additional credit and the application wouldve been declined. So, I dont think 
Capital Ones decision to approve this application was reasonable.
Putting things right
As I dont think Capital One acted reasonably, Ive then considered what actions they should 
take to place Ms P back in the position she wouldve been in had Capital Ones error not 
occurred. And in this situation, I dont think Ms P wouldve been given the additional credit. 
So, I dont think she wouldve incurred the additional interest and other charges associated 
to the account. Because of this, I think all the interest and charges for the second account 
should be refunded. And if this refund pays off the outstanding balance and leaves a surplus 
to be returned to Ms P, Capital One should pay Ms P 8% statutory interest on this amount.
Im also aware that the account defaulted and was recorded on Ms Ps credit file. Had Ms P 
not been given the account in the first place, this adverse information wouldnt have been 
added to her credit file. So, Capital One should remove any adverse information currently on 
Ms Ps credit file relating to the second account.
I understand this isnt entirely the outcome Ms P was looking for. And I can appreciate its 
been a difficult time for Ms P as shes attempted to regain control of her finances and handle 
the impact this has had on her credit file. But I hope this decision explains why Capital One 
acted fairly when approving the first application and recognises the impact Capital Ones 
error in approving the second application has had.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Ps complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc 
and direct them to take the following action:Refund all the interest and charges applied to the second credit account, plus 8% 
statutory interest on any surplus owing to Ms P after the account has been paid off in 
full.
Remove any adverse data input onto Ms Ps credit file relating to the second 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman