DRN-3132625
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr C complain about how Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) have treated them while 
theyve been in financial difficulties as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.  
What happened
In 2016 Mrs B and Mr C took out a capital and interest repayment mortgage with BoS for a 
term of 21 years with an initial fixed interest rate product for two years. They arranged a new 
fixed interest rate product when their initial product was due to end in around January 2021.
Unfortunately, Mrs B and Mr Cs income was severely impacted by the coronavirus 
pandemic as their company wasnt able to do any business. The financial support they were 
eligible for from the government was limited. Mrs B and Mr C agreed three payment 
deferrals with BoS between April and December 2020.
When BoS wouldnt let Mrs B and Mr C defer their payments any further, agree to temporary 
interest only payments or convert their mortgage to interest only terms permanently, they 
complained. BoS said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines about mortgage 
payments only allowed for six months of deferrals, and Mrs B and Mr C had already had 
longer than that; BoS didnt offer temporary interest only terms; and Mrs B and Mr C didnt 
meet their criteria for converting their mortgage to interest only terms permanently. 
BoS offered Mrs B and Mr C a payment arrangement, which they later agreed to. Under that 
arrangement theyve made reduced monthly payments towards their CMP and the arrears 
that built up as a result have been reported to credit reference agencies (CRA).
Mrs B and Mr C applied for a product switch in early 2021. BoS refused that because Mrs B 
and Mr C were in arrears.
Mrs B and Mr C werent happy with BoSs responses and the impact on their credit files, so 
they brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator considered whether BoS had 
treated Mrs B and Mr C fairly in line with the relevant mortgage rules relating to customers in 
financial difficulties and under the FCA guidance relating to the pandemic. 
He thought the arrangement BoS and Mrs B and Mr C had reached to make reduced 
monthly payments towards the CMP was fair in the circumstances. And he didnt think Mrs B 
and Mr Cs credit file could be adjusted, as it had to reflect their position accurately. But our 
investigator didnt think BoS had considered Mrs B and Mr Cs situation properly under the 
rules or been sufficiently sensitive to their situation. For the impact that had on Mrs B and  
Mr C, our investigator thought BoS should pay them £150 compensation.
Mrs B and Mr C werent happy with our investigators view, so their complaints been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have provided some detailed information and I may not mention here everything 
theyve said. Ill focus in my decision on the things I think are key to my consideration. I dont 
intend to be discourteous and Id like to reassure the parties Ive thought carefully about 
everything theyve told us in reaching my decision. 
Im sorry to hear of the difficult financial circumstances Mrs B and Mr C have had as a result 
of the pandemic. Unfortunately, the nature of their business and the uncertainties 
surrounding the pandemic meant it was difficult to say when they might be able to resume 
their business activities. I can understand Mrs B and Mr C will have had a very worrying 
time. 
Mr Cs explained he tried to make arrangements to address his and Mrs Bs financial 
situation when he knew their payment deferral was coming to an end. He thinks BoSs 
actions have impacted his credit file and prevented him from raising funds elsewhere. He 
says BoS didnt properly consider their financial situation when they asked about converting 
their property to interest only terms.  And hes unhappy BoS wouldnt agree to a product 
switch. He says if that had happened, their arrears would have accrued at a lower rate.
I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about whats happened. But, for the reasons Ill 
explain, I think overall BoS treated him and Mrs B fairly in all the circumstances. Ill address 
each area of the complaint under separate headings:
The payment deferral
BoS complied with FCA guidelines relating to mortgage payments by allowing Mrs B and   
Mr C six months of payment deferrals. And they agreed to extend the payment deferral 
period by a further three months as a concession when Mrs B and Mr C were still in 
difficulties in making their CMP. I dont think it was unreasonable for BoS to refuse a further 
payment deferral or in Mrs B and Mr Cs best interests for payments to be deferred again. 
There was no guarantee, given the uncertainties of the pandemic and its impact on their 
business, when theyd be able to make their CMP again. As the arrears built up, the amount 
Mrs B and Mr C had to pay back over the remaining term increased and their CMP went up 
as a result. 
BoS are obliged to consider all the options set out in the mortgage rules about helping 
customers who are in financial difficulty and they must take their customers individual 
circumstances into account. So, it was appropriate for BoS to review things with Mrs B and 
Mr C once the third payment deferral had come to an end. I can see the parties engaged 
with each other to discuss the options, as Id expect.
Temporary interest only payments
I can understand Mrs B and Mr C were unhappy BoS wouldnt agree to a temporary interest 
only arrangement. BoS say they dont offer interest only arrangements as a temporary 
measure because, in the past, it hasnt helped their customers. 
Whatever their general policy might be, Id expect BoS to have considered Mrs B and Mr Cs 
individual circumstances before rejecting the possibility of a temporary switch to interest only 
terms and to have explained their reasons to Mrs B and Mr C. BoS argue there was no 
guarantee Mrs B and Mr C would have been able to resume paying capital and interest 
payments at the end of an interest only period. They were also concerned they should be 
reporting Mrs B and Mr Cs financial position correctly to the CRAs and that an interest only 
arrangement would hide the true position.BoS said they would consider Mrs B and Mr Cs proposal to convert their mortgage 
permanently to interest only terms, which they did, and Ill refer to that below.
BoS agreed later, after discussions about a permanent change to interest only, to an 
arrangement under which Mrs B and Mr C paid around £366 a month based on what they 
could then afford having looked at their income and expenditure. BoS have said interest only 
payments would have been around £900 a month. Im not persuaded Mrs B and Mr C would 
have been able to make payments at that level given the amount of the payment 
arrangement.
So, whilst I think BoS ought to have considered a temporary switch to interest only - and 
explained why they didnt agree to it - I think the payment arrangement was a fair 
concession. Mrs B and Mr C could keep their arrears as low as possible, bearing in mind 
their financial position, even though there was no guarantee about when theyd be able to 
resume paying their full CMP. And they could keep this under regular review with BoS to 
check whether the payment was at the right level.
I can understand Mrs B and Mr C are unhappy the arrears under the arrangement have 
been reported on their credit files. Mr C says this is affecting his ability to borrow for other 
purposes. But BoS are obliged to report the arrears to the CRAs. A temporary interest only 
arrangement may also have been reported, so their credit history position may not have 
been any different, even if a temporary switch to interest only had been agreed.
Permanent change to interest only terms
Mrs B and Mr C dont think BoS properly considered their request to change their mortgage 
to interest only on a permanent basis. Having considered BoSs records, I think they did.
Under the relevant mortgage rules, moving from capital and interest repayment terms to 
interest only terms is a change thats material to the affordability of the mortgage. The lender 
has to consider whether the mortgage is affordable for the borrower and whether the 
borrower has a clearly understood and credible repayment strategy. 
BoS didnt think an interest only mortgage was affordable based on Mrs B and Mr Cs 
income at the time. Even so, they considered the details of the repayment strategy they were 
proposing. 
Mr Cs proposal was to repay the mortgage with funds he was planning to raise through the 
redevelopment of land adjacent to his and Mrs Bs property. Unfortunately, Mrs B and Mr C 
werent able to satisfy BoS there was a firm agreement in place with the developer. And BoS 
were concerned, reasonably in my view, that even if the development went ahead, the 
impact of the pandemic on how quickly that might happen and when funds might be 
available for the mortgage were uncertain. Given the overall uncertainty of the project, I dont 
think BoS were unreasonable in rejecting it. They reasonably offered to reconsider the 
proposal if Mr C could provide evidence of an agreement with the developer. 
Product switch
Earlier this year BoS considered an application from Mrs B and Mr Cs broker to switch their 
mortgage to a lower interest rate product but rejected it. Mrs B and Mr C fell into arrears 
before their application completed and they hadnt made any payments for several months.
BoS have confirmed products that were available were for terms of three or five years and all 
had early repayment charges. I acknowledge Mr Cs argument a lower interest rate would 
have reduced the level of arrears he and Mrs B have accrued. But I wouldnt expect BoS to agree to a product where Mrs B and Mr C couldnt meet the full CMP. And, given the 
uncertainty of Mrs B and Mr Cs financial situation, I dont think it would have been in their 
best interests overall for BoS to have given them a fixed interest rate product. If it became 
necessary for their house to be sold and the mortgage repaid within the term of the fixed rate 
product, theyd be liable to pay a significant ERC which could put them in a worse position. 
Impact on Mrs B and Mr C of what happened
I acknowledge Mrs B and Mr C feel very strongly BoS treated them unfairly. I agree BoS 
could have explained better the reasons why they wouldnt agree to a temporary interest 
only arrangement. And that will have added to an already stressful situation. I think £150 is 
fair compensation to resolve Mrs B and Mr Cs complaint in all the circumstances.
Recent developments
Mr Cs recently provided documents in relation to the redevelopment of his property. Its not 
clear to me theres signed deal with the developer yet, but its possible things have moved 
on since he gave us that information. Id encourage Mrs B and Mr C to continue their 
discussions with BoS as to how BoS can support them while they continue to have financial 
difficulties. Mrs B and Mr C may also benefit from taking independent financial advice. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think its fair for BoS to pay Mrs B and Mr C £150 compensation. I think 
that fairly reflects the impact on Mrs B and Mr C of BoS failing to consider the request for a 
temporary interest only concession or to explain fully their decisions around the support they 
would provide. I think that caused Mrs B and Mr C additional distress while theyve been 
going through an already stressful time.
My final decision
I direct Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mrs B and Mrs C £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman