DRN-3796495
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund payments 
she made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2021, Ms L fell victim to a romance scam. She signed up with a dating app and met a 
man Ill refer to as A. Ms L says that over five months she communicated with A and a 
relationship developed, to the point they had talked about marriage. Ms L says she had no 
reason not to trust what A was telling her. 
A told Ms L that he was going to the US on a big project and would be staying for three 
weeks. Unfortunately, while there, A told Ms L that he had caught Covid and would have to 
stay longer than expected. A said that due to difficulties with his finances his account was 
frozen, but he was expecting a payment from a previous employer that was in excess of 
$300,000. A asked Ms L if she could open a US bank account, so she could receive the 
funds from his employer then move the funds to her UK account.
Ms L agreed to open the account, which was to be done by a representative for the company 
A was expecting payment from. As part of the account opening process the representative 
told Ms L she would need to pay a deposit of $2,000. So, on 31 August 2021, Ms L went to a 
Halifax branch and made an international payment to account information given to her by the 
representative. The amount taken from her Halifax account was £1,997.29.
Ms L says that after the payment was made, she was given a username and password and 
could log in and see her new account with a balance of over $300,000. When she tried to 
withdraw the funds to send them to her UK account, she got a message which said a COT 
was required. Ms L was told she needed to pay £10,000 to get a COT. Ms L couldnt afford 
to pay that amount, and after discussion with A and the representative, it was agreed the 
amount could be reduced to £4,000. So, on 13 September 2021, Ms L went to a Halifax 
branch and made an international payment to account information given to her by the 
representative. The amount taken from her Halifax account was just over £3,800.
Ms L talked to a friend about the payments shed made and they suggested shed been the 
victim of a scam and recommended she call Action Fraud. When Ms L called Action Fraud, 
they confirmed that she was the victim of a scam. Ms L raised a fraud claim with Halifax and 
asked them to recover her money.
Halifax contacted the beneficiary bank but were only able to recover £1,982.21. Halifax 
declined to refund Ms L for any of the remaining loss, saying the payments werent out of 
character so they had no reason to intervene when she was making them. They also 
explained that as Ms L made international payments, her claim wasnt covered under the 
CRM Code, and their attempt to recover the funds was on a best endeavours basis.
Ms L wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Ls complaint but didnt recommend that Halifax refund her. 
The investigator explained that having considered the payments Ms L made, she wasnt 
satisfied that Halifax shouldve been concerned or intervened when Ms L made them and 
couldnt fairly hold them liable for refunding Ms L. 
Ms L disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying she didnt know it was a scam and that 
she shouldve been protected by Halifax. She also referred to another fraud claim she made 
relating to the same scam about payments she made from an account with another bank, 
which was upheld. 
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of Ms Ls case, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and wont be recommending that Halifax refund Ms L.
I realise that Ms L is going to be very disappointed, and Im sorry that Im unable to fairly 
recommend Halifax refund her. Ms L has told us about her difficult personal circumstances 
and how vulnerable she was when this fraudster took advantage of her. And, I have no 
doubt that Ms L was the victim of a cruel scam. But that doesnt mean I can hold Halifax 
liable. Ill explain why.
Halifax are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). However, the CRM Code doesnt cover international payments and 
therefore cant be applied to Ms Ls payments. This means I cant hold Halifax responsible 
for reimbursing Ms L because of any obligation under the CRM Code. 
However, there is an obligation on Halifax to be on the lookout for, and to protect its 
customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring 
accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In 
situations where potential fraud is identified, I would expect Halifax to intervene and attempt 
to prevent losses for the customer. 
Should Halifax have prevented Ms L from making the payments? 
Having reviewed Ms Ls previous account use, Im not satisfied that the two payments she 
made were particularly unusual or out of character whereby I wouldve expected Halifax to 
intervene. I say this because both transactions were for under £4,000 and were made nearly 
two weeks apart. Considering the previous account use and the specifics of the payments, 
Im not satisfied that Halifax shouldve been concerned that Ms L mayve been at risk of 
financial harm.
Both of these payments were completed in a Halifax branch and Ms L has raised concerns 
about the payments becoming stuck and the staff member forcing them through. From 
what Ive seen the payments didnt flag with Halifax as being of concern, so werent stopped 
based on a risk being identified. And I havent seen anything that suggests the staff didnt 
follow Halifaxs usual process in making the payments. Halifax says while they wouldve 
asked the purpose of the payments, they wouldnt have probed or asked additional 
questions as they didnt consider the payments out of character or concerning. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Halifax acted reasonably in processing the payments in line 
with Ms Ls instructions.I appreciate that Ms L feels Halifax shouldve protected her. As I explained above, where 
Halifax identify a payment that may indicate a customer is at risk of financial harm due to a 
scam or fraud, I would expect them to intervene. However, in this case Im not satisfied that 
shouldve happened based on the specifics of the payments Ms L made.
As Im not persuaded that Halifax shouldve intervened, I cant fairly say they shouldve 
prevented Ms L from making the payments. Therefore, I cant hold Halifax liable and ask 
them to refund Ms L.
Could Halifax have recovered more of Ms Ls money from the beneficiary bank? 
Ms L feels Halifax shouldve made more effort to recover her money from the beneficiary 
bank. But, from what Ive seen, Halifax promptly contacted the beneficiary bank when Ms L 
raised the fraud claim and took appropriate steps to try and recover Ms Ls money. 
Unfortunately, banks based outside the UK are not subject to our rules and regulations, and 
Halifax is unable to force or require the beneficiary bank to return the funds. In the 
circumstances Im not persuaded there is anything more that Halifax could or can do to try 
and recover Ms Ls funds from the beneficiary bank. Therefore, I cant ask Halifax to refund 
Ms L any more than the £1,982.21, which was returned from the beneficiary bank and paid 
into Ms Ls account.
Ms L raised a point about another bank fully refunding other payments she made in relation 
to this same scam, as she feels Halifax should do the same. However, I can only reach an 
answer on this case based on the circumstances of the payments she made from her Halifax 
account. I cant require Halifax to refund her on the basis that another bank did.
I realise that Ms L is going to be very disappointed, but having considered everything very 
carefully, I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman