DRN-4325519
The complaint
A Limited, represented by director Ms S, complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to 
refund the company for transactions which Ms S said hadnt been authorised.
What happened
On 19 January 2023, Ms S rang HSBC about transactions on A Ltds business bank account 
which she said she didnt make. Eight debit card payments had been made to an online 
remittance business which Ill call B. The first was on 10 January and the last on 20 January, 
and the total was £768.63. There were other, genuine, transactions between those to 
business B.
When Ms S rang HSBC, she said she still had her debit card, and no-one else had access to 
it. She said she hadnt written down or recorded the PIN.
HSBC investigated, including contacting business B. It rang Ms S back on 14 February, and 
confirmed in writing that it didnt agree to a refund. HSBC explained that business B had 
confirmed Ms Ss personal details, and these were the same as Ms Ss genuine details. 
HSBC said it had considered all the information from Ms S and business B, and couldnt 
refund her. It said that if she wanted to continue to dispute the transactions, shed have to 
contact business B herself.
Ms S didnt accept this and wrote back to HSBC on 14 March. She said shed contacted 
business B to ask what details it had for the account to which the money had gone. But it 
had said it would only provide information either to the bank or police. Ms S also said that 
business B had asked her if shed received email confirmation for the payments from her 
bank account, but she hadnt. Ms S asked HSBC for more information about the business B 
account, and other details about the transactions. Ms S said she ran a small business and 
wasnt happy just to let go of this, as £768.63 had been unlawfully taken from her account 
and left her without support in distress and anxiety.
Ms S chased for a response on 11 May. HSBC paid A Ltd £50 compensation for the delay. 
But in its final response letter on 16 May, it said that business B had confirmed personal 
details which matched those of Ms S. It said it had reconsidered but in view of the 
information from Ms S and from business B, it didnt support the claim for a refund. So if A 
Ltd wanted to pursue this further, Ms S would have to raise it direct with business B herself.
Ms S, for A Ltd, wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She set out what had happened 
and said the business wasnt doing too well, and it was difficult to accommodate the loss. 
She said shed had nothing to do with the transactions and she wanted HSBCs information 
about the investigation, so she could know who opened the account with business B in her 
name.
Our investigator didnt uphold A Ltds complaint. She said that the evidence suggested that 
the transactions were either completed by Ms S, or someone acting on her behalf. So the 
investigator believed HSBCs decision was fair.
Ms S, for A Ltd, wasnt satisfied. She said that:
- shed never opened an account with business B. She said shed asked business B 
for details of the account opened in her name, but it had refused. She said she hadnt 
received a confirmation email for opening an account, nor had she received email 
confirmation from business B about the payments it had received. Ms S said that if 
an account had been opened in her name, she had a right to all this information.
- HSBC hadnt sent her any One Time Passcode (OTP) to verity setting up the first 
transaction on 10 January. She said she was shocked that HSBC said it had sent her 
one, because shed asked the HSBC advisor why she hadnt received a OTP and 
had been told that business B didnt have the facility for them. Ms S said she was 
sending screenshots of all the OTPs received from HSBC during the relevant period.
Ms S said that HSBC had to be taken to account for this claim, and needed to provided proof 
of the number to which it sent the OTP and why she didnt receive it. She said if shed 
received it, shed have been able to stop that transaction and the subsequent payments. Ms 
S said HSBC had failed in its responsibility towards her as a customer by not sending any 
OTP. 
Ms S, for A Ltd, asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, this complaint is against HSBC. Ms S, for A Ltd, is also unhappy about business B  
for example its refusal to provide her with information about the account in her name. I can 
only consider matters relating to A Ltds complaint about HSBC, not about the recipient 
organisation business B.
In these circumstances there are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The 
relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the 
bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they 
did authorise them. So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Ms S, for A Ltd, 
authorised the payments or permitted someone else to do so with her authority.
Ms S told HSBC that she still had her card, to which no-one else had access, and said she 
hadnt disclosed any of her details. So its hard to see how a third party fraudster could have 
obtained her details and carried out the payments.
Ive borne in mind that the payments arent typical of fraudulent payments. Theyre generally 
for small amounts, and took place over ten days. Fraudsters typically take out as much 
money as they can, immediately, to maximise their gain before the fraud can be discovered 
and payments blocked. Thats not what happened here. And at the time of the first £20 
payment on 10 January, there was over £4,200 in A Ltds account. Its unlikely a third party 
fraudster would only have taken £20.
There were also genuine transactions between the payments to business B. Its surprising 
that Ms S, who made these genuine payments to other recipients, didnt raise the alarm with 
HSBC sooner than she did. 
Ive seen the evidence of the query which HSBC raised with business B, and business Bs 
response. The information is confidential, but I accept that the account which business B 
held, had information which matched what HSBC held about Ms S.I note Ms Ss comments in relation to the OTP, which she says she didnt receive. I consider 
its more likely than not that HSBC did send a OTP.  But in any case, that isnt the most 
important factor here. I cant see how Ms Ss details could have been compromised and her 
information held by business B.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that it was Ms S, or 
someone known to her who had access to the debit card and security information, who 
carried out the disputed transactions. Either would count as Ms S authorising the transaction 
for A Ltd. So HSBC does not have to refund A Ltd, and I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman