DRN-1755622
The complaint
Miss F complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended. She says the agreement was mis-sold because she wasnt made aware of 
the mileage limit.
What happened
In April 2016 Miss F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with PSA. When she returned the car at the end of the term PSA asked her to pay excess 
mileage charges.
Miss F disputed the charges. She said she hadnt agreed to a 6000 miles per annum limit. 
She also said the signature on the finance agreement wasnt hers.
In its final response PSA said the finance agreement clearly showed the mileage limit. Miss 
F wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He though Miss F had been given adequate 
information about the mileage limit and felt that the signature on the finance agreement 
matched signatures on other agreements entered into by Miss F.
Miss F didnt agree. She said the small print on the agreement made it difficult to read. She 
accepted that the signature on the agreement was hers but said she hadnt been made 
aware of the mileage limit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the dealership made a 
misrepresentation about the mileage limit which was untrue and which persuaded miss f to 
enter into the agreement.
Miss F has said she wasnt made aware of the mileage limit. Shes also said she was given 
the impression that the mileage limit was the same as the service interval. 
Theres no record of the discussions between Miss F and the dealership and because I 
wasnt present I cant be certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances like this I need to 
look at the contemporaneous documents as the best evidence of what was discussed and 
agreed between the parties.
Ive looked at the finance agreement and he adequate explanation form. The mileage limit is 
clearly shown, and Miss F has signed to say that she discussed the annual mileage limits 
with the supplying dealer. 
Ive taken into account Miss Fs concerns that the font size was too small. Shes referred to a 
legal case in which a regulator found that the font used for the terms and conditions was 
smaller than the font on some of the other documents . This isnt the case with Miss Fs 
agreement because all of the documents are in the same size font. Theres no requirement 
for a particular font size and Im satisfied that the size of the font in Miss Fs agreement is 
large enough. It doesnt make the agreement impossible to read or render it otherwise unfair.
I agree with PSA that theres a reasonable expectation that a consumer will have read an 
agreement before committing to it. Im satisfied that the mileage limit was clearly shown in 
Miss Fs agreement. If Miss F had any concerns about the mileage limit she could have 
raised these at the time, but I cant see that she did.
On balance, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest that the mileage limit was 
misrepresented. Im satisfied that the mileage limit was clearly shown on the agreement and 
that the excess mileage charges have been applied fairly by PSA in accordance with the 
terms and conditions. Because of this, I wont be asking PSA to waive the charges. I think 
the offer by PSA to reduce the charges by 1 pence per mile is reasonable.
Finally I can see that Miss F has concerns about the effect on her credit file. This wasnt part 
of her original complaint and PSA hasnt investigated it. Miss F will need to raise this as a 
separate complaint with PSA first before this service could look at it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman