DRN-3392686
The complaint
Mr L complained that his claim was unfairly declined by Gresham Insurance Company 
Limited (Gresham) under his home contents policy.
What happened
Mr L made a claim on his contents policy following water damage in his home. Gresham 
settled most of Mr Ls claim but declined his claim for the damage to his recording studio 
equipment. 
Aviva said Mr L was a radio producer, radio presenter and DJ. Aviva declined the claim as it 
said the equipment was being used for business or professional use, so wasnt covered by 
the policy.
However, Mr L clarified that he used his equipment for pleasure and not business use. He 
said he was unemployed and shared evidence that he was in receipt of Job Seekers 
Allowance, so he thought his claim should be covered by the policy.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She was persuaded that Mr L didnt use 
the equipment for paid work, so he didnt think it was fair to conclude the equipment was 
used for business or professional use. She thought Gresham should settle the claim. She 
also awarded £100 compensation for Mr Ls distress and inconvenience. Gresham 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the policy and it covers personal effects which belong to the insured, so 
provided the equipment wasnt used predominately for business and professional use, Im 
likely to say the claim should be settled. 
Its Avivas responsibility to prove the equipment was used predominately for business use, 
so Ive considered its arguments or this. Aviva said the equipment was used for business 
and professional use. Aviva said in the initial claim call Mr L advised my colleague that [he 
is] a radio host and DJ. I also note you have said you do not make money from this, however 
these items are used for a professional basis online etc and therefore I am maintaining the 
decision to decline your claim.
I have listened to the call and Mr L does indicate he is a radio presenter and DJ. Mr L has 
since clarified to our service that his equipment is used for his hobby / personal use and not 
for the purpose of business. At no point on the call, did Mr L specifically say radio presenting 
/ being a DJ was his work or that he made money from this. Therefore, I dont think the call 
recording that Aviva has provided supports their claim decision that Mr L used the equipment 
for business and professional use. I think their evidence needs to be more significant.
The policy doesnt define business and professional use so its not clear to customers 
exactly what Gresham mean by this. I dont think its fair to say using equipment for a hobby 
is the same as someone using it for professional or business use.  Mr L thinks that 
professional and business use would refer to someone getting paid for their work. I think this 
is a reasonable interpretation of these words. 
Gresham said, Mr L clearly told us he was a DJ/Radio Host  these are normally paid jobs, 
there are not many DJ/Radio Host who will carry out this type of work free of charge. I dont 
find this statement compelling or supportive of Greshams position on this claim. I find this 
statement contradictory, as it indicates Gresham also feel paid work is an indicator of 
professional or business use. Gresham has also suggested in the statement that there could 
be some (a minority) of DJ/radio hosts who carry out this activity without getting paid. I 
havent seen any evidence provided by Gresham to show Mr L was getting payments for any 
work using this equipment, so I dont think its reasonable to say the equipment was for 
business or professional use.
Mr L has provided evidence that he was in receipt of Job Seekers Allowance at the time of 
the claim, which is usually provided to someone who is seeking out paid employment. 
Careful checks are normally carried out before these benefits are paid. So, I think Mr L has 
provided some formal evidence to support his statement that he didnt use his equipment for 
business or professional use. If he did, its unlikely he wouldve been able to claim an 
unemployment benefit.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Mr L has never said he has used his equipment for 
business or professional use, and he provided evidence hes in receipt of job seekers 
allowance. Gresham hasnt provided any significant evidence that Mr L used his equipment 
for business or professional use. Therefore, as personal effects are covered by the policy, I 
require Gresham to settle this claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. As Mr L has been inconvenienced by the delay to his claim, I award £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Mr L £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman