DRN-3675240
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave her wrong information 
when she asked to change her interest-only mortgage onto a capital and interest repayment 
basis. As a result, she says she sold some shares at a bad time, and the mortgage interest 
rate she ended up getting was higher than she expected.
What happened
Mrs A took out her mortgage with Halifax in 2008, and was paying it on an interest-only 
basis. In May 2021, she asked Halifax about switching the mortgage onto a capital and 
interest repayment basis. She says she also wanted a new interest rate that she would be 
able to port, because she planned to sell her property in the near future.
Mrs A says Halifax told her the maximum mortgage she could have on a repayment basis 
was £171,950. Her mortgage balance at the time was around £185,000  so she would need 
to reduce it by about £15,000 in order to go ahead with the new arrangement.
Mrs A went on to sell some shares in order to raise the £15,000 she needed. She says she 
told Halifax she was doing this, and that it wasnt a good time to sell since the value of her 
shares had recently fallen. But she says she was told she would need to reduce her 
mortgage balance before making a full application for the new mortgage arrangement.
Then, on going through the mortgage application, Halifax said it would only let Mrs A switch 
significantly less of the mortgage balance onto repayment terms. The figures then changed 
again. Mrs A ultimately moved around £118,000 onto a repayment basis and the remaining 
mortgage balance remained interest-only, on a five-year fixed interest rate.
Mrs A complained. She said Halifax hadnt told her until after she had sold her shares that 
she could have part of the mortgage on a repayment basis and part on interest-only, she 
should have got a better interest rate, and she had lost out as a result of the poor advice she 
had received. 
Halifax accepted that it hadnt told Ms A that there was no guarantee she could switch the 
whole mortgage onto a repayment basis if she paid £15,000 off the balance, or that interest 
rates could change. It apologised, and paid Mrs A £400 by way of compensation. But it said 
it hadnt known how Mrs A planned to raise the £15,000, and it wasnt responsible for her 
decision to sell her shares when she did. 
Our Investigator thought Halifax had done enough to put things right, but Mrs A disagreed. 
She said the Investigator had made mistakes of fact, and Halifax knew she was planning to 
sell her shares in order to reduce the mortgage balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also noted everything Mrs A has said in her letter of 25 August 2022 and the enclosures. 
I agree that the Investigator got some facts wrong but, while I realise Mrs A will be very 
disappointed, Ive come to the same overall conclusion the Investigator reached.
The amount Halifax was prepared to lend Mrs A on a repayment basis changed several 
times, and I recognise that this caused Mrs A some concern and frustration. She had 
understood that, if she paid £15,000 off the mortgage, the remaining balance could be 
switched to a repayment basis.
While Halifax initially led Mrs A to understand it would move just over £170,000 onto a 
repayment basis, I dont think it guaranteed it would do so. Its records satisfy me that it 
assessed Mrs As circumstances and it didnt agree to go ahead on that basis for 
affordability reasons. 
I think Halifax was entirely reasonable in wanting to satisfy itself that Mrs A would be able to 
afford the monthly payments before agreeing to any changes; indeed, the rules of mortgage 
lending required it to do so. In making its decision, Halifax had to take into account a number 
of factors, including Mrs As benefit payments and service charges payable on her property. I 
find nothing to indicate that it treated Mrs As application unfairly or that it didnt apply its 
usual criteria in making its assessment.
The interest rate available to Mrs A increased, and she ended up with a rate of 1.57% rather 
than the 1.45% she had expected. But I dont think that was guaranteed either. Rates can 
change at any time, including during the application process, and I dont find Halifax caused 
significant delay such that Mrs A lost out on the lower rate. Mrs A made initial enquires in 
May 2021, and a mortgage offer was issued in June 2021.
Theres a dispute about whether or not Halifax knew Mrs A was planning to sell some shares 
in order to raise the £15,000. Weve asked Halifax for Mrs As call with it in which she says 
this was discussed, but it has been unable to provide a recording. Either way, though, I dont 
consider that what Halifax did or didnt know about her plans affects the outcome of this 
complaint.  
The value of shares rises and falls all the time; it is never straightforward to decide when is 
the best time to sell  and that was always a decision for Mrs A to make for herself. She 
hasnt said, for example, that Halifax advised her to sell them. And, had Mrs A not reduced 
her mortgage balance in the way that she did, its likely that Halifax would have been 
prepared to switch even less of the mortgage balance onto a repayment basis  as a higher 
mortgage balance would have resulted in higher, and less affordable, monthly payments. 
So, in all the circumstances, I dont find any basis on which I can fairly require Halifax to 
compensate Mrs A for financial loss. I do think Halifax should have been clearer with Mrs A 
about its process and that she might not get what she hoped for once her application had 
been fully assessed  but I consider its offer of £400 compensation to reflect the confusion 
and disappointment this caused is a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that the offer Halifax has made to pay 
Mrs A £400 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay £400 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 Janet Millington
Ombudsman