DRN-3015930
The complaint
 Mr L complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his account and wont return 
money held in the account to him. He wants the money released to him and compensation.
What happened
 Mr L has a Pockit account. In April 2020, Wirecard blocked Mr Ls account while they 
carried out a review. This meant Mr L couldnt access the money in his account. At the time 
the balance of Mr Ls account was just over £170.
Mr L contacted Wirecard on several occasions to try and find out what was happening with 
his account. Wirecard explained to Mr L that under the terms and conditions of the account it 
was entitled to review a customers account and ask him for information about how he was 
using the account.
On 15 April 2020, Wirecard told Mr L that he needed to provide proof of his address, 
identification and source of funds. Mr L provided the information to Wirecard on the following 
day. Unfortunately, Mr L had provided documents in his previous surname. But he corrected 
this the following day and provided Wirecard with up to date documents. He also explained 
that the money hed paid into his account was wages hed earnt from his pet training 
business.
 
In May 2020, Wirecard asked Mr L to provide proof that he was entitled to the money in his 
account. Mr L decided to close the account and asked for his funds to be released. He didnt 
provide any paperwork to support what hed said about the money. Mr L contacted Wirecard, 
he explained that he was struggling financially, and needed the money in his account as he 
had fallen into rent arrears. Several months later, in December 2020, Wirecard asked Mr L 
again to provide evidence that he was entitled to money his account. Wirecard didnt remove 
the block on Mr Ls account or release his funds. So, Mr L complained. 
In response, Wirecard said under the terms of Mr Ls account it was entitled to restrict an 
account in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. Wirecard said it appreciated the 
review had caused Mr L inconvenience. But wouldnt remove the block.
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He explained that 
hed sent two payments to his Pockit account that hed earnt from his business. And he 
needed access to the funds in his account to pay bills. Mr L says because of the block he fell 
behind in his rent and found it difficult to manage everyday expenses. To date Mr L still 
hasnt had access to the money in his account. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. He asked Wirecard for some more 
information about its review  in particular why it had taken so long to complete its review. 
And what it had been doing to progress things. But Wirecard didnt respond. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He was satisfied Wirecard could review Mr Ls 
account and ask for information  but he didnt think theyd carried out a thorough 
investigation to show that that Mr L wasnt entitled to the money in his account. And said it 
hadnt completed its review in a timely manner. So, he asked them to return the full balance 
to Mr L plus 8% simple interest. And pay Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused.
 
Mr L agreed. Wirecard didnt respond. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Wirecard has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review. And ask for information about payments made into an account. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Wirecard was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Ls account in April 2020. Its also entitled to 
review an account under the terms and conditions. So, I cant fairly say Wirecards done 
anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ls account.
However, while Wirecard are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Wirecard initially blocked Mr Ls account in April 
2020. But I havent seen any evidence to show the actions Wirecard took during the review 
after Mr L provided the information it had requested. I note too that Wirecard didnt ask Mr L 
for any information until May 2020, which was nearly a month after it had restricted 
Mr Ls account. And it appears nothing further was done to move things forward by Wirecard 
until December 2020  some seven months later. From looking at the timeline provided by 
Wirecard, the next action didnt happen until March 2021. Wirecard hasnt offered any 
explanation for why its review of Mr Ls account has to date, taken eighteen months. So, Im 
not satisfied Wirecard completed its review in a timely manner. 
Wirecard says it asked Mr L about the source of the funds in his account and how he used 
his account. But Wirecard havent said what exactly they asked Mr L. I can see that our 
investigator asked Mr L to provide more information about the source of funds which hed 
paid into his Wirecard account. In response, he told us that hed recently set up a dog 
training business, which he advertised on social media. I note that this is supported by one 
of the payments made into Mr Ls account being referenced dog training. So, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, that shows Mr L wasnt entitled to the money paid 
into his account, I dont find Mr Ls explanation implausible. 
Wirecard has told this service that the block to Mr Ls account was applied to meet its 
regulatory requirements in line with the terms and conditions of the account. However, 
Wirecard has failed to provide any information or evidence to support this. Its also not 
provided any information as to why it is still withholding Mr Ls funds, which based on the 
information Mr L has provided originated from his wages. So, in this particular case, because 
of the lack of information, I cant be satisfied that Wirecard has treated Mr L fairly. It therefore 
follows that I think Wirecard should refund Mr L the full balance which was left in his account 
when they restricted the account in April 2020. I also dont think its reasonable that Mr L has 
been without his money for a long period of time. So, like our investigator, I think 8% simple 
interest should be paid on this amount.
 Having looked at what Mr L has told us about how the blocks affected him, I do think that 
Mr L was caused some distress and inconvenience. Mr L has told us that he fell into financial 
difficulties and couldnt afford to pay his rent. So, I think its fair to say he was relying on this 
money. And I can see that he chased Wirecard on several occasions for an update.  Ive no 
doubt all of this had an impact on Mr L, causing him concern and worry about paying bills. 
And I can see that Mr L has been without his funds for well over a year. So, I consider £100 
compensation to be fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. To put things right Wirecard Card 
Solutions Limited should:
Refund Mr L the amount of money in his account 
Pay Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its poor customer 
service, delay in completing its review and withholding his funds
Pay Mr L 8% interest simple per year on the amount they refund Mr L. They should 
calculate this from the date they restricted Mr Ls account to the date they refund him
HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to withhold 
income tax from the above-mentioned interest. Wirecard should give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if he asks for one.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman