DRN-2792060
The complaint
This is a complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) selling Miss A a packaged 
bank account (PBA). 
What happened
In 2010, Miss As bank account was changed from one that didnt have a monthly fee into a 
Ultimate Reward Classic Account (URCA). This was a PBA attracting a monthly fee of 
£12.50. 
Bank of Scotland has accepted that it shouldnt have sold Miss A the PBA.  However, it has 
said its calculations mean that it doesnt need to refund any of the fees Miss A paid for the 
URCA. It says this is because Miss A saved more by having a lower interest rate than she 
actually paid in fees for the URCA. It is saying that, without the URCA, shed have actually 
paid more overall in daily fees for her overdraft. 
Miss A, through her representative, says that this misses the main point of the complaint, 
which I understand to be that changing the account to an URCA was not the right way of 
dealing with the overdraft. She says she was paying significant fees and interest on the 
overdraft and, as a vulnerable person, the bank should have found a different way to stop 
the situation worsening; and should have come up with a plan to reduce the amount Miss A 
owed them. 
Our adjudicator said that wed have to deal separately with that issue of how the overdraft 
was handled, and she asked the bank to investigate it. 
The adjudicator said that, at this stage, we was looking only at the narrow issue of whether 
Bank of Scotland should refund any of the fees Miss A paid for the URCA because of the 
mis-sale. The adjudicator said she didnt think there should be a refund arising out of the 
mis-sale.
Miss As representative asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering the sale of packaged bank accounts on our 
website, which everyone can read. Ive kept that approach in mind when considering 
Miss As case.
I completely understand that Miss A is very unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland handled 
her overdraft. But here Im looking only at how the bank assessed the question of possible 
mis-sale of the URCA. We will be considering the issue of the overdraft under a separate 
complaint reference. 
On the narrow issue of selling Miss A a PBA that was unsuitable for her needs, I agree it 
was a mis-sale. I agree that, within the confines of the issue of the costs versus benefits of 
the URCA, Bank of Scotland does not need to refund the PBA fees Miss A paid.
My final decision
I am not upholding the complaint as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman