DRN-1946701
 
The complaint
Mrs G complains about three instalment loans that she took out with Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, (LS). 
What happened
This complaint is about three short term loans LS provided to Mrs G between 
August 2017 and March 2019. All the loans have been repaid. The loans were repayable by 
six monthly instalments. Mrs Gs lending history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 26/8/17 13/2/18 £520
2. 16/4/18 25/9/18 £350
3. 9/3/19 27/8/19 £500
LS said that it had carried out proper and proportionate affordability checks at the time that 
each loan was approved. It had asked Mrs G for her monthly income and expenses. It had 
used national average amounts for expenses and revised Mrs Gs stated expenses upwards 
and this still resulted in a viable disposable income. LS had also made checks with the credit 
reference agency (CRA) before Loans 1 and 2. It said that the CRA had confirmed a rating 
which was satisfactory for the loan obligation
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld
Mrs G disagreed. She said that she had loans with three other lenders when she took out 
Loan 1. So she doesnt think thorough checks were made. Mrs G also said that she was 
taking out one loan to pay another.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mrs G took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
LS needed to check that Mrs G could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Mrs G being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks LS needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mrs G would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint.
LS did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs G. It asked her for details of her monthly 
income and expenses. Mrs Gs declared income was between £1,130 and £1,296 for all the 
loans. Mrs G declared her expenses as between £428 and £475 for all the loans but LS 
increased the expenses amounts to between £662 and £737. 
LS said that it also checked Mrs Gs credit file before agreeing Loans 1 and 2. Ive seen brief 
results from LSs credit checks. They said that Mrs G had nine other active accounts. But 
she had no defaulted accounts and no delinquent accounts. I cant say that this information 
should have caused LS additional concerns.
Ive not seen Mrs Gs credit report so I cant say whether this contained any adverse 
information that I think should have caused additional concerns to LS. 
I note that Mrs G said that she had three other payday loans when she took out Loan 1. But 
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will, and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, Mrs Gs other short term 
loans may not have been identified by LSs credit check. So, this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by LSs credit check and Mrs Gs actual 
situation.
Loan 1 was for £520. LS had asked Mrs G for her monthly income and expenses and I can 
also see that LS had increased the amount of Mrs Gs declared expenses. So it was aware 
that it couldnt rely on the amount shed declared. I think that the checks LS did before 
agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. I can see that the repayments that Mrs G needed to 
make were relatively modest compared to her adjusted disposable income. I dont think the 
repayment amounts for Loan 1 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mrs G 
financial difficulty.
So, given Mrs Gs repayment amounts for Loan 1 and that this was her first loan with LS, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to ask her for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And at this stage, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mrs G was saying.  So, I dont think LS 
was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mrs G.Mrs G repaid Loan 1 on the due date and took out Loan 2 around two months later. I note 
that the loan amount of £350 and the highest loan repayment of £148.34 were smaller than 
her previous loan. But I can also see that LS had again increased the amount of Mrs Gs 
declared expenditure so it was aware that it couldnt rely on the amount shed declared. 
Overall, I can see that the repayments that Mrs G needed to make were relatively moderate 
compared to her adjusted disposable income and I dont think the repayment amounts for 
Loan 2 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mrs G financial difficulty.
So, given Mrs Gs repayment amounts for Loan 2 and her borrowing history with LS, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to ask her for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And again at this stage, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mrs G was saying.  So, I dont 
think LS was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mrs G.
Mrs G took out Loan 3 around five and a half months after repaying Loan 2. At this relatively 
early stage in her borrowing history with LS, I think its fair that the lender again treated    
Mrs G as a new customer.
The highest monthly repayment on Loan 3 was £163.57. Mrs G had declared an income of 
£1,150 and expenses of £475. I can again see that LS had increased the amount of Mrs Gs 
declared expenses so it was aware that it couldnt rely on the amount shed declared. I think 
that the checks LS did before agreeing Loan 3 were proportionate. And I can see that the 
repayments that Mrs G needed to make were relatively moderate compared to her adjusted 
disposable income. I dont think the repayment amounts for Loan 3 were so large that its 
obvious they wouldve caused Mrs G financial difficulty.
So given Mrs Gs repayment amounts and what was apparent about her circumstances at 
the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to ask her for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show Loan 3 was unsustainable. So, I dont think LS 
was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mrs G.
So for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman