DRN-2960095
The complaint
Mr B is complaining about Santander UK Plc reporting a missed payment on his credit card 
to the credit reference agencies. He says he didnt miss his payment because he paid it 
early.
What happened
Mr B has had a credit card account with Santander since September 2020.
Santander sent Mr B a credit card statement on 23 November 2020. On 25 November 2020 
Mr B made a payment of £50. And on 22 December 2020 he made a payment of £100.
Also on 22 December, Mr Bs next monthly statement was produced. It showed Mr B had 
made the two payments of £50 and £100 in the last statement period. And it said that Mr B 
should make a minimum payment by 17 January 2021.
Mr B didnt make another payment by 17 January 2021. His next statement was produced 
on 22 January 2021 and showed that he hadnt made a payment after the statement of 22 
December 2020. Santander recorded this as a missed payment and reported it to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr B complained to Santander. He said he usually made his payment around the same time 
each month, when he was paid. But he made his payment in December a few days early. He 
didnt think it was fair for Santander to record it as a missed payment, because hed paid 
early.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, so he brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong by reporting the missed 
payment.
Mr B didnt agree, so his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, Im not going to uphold his complaint, because I dont 
think Santander have made an error or treated Mr B unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he intended the £100 payment he made on 22 December 2020 to be his payment 
for Decembers statement, which was due by 17 January 2021. But Mr Bs statement for 
December was produced after hed made this payment, and it was clear from the statement 
that the £100 payment hed made on 22 December had been taken into account as a 
transaction hed made within the statement period for the previous month. So, this meant 
that Mr B still needed to make the minimum payment shown on his December statement by 
17 January to avoid missing a payment.
I understand that this is frustrating for Mr B, as Ive no doubt he intended to make his 
payment for Decembers statement a little earlier than usual. But the effect of making his 
payment early meant the payment was credited to his account before the payment became 
due. Because he didnt make a payment after his statement for December was issued, he 
missed his payment for that month.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs credit card account with Santander explain (in summary) 
that they may file details about how he manages his account with credit reference agencies. 
And although I accept it was a genuine error on Mr Bs part, I dont think it was factually 
incorrect for Santander to report that Mr B didnt make his payment for Decembers 
statement by the due date of 17 January. So I dont think Santander have made an error or 
acted outside the terms of Mr Bs credit card by choosing to report this to the credit reference 
agencies. 
I can see that Santanders adviser sympathised with Mr B and tried to reassure him that this 
wouldnt have a significant impact on his credit score. I can understand why Mr B would be 
unhappy about this, as its not really for Santander to speculate on how other companies will 
view this information. But as this was after the payment had been missed, I dont think its 
affected Mr Bs position. 
Overall, I dont think Santander have treated Mr B unfairly. So Im not going to ask them to 
do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman