DRN-2734810
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined a claim under
her buildings insurance policy.
Miss B has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease of reading I will simply
refer to Miss B in this decision.
What happened
Miss B is the owner of a property on a development. The property shares a septic tank with
six other homes on the development.
In early 2018 the tank was emptied, which usually happens around once a year, but within a
short space of time it required emptying again. The seven property owners instructed a
drainage specialist company to inspect the tank and report their findings. I will refer to this
company as P. P reported that there was a fracture to the wall at the top of the septic tank,
along with further fractures and breaks in the baffle. It confirmed there was pipework leading
to a soakaway system  which was a drainage or leach field - but it had been unable to
complete a camera survey of the system. P stated that the likely cause was accidental
damage and recommended the only viable remedy was for the properties to be connected to
the mains sewerage system.
Miss B made a claim to Lloyds. Lloyds appointed its own drainage specialist to inspect the
tank  I will refer to this company as N. N also noted the damage to the tank but stated that
the reason for the tank failing was due to the failure of the drainage field. Lloyds
subsequently declined Miss Bs claim as it said the cause of the damage was the failure of
the soakaway system and this wasnt covered by the policy. Lloyds said that whilst there was
evidence of some damage to the tank itself, this was likely to have been caused during the
emptying of the tank and the policy excluded damage caused by cleaning or maintenance.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator
looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She considered the soakaway system
to be a drain and therefore would be covered if there was accidental damage. She noted that
Ps report didnt comment on the soakaway, so she relied on Ns report which explained that
the soakaway has slowly blocked up and was no longer allowing water to drain away. She
found that it was most likely that the soakaway had reached the end of its life and had
deteriorated over time. She said the policy excluded damage caused by wear and tear or
that occurs gradually and so she didnt think this damage was covered by the policy. In
relation to the damage to the tank, she said neither report had provided an explanation for
the cause of the damage, so there was nothing to show that this was caused by an outside
force as required by the policy. She noted that Ns report mentioned this could have been
caused when the hose was placed in the tank in order to complete the emptying but said the
policy excluded damage caused by cleaning or maintaining. She therefore found that it was
fair for Lloyds to decline the claim.
Miss B disagreed with our investigator. She said that there wasnt any visible evidence that
the soakaway had reached the end of its life or that the damage to the septic tank was
caused when it was emptied so she didnt think this was fair. And she also stated that
consideration had not been given to the damage being caused by vibrations from major road
construction that took place three years prior to the claim being made. She pointed out that
claims had been accepted by the insurers on the other properties affected by this issue and
felt it was unreasonable that Lloyds wasnt also agreeing to pay.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 9 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss B. Rather it reflects the informal nature of
our service, its remit and my role in it.
The policy taken out by Miss B includes cover for accidental damage to services. The policy
defines services as:
Services
Underground cables, pipes, drains, tanks and their inspection covers serving your
home and for which you are legally responsible.
Im satisfied that the septic tank would fall under the definition of services. In order for a
claim to be successful, the septic tank needs to have suffered accidental damage which is
defined under the policy as:
Accidental damage
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside
force and is not expected and not deliberate.
When a claim is made under an insurance policy, it is for the policy holder to show they have
a valid claim under the policy terms. Once they have shown they have a valid claim, the
insurer then needs to meet the claim, unless it can show that one of the policy exclusions
would apply.
Lloyds has refused to meet the claim as it says there isnt evidence to show that that there is
accidental damage to services, as required by the policy terms. Lloyds has relied upon the
report from N which says there has been a failure of the drainage field which is no longer
allowing the water to drain, and it is this which is causing the waste in the pipes to back up
into the tank. As drainage fields or soakaways arent included in the definition of services as
detailed in the policy, any failing of this aspect of the system wouldnt be covered by the
policy.
Ive also looked at the report issued by P and I note that this also mentions a similar problem
regarding the soakaway. P says, during the emptying of the septic tank, a large return of
effluent from the soakaway back into the tank was observed. Therefore, it would appear that
both experts have reported that the waste isnt being carried out to the soakaway and
therefore a problem is occurring upon the waste leaving the tank. Based on this information,
I think it is fair for Lloyds to decline the claim for the failure of the soakaway/drainage field as
not being damage to services as defined in the policy.Whilst the policy doesnt cover the damage to the soakaway under accidental damage to
services, I do need to now consider whether the damage to the septic tank should be
covered by the policy. Both experts have reported damage to the tank and so this isnt in
dispute. Ps report says the damage manifested itself suddenly by way of surcharging the
system  although it hasnt explained what caused the surcharge. P does say the damage
was caused either by hydrostatic pressure or an impact from within the tank. But it hasnt
provided any evidence of how this happened or why. The report from N suggests the grazing
damage could have been caused by the suction hose being placed in the tank during the
process of being emptied. Ive thought about this point carefully and I dont think it is
unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on an expert opinion when considering a claim. And the only
expert opinion which suggests a cause for the damage is found in Ns report.
As mentioned previously, it is the responsibility of the policy holder to show that there is a
valid claim. But the reports Miss B has provided dont explain how this damage occurred.
Lloyds has said that the only explanation provided is that this has happened during the
emptying of the tank. It would appear from the information Miss B has supplied that the only
time the tank is opened is during the routine emptying and therefore it does seem plausible
that this is when any such damage could have occurred. If this is how the damage occurred,
then it would appear to meet the definition of accidental damage as detailed in the policy. It
then falls to the insurer to either consider the claim or show that an exclusion applies.
Lloyds says that if the damage was caused when the septic tank was emptied it would be
considered as occurring during a process of cleaning or maintaining of the tank which is
excluded from cover. Having checked the policy terms I can see that there is a list of general
exclusions which apply to all sections of the policy. Within this list there is the following
exclusion:
Any loss or damage caused by:
 Any process of cleaning, dyeing, washing, reproofing, re-styling, restoring,
renovating, altering, maintaining or repairing;
I dont think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to consider the emptying of the septic tank as
cleaning or maintenance  without this regular action the tank would no longer be
serviceable. And, without any evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded that the damage to
the tank is likely to have been caused during the emptying process, and this would be
excluded under this term.
Miss B has also referred to heavy construction that took place in the area a few years before
this event occurred. She has said that the vibrations caused damage to buildings in the
development and therefore this could have caused the fractures to the tank. Ive seen the
studies Miss B has provided into vibration damage and how this can impact structures. Ive
considered this point carefully. Whilst this information does show it is possible for damage to
be caused from heavy construction, there doesnt appear to be any evidence that this is
what caused the damage to the tank in this case. The report from P doesnt mention
vibration damage at all but Ns report does consider this point. This says that it doesnt think
the damage is consistent with what it would expect to see in such cases.
Lloyds has commented that the construction took place some time ago and therefore even if
it was found to be the cause, it is likely that this has gradually worsened over the years,
leading to the event that occurred in 2018. And it has referred to a general exclusion in the
policy terms which states that there is no cover for loss or damage caused by a gradually
operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of time. I dont
think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to reach this conclusion.
Im aware that Miss B has provided a report from another company appointed to inspect thetank and this has been passed to Lloyds for review. Lloyds has said this doesnt alter the
decision reached as it confirms that the soakaway is the main cause of the problem. Having
looked at report I can see that it refers to the main issue as being the drainage field which
appears to have been failing and backing the system up for some time. It also says that
the failure of the drainage field could be due to a number of issues, including poor ground
conditions, blockages due to age or poor emptying/maintenance of the tank. Taking into
account what this report says, Im persuaded that the likely cause of the problem is the
soakaway/drainage field.
Based on all the information that I have seen and been told, I dont think that Lloyds has
unfairly concluded that the damage reported by Miss B isnt covered under the policy. So, I
dont require it to do anything further.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss B as some of the other insurers for the
remaining properties have agreed to accept liability for their share of the works needed to
resolve the matter. But I can only consider the individual complaint made by Miss B, and
whether I think Lloyds has acted fairly when reaching its decision to decline her claim. And
as mentioned, I think it is reasonable for Lloyds to have reached that outcome, based on the
information provided.
Both parties responded to confirm they had received the provisional decision. Lloyds made 
no further comments. Miss B said she felt let down by the outcome, especially as the other 
insurers had agreed to pay out for the works, but she accepted that the complaint had been 
considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both Lloyds and Miss B for responding. Ive noted Miss Bs comments and I do 
understand why this outcome is disappointing for her. As explained previously, complaints 
are considered on their own individual merits, based on the specific circumstances of that 
case. And it is on that basis that I found it reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.
As no additional information has been provided for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the outcome reached previously.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman