DRN-2573310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr T life and critical illness policies. They 
are represented in this complaint by Mr Ts father, but to keep things simple my decision will 
refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mr T.
What happened
Mr T says that over the years he took out many life and critical illness policies on Lloyds 
advice, with policies often being replaced by new policies. On Lloyds advice, in August 2012 
Mr and Mrs T took out joint life and critical illness policies ending 555, 556 and 559. These 
replaced some of the policies Lloyds had previously sold Mr T, but four of the replaced 
policies carried on, albeit with premiums reduced to the minimum, until they were cancelled 
in June 2013.
In 2019 Mr T was sadly diagnosed with cancer, so he made a critical illness claim under his 
policies. But his insurer, a separate business to Lloyds, only paid a proportion of the sum 
assured under policies 555, 556 and 559 because it thought Mr T made a careless 
misrepresentation by saying he was a non-smoker in his 2012 application.
Mr T thought Lloyds had been responsible for this misrepresentation when it completed the 
2012 application on his behalf, and that it had completed other information incorrectly 
regarding his height, job and previous cover. So Mr T complained to Lloyds. He said that in 
2018 he told his insurer hed stopped smoking and thought it would change all his policies to 
reflect this. And that Lloyds had unnecessarily sold him replacement policies over the years. 
In response, Lloyds ultimately said Mr T would have been sent a copy of his 2012 
application to check cover was being offered on the correct terms. And because the 2012 
application incorrectly said Mr T was a non-smoker, the insurer settled his claim in proportion 
to the premiums Mr T actually paid for that policy. Lloyds said the other incorrect information 
in the 2012 application made no difference to the cover offered. 
Regarding replacement policies, Lloyds said it would have carried out full financial reviews 
and only made recommendations if a need existed. Lloyds said it was up to Mr T to decide 
whether to proceed with its recommendations and there were times he didnt. And that Mr T 
took further mortgage borrowing in 2012, so his existing policies no longer fully protected 
him and the 2012 policies were therefore suitable. Lloyds said it sent Mr T information about 
his policies in 2018, including his completed applications. 
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He told us hed declared 
he was a smoker for all his other policies so wouldnt have said he was a non-smoker in 
2012. And Lloyds couldnt have shown him his application because hed have noticed the 
obviously incorrect information. Mr T said Lloyds advised him to replace policies over the 
1990s and 2000s, but he was currently concerned about the policies it sold him in 2007, 
2009 and 2012. In particular, that the 2009 policies were unnecessarily replaced by the 2012 
policies because, in his view, Lloyds saw a way to sell new policies for lower premiums 
based on non-smoker rates. He said Lloyds hadnt given him the most suitable advice and 
should have instead recommended that he utilise existing policies, particularly one taken in 
2007 and one taken in 2009.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He thought the evidence suggested Mr T 
said he was a non-smoker in the 2012 application, and Lloyds hadnt mis-sold the policies. 
Mr T disagreed hed told Lloyds he was a non-smoker. He said that if so, Lloyds should have 
seen he was a smoker from his previous applications, queried this, and suggested changing 
his existing policies to non-smoker rates. Mr T pointed out hed needed to be reminded by 
Lloyds that he could make a critical illness claim under his 2012 policies, so it was unlikely 
hed deliberately given incorrect information in his 2012 application. 
Mr T instead thought Lloyds had falsified the 2012 application without his knowledge, so the 
lower premiums would induce him to buy new policies. Mr T pointed out Lloyds couldnt 
provide its personal summary and recommendation report (PSRR) for the 2012 sale, and 
that Lloyds also incorrectly recorded medical disclosures on his wifes 2012 application. He 
thought Lloyds had advised him to replace too many policies over the years for it to be 
reasonable. And questioned why some of the policies replaced in 2012 were retained on 
minimum premiums until being cancelled in June 2013  he said the reason given for 
minimising the premiums was cost of cover does not meet mortgage requirements and 
thought this showed that in 2012 Lloyds recommended that the 2009 policies should be 
amended and Mr T should start also new policies. Which wasnt a suitable recommendation. 
As Mr T disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Ts illness. I realise this must be a very 
difficult and upsetting time for him and his family. But while I dont wish to cause Mr T further 
distress, Im not upholding his complaint. I realise this isnt the answer Mr T wanted, but Ill 
explain my reasons. 
Before I do, Id like to be clear that my decision will only address what I see to be relevant to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So I wont address every comment or point Mr T 
and Lloyds have made to our service. But Id like to reassure them I mean no discourtesy by 
this and that Ive carefully considered everything thats been provided to me. 
I also need to be clear that in this decision Im only considering Lloyds being responsible for 
a misrepresentation on Mr Ts application and its selling of policies to Mr T. Im not 
considering the insurers claim decision or what the insurer did when Mr T contacted it in 
2018 regarding changing to non-smoker rates. And Im not considering what Lloyds did in 
Mrs Ts 2012 application, which I gather is the subject of a separate complaint to Lloyds. 
misrepresentation on the 2012 application
I wasnt present at the 2012 sale meeting so I cant be certain what was discussed. And 
Lloyds says it cant provide the PSRR because it doesnt have a record of this. This is 
unfortunate and I acknowledge Mr Ts concern about it. But other than Mr Ts suggestion, 
Ive not seen anything to make me think Lloyds has deliberately withheld this information. 
However, it does mean there is no documentary evidence of what was discussed in that sale 
meeting regarding Mr Ts circumstances, wants and needs at that time. Mr T says he didnt tell Lloyds he was a non-smoker in 2012, and that if he had, Lloyds 
should have seen he was a smoker from his previous applications and queried this. But I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Lloyds to cross check Mr Ts previous applications. 
Instead, Id expect it to record what Mr T told it about his smoking status. And Mr T says 
Lloyds falsified this information in the 2012 application. 
Even if I were to accept Mr Ts version of events regarding this, its still the case that Mr T is 
ultimately responsible for confirming the application information submitted on his behalf is 
correct. From the application form for policies 555, 556 and 559 , I can see Mr T signed the 
bottom of the declaration that said, amongst other things, It is important that you read this 
form carefully before signing and returning it to [the insurer]. and you declare that to the 
best of your knowledge and belief, the information given in the application, and any changes 
subsequently given in the application summary, is true and complete. Since Mr T signed this 
declaration, its reasonable to think hed read it and agreed with the answers Lloyds gave on 
his behalf. 
Its common practice for consumers to be sent copies of their application answers, so they 
can check them as part of making sure cover has been offered on the correct terms. And in 
this case, Lloyds has provided a screenshot from the insurer to show it sent Mr T a copy of 
his application summary on 1 September 2012. Mr T says he didnt receive this but based on 
the screenshot, I think it was sent to him. And I think it would have been correctly addressed 
to Mr T. I say that because Ive seen copies of the three welcome letters the insurer also 
sent to Mr T on the same day for policies 555, 556, 559, and these were correctly addressed 
to him. I can also see that at the top of the second page of each welcome letter its noted 
Mr T is a non-smoker before setting out the cover details. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr T 
contacted the insurer or Lloyds to say any of the information was incorrect.
Taking all this into consideration, I dont have enough evidence to safely say the 2012 
policies were mis-sold to Mr T on the basis that Lloyds falsified his application, as Mr T 
suggests. 
replacement selling
Mr T has told us hes always been someone who wanted to protect his family financially if 
anything untoward happened and so some form of life and critical illness cover was 
important to him. And that when he talked to Lloyds about further borrowing in 2009 and 
2012, it started proceedings to secure protection for this. I note Lloyds is a tied adviser to the 
insurer in question. 
So it seems Lloyds instigated reviews of Mr Ts protection needs when he took further 
borrowing over the years. That in itself isnt necessarily an unfair or unreasonable thing for 
Lloyds to do. But Mr T says Lloyds didnt give him the most suitable advice and that its 
replacement selling was at an unreasonable level and done for Lloyds benefit.
I should explain here that our approach isnt to look back and say what the optimum policies 
should have been during sales over the years. Instead, our approach is to consider whether 
the policies sold were suitable at that particular point in time. And different ways of providing 
life and critical illness protection can still all be suitable, albeit to a greater or lesser degree, 
depending on the consumers particular circumstances, wants and needs at that time. 
Ive considered the main protection policies Mr T was sold in 2007, 2009 and 2012, as these 
are the ones Mr T has raised concerns about. 
2007 saleIve been provided with the PSRR for this sale. It records that Mr T was concerned about 
ensuring there was money in the event of death, critical illness or long term sickness. And 
that Mr T had existing cover of £151,251 on a level term basis for 23 years. Mr T says he 
took out further mortgage borrowing in 2007, and the PSRR notes his mortgage was 
£171,203 for the next 24 years and 11 months. So Mr Ts existing cover didnt protect his full 
liability. And his existing cover was on a level term, rather than a decreasing term to match 
his mortgage. 
Lloyds recommended a life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £171,203 on a 
decreasing basis for 25 years for monthly premiums of £131.15. But the PSRR notes show 
Mr T wasnt able to commit to this monthly premium and wanted to be the sure premiums 
were affordable over the term of the policy, and that Mr T thought some critical illness cover 
was better than none. Lloyds therefore recommended two policies which in total cost about 
half of the policy it initially recommended, which Mr T bought:
decreasing life cover with a sum assured of £121,203 over a 25 year term; and
decreasing life and critical illness cover with a sum assured of £50,000 over 25 years 
This meant Mr Ts mortgage was fully protected with life cover over the right term and partly 
protected with critical illness cover over the right term, in line with Mr Ts wishes and as far 
as his budget allowed. And both these policies were on a decreasing basis, as Mr Ts 
mortgage would be. For these reasons, I think this was a suitable recommendation. 
2009 sale
Ive also been provided with the PSRR for this sale. It notes Mr T was interested in 
protection to ensure there was money when needed in the event of death, critical illness or 
long term sickness. It also notes Mr Ts mortgage totalled £179,730 with sub accounts on 
terms of between 19 and 22 years, and that he had a loan of £15,000 over a seven year 
term. So Mr T had liabilities of £194,730 at this time, albeit over various term lengths.
The PSRR notes Mr T has a protection shortfall, particularly for critical illness. It shows four 
existing policies provided £181,098 of life cover and £63,211 of critical illness cover in total - 
two of these policies were taken out in 2008, and Mr T says hes not concerned about these 
so Ive not considered their sale further. The PSRR also noted Mr T had family and lifestyle 
protection needs of £60,480 that werent currently being protected. 
But the PSRR notes Mr T was mindful of budget and so Lloyds ultimately recommended:
a decreasing life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £15,000 over seven 
years to protect Mr Ts loan. 
a decreasing life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £170,000 over 22 
years to protect Mr Ts mortgage within the available budget. 
a level term life and critical illness policy with a sum assured of £16,277 over 26 
years when Mr T retired to protect his family and lifestyle needs. 
Mr T should cancel his existing policies, except for the one providing decreasing life 
and critical illness cover with a sum assured of £9,795 over 19 years. 
Mr T bought these policies, and I think they were suitable for him. I say that because the 
£15,000 policy fully protected Mr Ts loan for its whole term, on a decreasing basis as the 
loan would be. And when taken together, the existing £9,795 policy and the new £170,000 
policy fully protected Mr Ts mortgage for the right terms and on a rightly decreasing basis 
by. And since Mr T was married with children, its not unreasonable for Lloyds to have 
recommended at least some family and lifestyle protection to him, and the PSRR suggests it 
tailored its recommendation about this to better suit Mr Ts budget. I know Mr T has suggested Lloyds should have instead used the existing policy for £50,000. 
But as I say, its recommendations were suitable. And I think Lloyds made use of existing 
policies where reasonable, as it recommended Mr T keep the £9,795 policy to protect the 
part of the mortgage that was on a 19 year term. 
2012
As Ive said, Lloyds hasnt been able to provide the 2012 PSRR so there isnt a record of 
what was discussed in that sale meeting about Mr Ts current circumstances, wants and 
needs.
Therefore Ive considered the evidence I do have. Ive been provided with a letter from 
Mr Ts mortgage lender dated 18 August 2012 confirming additional borrowing and that
Mr Ts various mortgage sub-accounts totalled £180,044.00 over terms of between 16 and 
19 years. 
And Ive been provided with policy documents that show Mr T and Mrs T took out the 
following policies in 2012:
decreasing life and critical illness cover (policy ending 556) with a sum assured of 
£153,137 for 20 years
decreasing life and critical illness cover (policy 559) with a sum assured of £16,995 
for 18 years
decreasing life and critical illness cover (policy 555) with a sum assured of £10,404 
for 16 years
As I dont have the PSRR, I cant say exactly why Lloyds recommended these particular 
policies. I know Mr T says Lloyds should have advised him to keep the £170,000 policy 
taken out in 2009 and the £50,000 policy taken out in 2007 since together they would have 
adequately covered the mortgage. But that 2007 policy had been cancelled prior to 2012. 
And the 2009 policy didnt cover Mr Ts full mortgage liability. 
Its clear from Mr Ts testimony and the PSRR from 2007 and 2009 that protecting his 
liabilities in the event of death or critical illness was very important to him. And the policies 
Mr T took out after getting advice from Lloyds in 2012 provided life and critical illness cover 
for Mr Ts total mortgage borrowing at that time on a decreasing basis. 
Given all this, I think these policies were suitable recommendations. And I can see from 
previous PSRRs that Mr T didnt always go along with Lloyds initial recommendations. So I 
think its more likely than not that he was able to make an informed choice about what Lloyds 
recommended in 2012.
I note Mr T has questioned why after this sale, four policies were retained on minimum 
premiums until they were cancelled in June 2013. I dont have the 2012 PSRR that might 
shed light on this, and Lloyds says it doesnt know. So I cant say for certain what happened.
But Ive been provided with the August 2012 change request form used to ask Mr Ts insurer 
to minimise the monthly premiums on these four policies. The form includes tick boxes to 
select what change is being requested, and the options include changing the sum 
assured/reducing premiums, or cancelling the policy. The changing sum assured/reducing 
premiums box has been ticked and it is noted the new premiums should be minimum per 
month because cost of cover. cover does not meet mortgage requirements. Ultimately, Mr T 
signed the form so its reasonable to think he wanted the premiums to be minimised rather 
than cancelled at this point, even if we cant be sure of the reasons.So I think the evidence Ive been provided with shows there was a need for cover and that 
Mr T was able to make informed decisions. Taking everything into consideration, Im 
satisfied Lloyds gave Mr T suitable recommendations in 2007, 2009 and 2012.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman