DRN-3593020
The complaint
Mr M says that Dentons Pension Management Limited (Dentons) was responsible for delays 
in effecting his disinvestment instructions when he decided to switch certain of his Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) funds to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension 
Scheme (QROPS). He says this caused him significant financial detriment.
Mr M is represented by his financial adviser.
What happened
Mr Ms Sippchoice Bespoke SIPP comprised a Trustee Investment Account (TIA) and a 
Fund Administration Bond (FAB). The former was held with St James's Place UK plc (SJP). 
He decided to switch his pension to a Trireme QROPS. Dentons, was the administrator of Mr 
Ms SIPP.
Its helpful in cases like Mr Ms to review the chronology of events, which has been 
constructed from evidence provided by Dentons, SJP and Mr M.
26 February 2020  Dentons received the switch request from Trireme.
4 March 2020 - Following receipt of the switch request, Dentons carried out necessary 
checks and then wrote to SJP (Ireland) for the disinvestment and closure of Mr Ms FAB and 
to SJP (UK) with the same instructions for his TIA.
10 March 2020 - SJP Ireland confirmed receipt of the request.
12 March 2020  following some chasing by Mr Ms financial adviser, Dentons contacted 
SJP UK. It says it was told to email the paperwork across, which it did the same day.
19 March 2020 - Dentons still hadnt received a response and so sent another email and 
paperwork.
24 March 2020  Mr Ms adviser called to understand the status of the transaction.
25 March 2020 - Dentons called SJP again as it still hadnt received a response. It says on 
this telephone call it was told the instructions hadnt been received and another copy should 
be sent by recorded delivery. I understand the papers were issued that day. It says during 
this call SJP confirmed it was having administrative problems and that two other requests for 
different clients had been mis-filed and therefore not actioned.
26 March 2020  Bank details were provided by Trireme.
30 March 2020  SJP wrote to Dentons confirming disinvestment of around £97,300 and 
notifying associated charges of about £3,000.
1 April 2020  Mr Ms funds were received into Mr Ms SIPP bank account.
6 April 2020 - Dentons received SJPs letter confirming the switch of funds.
7 April 2020  Dentons sent the funds to Trireme. 
During this process Mr Ms adviser raised a complaint against Dentons and SJP about what 
had happened. In his letter to the former he raised several concerns, which he summarised 
in the following terms:
I am writing this letter on 02/04/20 and still Mr. M's funds have not been received by 
Dentons despite alleged numerous conversations between yourselves, Mr. M and St. 
James's Place. From the outset, there appears to have been a lack of transparency 
regarding when and how the instructions to disinvest were sent by Dentons and received by 
St. James's Place.
Please explain why a highly important, original document signed in wet ink apparently was 
not sent by recorded post to St. James's Place, contributing to delay and as a result 
contributing to my client's financial loss. This would appear to show a clear lack of care and 
professionalism
In responding to Mr M in April 2020, Dentons rejected his complaint. It said:
I acknowledge that the initial cause of the delay was due to Dentons putting an incorrect 
SJP Reference Number on one of the documents. However, I consider this to be immaterial 
in the context of this complaint.
I note that SJP acknowledged to [our representative] that: ...they were having issuesand 
that it would have been better to send the document by Recorded Delivery'.
'...staff had placed the Dentons documents (including those for other clients) in the wrong 
'pile' and, for this reason, there was a delay of three weeks in actioning them'.
Additionally, I understand that Mr M has the authority to conduct trades with SJP himself - 
without the need for the involvement of Dentons. I also believe thathis English adviser, 
acting as an Appointed Representative of SJP, had similar authority
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think Dentons had done anything 
wrong. While she found there had been a delay in the transaction, she considered this was 
the fault of SJP, which was the subject of a separate but linked case. Mr M disagreed. He 
thought Dentons had shown a lack of care and diligence.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ms case 
has been passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in June. 
Dentons didnt think I should uphold Mr Ms case. It provided more information about its 
service standards and said it had met these. It said I hadnt taken into account the impact of 
COVID. And it thought Id been unfair in how Id apportioned responsibility between it and 
SJP and in my proposed redress methodology. 
Mr M was content with the outcome Id arrived at but thought I should provide redress from 
the same date at which SJP (Ireland) had managed to effect that transaction. 
Ill deal with both parties responses where matters raised are material in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ms case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Dentons for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Dentons. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Im also mindful of sector best practice issued by the Transfers and Re-registration Industry 
Group (TRIG), whose membership included several trade bodies. In 2018 it published 
Industry-wide framework for improving transfers and re-registrations. It noted:
When moving investments, assets and entitlements between institutions, people have a 
legitimate right to expect the industry to execute their instructions in a timely and efficient 
manner. Furthermore, customers service expectations are increasing due to the relative 
simplicity of switching in other markets. Slow transfers can cause detriment to customers; 
and the actions of one party can reduce the efficiency of all parties in the chain.
In this publication TRIG established what it considered to be reasonable timeframes for firms 
to adhere to for transactions like those being performed for Mr M. While it noted the 
importance of using electronic means, it also acknowledged that certain elements of certain 
transactions would continue to require manual processes, including the use of postal 
services. And that often there were more than two firms involved in the process, which also 
built more friction into the process.
I dont think either Dentons or SJP can mount a strong argument it was fair and reasonable 
to Mr M that the switch of his SIPP funds into his QROPS, which was initiated with the 
receipt of the request from Trireme on 26 February, then took six weeks for Dentons to issue 
the funds to his new provider.
Both Dentons and SJP have alluded to failures with each others organisations as the cause 
of some of the delays Mr M experienced. Ive also found some of the answers each firm has 
supplied to this Service to have been obscure. 
Im mindful this decision concerns the role of Dentons. Im considering a complaint against 
SJP separately. But clearly both are linked. So, I set out here my findings and conclusions 
about each firm, and these will be largely replicated in my parallel decision on Mr Ms SJP 
complaint.In respect of Dentons, I depart from the Investigators conclusions that it hadnt done 
anything wrong in this transaction. I think it has a case to answer, including in respect of the 
following matters.
In responding to Mr Ms complaint, Dentons acknowledged that the initial cause of the delay 
was due to it putting an incorrect reference number on one of the documents. When this 
Service asked why it believed this issue hadnt been material to the overall situation, it 
restated the rationale set out in its letter from April 2020:
 [Mr M] and/or his appointed adviser, were able to deal with SJP without our involvement, 
andSJP admitted to long delays and mistakes at their end, and so Dentons reference 
number error should be viewed in this light.
I dont find Dentons arguments persuasive. Firstly, it may or may not have been the case 
that Mr M and/or his adviser couldve effected the transaction without its involvement. But 
theres evidence on file that it had performed the same role a few days earlier for a smaller 
disinvestment exercise. And theres no evidence it told Mr M or his adviser it would be better 
if they dealt with the switch.
Dentons argument about problems at SJP appear to be based on conversations its staff had 
concerning other clients. Those file notes specifically identify particular issues. But SJPs file 
note for Mr M doesnt capture such information. It seems Dentons extrapolated problems 
with other transactions onto what had happened with Mr M.
In its response to my provisional decision, Dentons has now acknowledged in clear terms 
that the error it made which it acknowledged in its final response caused a delay in the 
transaction of over a week. It had initially stated this hadnt been material. But clearly, such 
an issue had a knock on effect through the chain of events to follow.
We asked Dentons to provide information about its usual service standards. It initially told us 
that it had never published service standards but had received many awards from the FT 
Adviser for five-star service, voted for by the industry. 
Of course, my interest was in the service Mr M received in the specific circumstances of his 
case. And just because it hasnt published service standards didnt mean it couldnt inform 
this Service what they were. Dentons has now told us that its terms of business, which it 
says it communicated to him every year, were that it would act on instructions within seven 
working days. It says it managed to do this.
Nevertheless, and looking more broadly at the end to end process rather than just the initial 
instruction, industry best practice suggests the starting point for considering how long most 
steps should take in a transaction like that Dentons was performing for Mr M was around two 
days. Accepting an extra day where matters involved manual processes. And the further 
complication of firms outside of the direct ceding/receiving relationship.
Dentons has raised the effect of COVID-19 on business operations. I think this is a 
reasonable point to make. While it undoubtedly wouldve had an impact, I also note it didnt 
affect all businesses equally and that the majority of transactions continued to be effected in 
good time. 
While Ive borne this matter in mind, and is in part why Ive rejected Mr Ms request to 
assume the switch shouldve happened in line with the transaction effected by SJP (Ireland), 
its not done enough to demonstrate this was the main reason for the delay he experienced.Im not satisfied Dentons did enough to follow-up inactivity at SJP after it had sent its letter of 
4 March 2020 requesting the disinvestment of his TIA holdings and for proceeds to be 
placed in his cash account. It initially failed to follow-up the instruction until 12 March 2020, 
after the intervention of Mr Ms adviser. At this point it shouldve been on alert, but its 
subsequent chasing of SJP didnt happen until 19 March 2020 and finally on 25 March 2020.
Turning to SJP. I agree broadly with the Investigators findings and conclusions.
SJP says it didnt receive Dentons instructions of 4 March 2020. Ive concluded its more 
likely than not it was issued. Ive seen a copy of the letter and I note that a similar instruction 
sent on the same day to SJPs Ireland office in respect of Mr Ms FAB was received on 10 
March 2020.
SJP says that because the documents Dentons sent were posted first class post it was 
outside of its control. It says it didnt hear anything from Dentons until its phone call of 25 
March 2020. I dont find its arguments persuasive.
In its final response letter to Mr M SJP said:
I see from the response that [Dentons] acknowledged the root cause of the initial delay 
was due to their incorrect SJP Reference Number. Regrettably, Dentons consider this 
immaterial and have not upheld your complaint on that basis. We do not consider this to be 
immaterial as your documentation would have been matched to the correct file had this been 
provided. This would explain the fact that we did not receive their request.
This response from SJP implies it received Dentons original instruction, but that it wasnt 
matched to the correct file. When this Service sought to clarify this matter, SJPs reply was 
odd, it said:
I am unsure where Mr M has got this information of supposedly where we had misplaced 
the original request that was meant to have been sent in by Dentons on the 4 March 2020. 
There is no call notes or there is nothing on any letter that we had sent to either Dentons or 
the Client.
I think SJP is actually maintaining it never received Dentons original instruction of 4 March 
2020. But by engaging with the matter raised by Dentons about its incorrect referencing of 
that letter, it muddies the waters.
SJP told this Service it didnt hear from Dentons until 25 March 2020. It doesnt have any 
record of the two phone calls Dentons says it made to it on 12 and 19 March 2020. This was 
when it says it was told to send the documents by email. Ive seen copies of the 
correspondence Dentons sent SJP on these dates, attaching copies of the paperwork it 
originally sent on 4 March 2020.
Theres no evidence that SJP responded to either of Dentons emails. Had it done so, telling 
Dentons their initial request hadnt been received, it follows the instructions wouldve been 
posted again and less of a delay caused to Mr M.
I think the switch of Mr Ms SIPP funds to his new QROPS was delayed as a result of the 
acts and omissions of Dentons and SJP. I find that the way Dentons and SJP worked 
together to give effect to the transfer of his pension funds was disjointed and inefficient. 
There were examples of poor communication and handling. This, together with the issues 
Ive set out, led to a delay in the transfer of his funds.
The Investigator concluded that SJP had been responsible for around 6 working days delay. 
The assessment of how many days Mr Ms switch was delayed isnt a matter of science. Its not possible to say with certainty what the effect of any failing by one firm was on the other, 
and vice versa. And the issues arising happened at various stages as each firm passed the 
baton back and forth.
Its a matter of considering whats fair in the circumstances. I think the Investigator has 
underestimated the delays Mr M experienced. Given that Ive found failings with the handling 
of both firms and on a broader front, I think an assessment of 12 working days delay is fair. 
So, if things had gone more smoothly, I think Dentons wouldve been able to switch fund to 
his QROPS on 20 March 2020, instead of 7 April 2020. And Ive concluded that its more 
likely than not both firms were equally responsible for what happened.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ms case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Dentons Pension Management Limited 50% responsible for.
Dentons and SJP will need to coordinate an assessment of loss. In broad terms, they need 
to carry out a comparison between current value of the funds transferred, and what the value 
wouldve been at the calculation date, if the funds had been transferred on the date they 
should have been. This is in line with the usual approach of this Service.
So, Dentons Pension Management Limited needs to:
1. Determine the transfer value of Mr Ms SIPP TIA pension holdings had they been sold 12 
working days earlier.
2. Using the notional value at (1), it will need to apply this to the same mix of investments, on 
the same date and in the same proportions, to those Mr M actually made following the switch 
to his QROPS in April 2020.
3. Find the notional value of what Mr Ms investments wouldve been worth at the date of 
calculation.
4. Compare (3) with the current value of Mr Ms equivalent investments in his QROPS 
(assuming that is still in existence), at the same date of calculation.
5. If there is a loss, Dentons should pay 50% of this sum into Mr M's pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation. Payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Dentons shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
6. If Dentons is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
7. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Mr M wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
8. Provide the details of the calculations to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Dentons Pension Management Limited should also pay Mr M £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failings in the transaction to switch his SIPP funds.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint, and I require Dentons 
Pension Management Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman