DRN-2756700
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lexington Wealth Management Ltd levied excessive charges when 
providing him with advice on his pension savings between 2009 and 2012.
What happened
Mr C has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, 
and from, Mr C himself.
Mr C held pension savings in a personal pension plan. Those savings had been transferred 
into that plan in 2008 following some earlier advice from Lexington. That advice has 
previously been the subject of another complaint that was decided by another ombudsman. 
So in this decision I will not be looking at what happened in 2008  my investigations and 
conclusions will start from the advice that was provided to Mr C in 2009, and be based on his 
circumstances at that time.
In 2009 Mr C told Lexington that his circumstances meant that he would like to take a 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) from his 
pension savings. But he said that at that time he had no need to take any regular income 
from his pension savings. So Lexington recommended that Mr C move his pension plan into 
a drawdown arrangement. In line with its agreed schedule of charges, Mr C paid £2,893.56 
to Lexington for that advice.
This complaint also comprises two further charges that Mr C paid to Lexington. In 2010 he 
met with Lexington to review a number of matters. From the notes produced at the time, the 
discussions included a review of Mr Cs pension arrangements including plans to rebalance 
the investments that he held, and discussions about the creation of a new will for Mr C, and 
potentially for his wife. Mr C paid £500 to Lexington in 2010. And following a further review 
meeting in 2012 Mr C agreed an additional payment of £250 to Lexington for its services.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
charges Mr C had paid to Lexington had been in line with the client agreement that he had 
signed. And he thought that it wouldnt be reasonable to conclude that the level of those 
charges was excessive. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr C, didnt agree with that assessment. Although it accepted that 
Lexington had been able to provide documentation showing Mr Cs agreement to the 
charges it said that didnt mean the charges were fair. It thought that it would be right to 
consider the entirety of Mr Cs relationship with Lexington, and therefore the total amount of 
fees he had paid over the years, rather than looking at each charge in isolation. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by Lexington. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The matters that Mr C is complaining about took place many years ago. So it isnt entirely 
surprising that some of the documentation from the time is no longer available. I havent 
drawn any adverse conclusions about any documentation being missing, but it does mean 
that I need to make some limited assumptions about what it might have contained.
Lexington hasnt been able to give us a copy of the advice report it provided to Mr C in 2009 
when he was considering taking his PCLS. But it doesnt seem to me that Mr C is 
complaining about whether that advice was appropriate. It seems his complaint is instead 
about the amount of the charges that he was asked to pay for that advice.
As I said earlier, Lexington had facilitated the consolidation of Mr Cs pension benefits into a 
single plan the year before. By doing so it opened the door for Mr C to take some of his 
pension benefits  in particular his PCLS  in 2009. But I dont think the fact that Mr C could 
take his benefits in that way, means that it would have automatically been appropriate for 
him to do so. Pension savings are intended to provide for a consumers financial needs 
across the whole of their retirement. Taking some of the benefits early, as Mr C was 
proposing, might have adverse impacts on later income availability. So I think it reasonable 
that Lexington might want to undertake some analysis before it provided advice to Mr C 
about taking some of his pension benefits at that time.
I have seen some limited evidence of that analysis taking place. And as I said earlier it 
doesnt seem that Mr C has complained about the suitability of Lexingtons advice. Ultimately 
as a result of his discussions with Lexington, and the advice he received, Mr C opted to take 
an Unsecured Income product.
In the client agreement that he signed, Lexington set out the charges that Mr C would need 
to pay for advice about putting his pension savings into payment. Im not entirely happy that 
Lexington has been able to explain the exact basis on which it calculated the charge it levied 
on Mr C for that advice. But it does seem to me that the charge it asked Mr C to pay was 
most likely less than could have been charged under a strict interpretation of the client 
agreement. And I can see that Mr C was provided with a clear invoice for that charge that he 
signed to show his acceptance of the costs.
But I have also carefully considered the arguments made by Mr C that simply being aware of 
the charge isnt enough. He says that the charge also needs to be appropriate for the work 
that Lexington undertook, and that he considers the charge to be excessive.
I dont think it is appropriate for me to become involved in a detailed analysis of whether Lexington provided Mr C with value for money. As I said earlier, I am satisfied that the 
charge had been explained to Mr C beforehand and that he gave his agreement to its 
deduction. Im not persuaded that it was inappropriate for Lexington to charge Mr C for 
providing its advice on putting his pension into payment. And I havent seen anything that 
persuades me I should think its charges were excessive when compared to my experience 
of similar agreements elsewhere in the marketplace.
And I think the same applies to the, admittedly far smaller, charges that Mr C paid in 2010 
and 2012. 
I have seen a detailed note following the meeting in 2010 that set out the discussions 
Lexington had with Mr C. It seems to me that the preparation for that meeting, and the 
subsequent discussions, were on matters that Mr C considered to be important and directly 
relevant to his circumstances at that time. It isnt unreasonable for an advisor to set out and 
agree a charge with a consumer for the work they are undertaking. And although the details 
are less complete about what was discussed in 2012, again Mr C was aware of, and agreed 
to, the charge that he paid. I can only conclude that, at the time, Mr C was satisfied that he 
was being charged for advice and servicing that he reasonably required from Lexington.
I have considered, as the CMC suggests, whether it would be appropriate to look at the 
charges Lexington took from Mr C in aggregate. There is no doubt that, over a period of 
almost 10 years, Lexington provided Mr C with a number of different pieces of advice, and 
received payment for doing so. But I dont think that means Mr C should have been given 
some sort of reduction, or discount, on the individual charges. For the three charges I am 
considering in this decision, I am satisfied that the advice was needed and appropriate to 
Mr Cs circumstances at the time. And I havent seen anything to make me conclude that the 
charges, either individually or in aggregate, were excessive.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr C. But I dont think Lexington has 
acted inappropriately in either the manner, or value, of the charges that it levied between 
2009 and 2012. I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lexington Wealth Management Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman