DRN-3984279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled their claim on 
their home insurance policy following a fire at their property.
Throughout this complaint Mr and Mrs B have been represented by a third party. However 
for ease of reading Ill refer only to Mr B. All references to Mr B include the actions of Mrs B 
and their representative
What happened
Mr B had home insurance with AXA. In May 2020 there was a fire at his property that caused 
substantial damage. He made a claim.
AXA accepted the claim and later agreed to Mr B appointing a surveyor to oversee the 
required work.
When the claim was made AXA were informed that Mr B and his family werent living 
permanently at the property as they were about to undertake some significant renovations.
AXA initially queried whether full policy cover would apply, but later accepted it would as 
Mr B had called to inform it of his intentions before the work started. However the planned 
renovation work made the claim more difficult to settle, as AXA was only required to pay for 
damage caused by the fire, and not work to change or renovate the property.
Over the months that followed there was much debate over the scope of work that would be 
covered by AXA. Initially both sides agreed to cash settle the claim, but due to a requirement 
to get authority from Mr Bs mortgage provider this was later changed to settlement based on 
reinstatement. This required Mr B to provide invoices for work as it was completed, for AXA 
to validate and pay.
However AXA didnt agree to pay the full costs Mr B and his surveyor requested. It said Mr B 
hadnt provided a detailed scope of works setting out what the costs were for, which meant it 
was unable to validate whether the amounts would be covered under the policy or not. 
It initially agreed a final total payment (for buildings costs) of around £221,000. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this as he said there were outstanding costs. He said surveyor fees 
hadnt been paid as had been agreed, and the cost for the work was over £330,000 so AXA 
hadnt paid enough to restore the property. He was also unhappy that AXA had only agreed 
to pay for ten months disturbance allowance when  it should have been for longer .
He made a complaint and AXA upheld it. It said it would increase its final settlement to 
around £264,000, it would pay 12 months disturbance allowance and £500 compensation to 
make up for the delay in settling the claim.
Mr B wasnt happy with this offer as he said AXA still hadnt paid the full amount due based 
on the scope of works from his surveyor, which had increased further due to increases in 
building costs. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
thought AXA should pay for a new report from an independent surveyor who would decide 
what claim related work is outstanding, and AXA should settle the claim based on their 
recommendations. He also thought AXA should pay an additional £500 compensation for 
delays throughout the claim.
Mr B accepted our investigators outcome, however he wanted his own surveyor to complete 
the report as he was familiar with the claim to date.
AXA agreed to pay the compensation, however didnt agree that a new report would be 
helpful. It said as most of the damage was now repaired it would add no value. And Mr B 
had failed to demonstrate the claim related costs and the onus was on him to do so. AXA 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
On 31 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision that stated as follows:
Claim related costs
This claim has been complicated by the fact that Mr B had just started to renovate the 
property. This meant that if he was to complete works to rectify the fire damage and to bring 
it up to the standard he was planning to renovate, then a proportion of the cost wouldnt be 
covered under the policy, as it is only required to rectify damage and not to make 
improvements.
Due to this, its reasonable that AXA asked to validate the invoices and scope of works for 
the work that was being completed. So that it could confirm that the work it was paying for 
was covered by the policy.
Mr B provided a breakdown of the costs of the work and invoices from his contractor. 
However the detail contained in these was minimal. The documents didnt provide a 
breakdown of what the total was made up of or the exact work that was being carried out. 
This made it difficult for AXA to understand whether the costs were related to the claim or 
not.
I can see that AXA queried this numerous times throughout the claim and asked for further 
detail about the costs. But as this wasnt forthcoming, it calculated a settlement amount 
based on what it considered to be a fair amount.
Ive considered this and I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably here. As it is only obliged 
to pay for claim related costs, it is reasonable and usual that it will need to validate the work 
that is to be completed to make sure this meets its liability and doesnt exceed it. Even more 
so in a case where renovation work was taking place. And it was unable to do this 
effectively, because the invoices provided had minimal detail. And even the scope of works 
didnt provide a breakdown of costs.
AXA has calculated what it considers to be a reasonable settlement, based on the 
information it had available. And in the absence of a detailed breakdown from Mr B I think 
this was a fair approach to ensure the work could be progressed but without going above its 
liability.
If Mr B considers this to be below what is required to cover the claim related costs, its for 
him to evidence this by providing a more detailed breakdown of the costs he is claiming, that 
includes a full breakdown of what each amount is for and evidence of any related price rises. 
As he hasnt done this, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly.Should Mr B provide a more detailed breakdown I would expect AXA to consider this and re- 
look at its final settlement if necessary. But up until this point, I dont consider AXAs actions 
in regards to the settlement to be unfair or unreasonable. I therefore wont ask it to take any 
further action in this regard.
Further, Mr B has said that AXA hasnt paid his surveyors fees as agreed. However from 
looking at AXAs calculations, these appear to have been included in the payments its 
made. If Mr B doesnt think AXA has paid enough for these, he will need to demonstrate this 
through detailed invoices of the costs that remain outstanding. But as he has been unable to 
do this up until now, then I dont think AXA has acted unfairly.
Compensation
From looking at the correspondence between Mr B and AXA and its agents, I think the claim 
could have been moved forward more promptly. There is a period of time between around 
June 2020 and February 2021 where very little progress is made on the claim. Its clear 
there were delays caused by both sides, however as the insurer, I think AXA could and 
should have done more to make it clear to Mr B what it required from him in order to move 
the claim forward. Instead conversations covered the same ground and the claim reached a 
deadlock.
While AXA explained to Mr B a number of times that it required more detail in the scopes he 
was providing, it was clear that he wasnt understanding exactly what was required as he 
continued to provide invoices with little detail. Further, a lot of time was spent between June 
and December 2020 discussing a cash settlement, that was later abandoned due to the 
requirement of sign off from Mr Bs mortgage lender. And while AXA provided a letter that he 
could give to his mortgage provider, this wasnt until a long time into the discussion. As an 
insurer it is likely AXA will have a much greater understanding of this process than Mr B, so 
it should reasonably provide information and guidance about the process in order to assist 
him. And I think this could have been done a lot sooner.
Further, Mr B has explained that he has three children of school age, and they had to stay 
away from their home for a significant amount of time. While this couldnt have been avoided 
completely, as the fire would always have meant hed need to move out for a period, as AXA 
delayed the claim unnecessarily this meant he was out of the home for longer which no 
doubt caused additional distress to him and his family.
Because of this I agree with our investigator that AXA should pay an additional £500 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused due to these 
unnecessary delays.
Response to my provisional findings
AXA responded to accept my provisional findings. 
However Mr B didnt accept my proposed outcome. He provided a detailed response that 
explained again why he doesnt think AXA had acted fairly. The response included many  
points, but in summary the ones I consider key were:
The tin hat that was put on the property to protect it from bad weather took ten weeks 
to put in place and Mr B had to raise it numerous times. In this time significant 
damage had been caused to the house by the bad weather. This increased claim 
costs and distress caused and Mr B felt this hadnt been considered in my review.
The complaint was dealt with poorly by AXA and it took a long time for it to 
investigate and have a final response issued.AXAs loss adjuster had said to Mr B at a site visit that the invoices he provided for 
payment wouldnt need to contain much detail and thats why he only provided one 
page documents. 
My provisional decision was incorrect as they didnt ever agree to cash settle, it was 
just an option that was explored and rejected by them.
My provisional decision simplified the matter which meant the complaint wasnt 
properly considered.
Mr B said to AXA that he would provide more detail, but AXA just said that the claim 
had been fully settled so there wasnt the opportunity for Mr B to do so.
AXA has now said a new report would add no value because all the repairs have 
been completed, even though this is what its requested at various times since the 
repair work was completed. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr and Mrs B to pay for a report to show what costs havent 
been paid, this should be covered by AXA as recommended by our investigator.
The provisional decision doesnt once refer to ICOBs even though Mr B pointed out 
that there have been various breaches. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has been through a difficult time with this claim and therefore feels 
strongly about what has happened. Hes provided substantial information to support his 
complaint that amounts to over 1,500 pages of documents. I want to assure him Ive 
considered everything hes said and provided very carefully when reaching my decision.  
However, were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the 
courts. I therefore havent commented directly on every point Mr Bs raised. Instead Ive 
focussed my review on the issues that I consider to be key. I note Mr B has said he 
considers that Ive simplified matters and that this shows Ive not considered the complaint 
properly. I want to reassure him that I have considered everything provided. And the fact I 
have kept my review to the key issues isnt meant as a discourtesy, but instead just reflects 
the informal nature of this service. 
I want to add that while Mr B provided around 200 documents in response to my provisional 
decision, the vast majority of these had already been provided as part of his original 
submission. And anything that had been provided previously, I had already considered when 
reaching my outcome. 
Claim related costs
I understand Mr B feels strongly that AXA hasnt paid the full amount for the claim and 
understandably feels that hes been done a disservice as a result . However this is a 
complex claim. And the costs are made more complex by the fact that there is a plan for 
additional renovations to be carried out and the necessary claim related costs have likely 
increased as the claim has progressed. As Im sure Mr B understands, AXA are only obliged 
to pay for what is covered under the policy. And because of these complexities and 
variances, it is very important that it is able to validate the work that has been completed to 
make sure the costs are claim related and would be covered.
The invoices that have been provided to AXA to pay are limited to just detailing the amount 
the work has cost, with no detail of what work this relates to. And the table provided by Mr B of the costs paid and those not, provides no more detail about what the costs relate to. While 
I appreciate Mr B feels this is enough to validate the claim, in practise this just shows that 
hes paid more on work to the property than AXA has paid. It doesnt show that there are 
claim related costs that are outstanding, and that is the crux of the matter. Its reasonable for 
AXA to ask for information about what work these costs relate to and in the absence of this 
detail, AXA has made a substantial payment based on their assessment of what was claim 
related work. And in the absence of further evidence to prove this isnt enough, I still think 
this was a fair approach. 
Mr B has said that he was told by AXAs loss adjuster that he would only need to provide 
invoices with very limited detail on, in order for payment to be made. And while I dont doubt 
this account, AXA has asked for further detail on the work that was being invoiced for 
throughout the claim. So I think this would have been enough to show that the limited 
invoices werent sufficient. 
Mr B has also said that the fact a tin hat wasnt added to the property until ten weeks after 
the event caused additional damage to the property as rain was able to get into the interiors. 
I agree this delay is likely to have caused some additional damage due to the property being 
unprotected. And AXA has agreed that additional work will have been required to rectify this. 
However AXA factored this into the claim settlement it paid and Ive not seen any evidence 
that the cost of rectifying the damage hasnt been covered in the settlement. I recognise the 
delay in having the tin hat installed was frustrating and caused Mr B the inconvenience of 
having to repeatedly ask AXA to install it. And I factored this in when I considered the 
compensation AXA should pay for distress and inconvenience. 
Mr B has expressed that he doesnt think it fair that he should have to cover the cost of a 
report to show if there is claim related damage that hasnt been paid for. And I understand 
why he feels that way. However AXA has paid what it considers to be all claim related costs 
and, as I said in my provisional findings, based on the information it had available I think its 
done this fairly. If there are costs outstanding then its for Mr B to evidence this. And from the 
detail provided so far, hes not done enough to show this. Should he pay for a report that 
subsequently proves there are additional claim related costs that havent been paid Id 
expect AXA to consider reimbursing the cost of the report. 
The contents of my provisional decision
Mr B has commented on several elements of my provisional decision that he considers to be 
inaccurate. For example he says that the cash settlement was only ever considered and was 
rejected by him rather than being due to the fact he couldnt get agreement from his 
mortgage provider. I apologise if he feels I have misrepresented the facts. However I want to 
reassure him that the details in question have no bearing on my decision on the case as they 
dont relate to the key issues in dispute. 
Hes also said that in his original submission he detailed the ways in which he feels AXA 
hasnt met its obligations under various rules and guidance, including the Insurance Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and the FCAs Dispute Resolution rules (DISP). However I 
failed to reference any rules or guidance in my decision. I want to assure Mr B that when 
making decisions we consider all the relevant rules and guidance, as well as industry best 
practice, when considering whether a business acted fairly and reasonably. So while Ive not 
referenced these, I have taken them into consideration as part of my decision making 
process.
CompensationAfter considering everything again, I am satisfied that my conclusion that AXA should pay an 
additional £500 compensation to make up for the additional distress and inconvenience it 
caused is a fair one, for the reasons I have outlined previously.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to pay an additional £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman