DRN-3286724
The complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect her from losing money to 
an investment scam.
What happened
Ms D has explained that she was contacted by a merchant called GMO Trading and was 
persuaded to make payments towards what she thought was a trading investment. The 
payments were made using Ms Ds Lloyds debit card. They appear on her account 
statements as follows.
Transaction no. Date Merchant Amount (£)
1 07 June 2018 GMOTRADING.COM 250
2 08 June 2018 RoyalForexLTD 700
3 11 June 2018 RoyalForexLTD 500
4 11 June 2018 RoyalForexLTD 3,500
5 31 January 2019 GMOTRADING.COM 700
Total 5,650
Ms D got in touch with Lloyds about some of these transactions in June 2018. Remaining 
unhappy, Ms D subsequently complained to Lloyds. Lloyds paid Ms D £100 compensation 
for service issues but didnt otherwise reimburse Ms Ds payments. Remaining unhappy, Ms 
D referred her complaint about Lloyds to us. As our investigator (who didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld) was unable to resolve matters informally, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for essentially the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive explained why below. 
Lloyds had a duty to protect Ms D (its customer) against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money 
laundering. But when simply executing Mr Ds authorised payments, it did not have to protect 
Ms D against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. 
 
Were the payments fraudulent?
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options, CFD or forex scam 
is in fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted 
these products using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or 
misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or 
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of 
proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose 
information with the intention of making a gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or 
exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
In this case, Ive paid particular attention to the official organisations that publish 
warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. The International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is an international body that brings 
together the worlds securities regulators. Ive searched IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal. The 
FCA (the UK regulator) also has its own warning list in place to share alerts 
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent.   
Upon checking these, I understand there is no adverse information recorded about GMO 
Trading owned and operated by Royal Forex Ltd  either now, or when Ms D authorised her 
payments. What I have noted is that they were regulated by Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySEC) at the time, with passporting rights through the FCA, which 
meant they could offer services to UK customers.  
I have carefully considered Ms D submissions and the evidence she has submitted, which 
includes reviews and forum messages. However, customers can lose a lot of money and 
quickly with high-risk investments. And I dont think its that surprising that there might be 
some negative reviews, including accusations of it being a scam. These dont automatically 
prove it was a scam. My own searches have also found other forum reviews indicating the 
merchant was unreliable (as distinct from fraudulent), and others indicating they were a 
reliable broker. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the weight of evidence is tipped in Ms Ds favour. I give strong 
weight to the fact there are no regulator warnings about this merchant, particularly given the 
time that has passed since Ms Ds payments. And overall, Im not sufficiently persuaded that 
GMO Trading / Royal Forex Ltd was operating a scam at the time it offered services to Ms D. 
Triggers
Ms D has questioned whether Lloyds ought reasonably to have prevented the payments, 
given their nature. But as I have explained above, Lloyds was under no obligation to stop a 
bad bargain. Further, even if I accepted the payments were made to a scam (which, to be 
clear, Ill say again, I do not), I dont think I could reasonably say any of the payments ought 
to have particularly stood out to Lloyds such that it should have called Ms D before allowing 
them through. Whilst the £3,500 was larger than the others, it was, as Ive explained, sent to 
a regulated broker. And whilst the £700 in January 2019 was after Ms Ds initial contact with 
Lloyds in June 2018, Ms D hadnt by then followed through on anything further regarding the 
payments. So I wouldnt, regardless, be persuaded that it could reasonably be said that 
Lloyds ought to have been obliged to have done more than it did and ultimately have 
prevented the payments. I would re-iterate, again, however, that in any event Lloyds was 
under no obligation to stop a bad bargain.
Chargeback
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anythingfurther until Ms D told it shed been scammed. Then, because these were debit card 
payments, the only recourse for potential recovery of the payments would be via the 
chargeback scheme. 
It is not strictly necessary for me to address chargeback here. This is because, as Ive said 
above, Im not sufficiently satisfied GMO Trading / Royal Forex Ltd was operating a scam. 
This means I dont think I can reasonably say any chargeback Ms D made on the basis that 
it was a scam would likely have succeeded. However, given Ms Ds strength of feeling, and 
for completeness, I will explain why I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in this respect 
regardless. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decisions or scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
There are time limits involved. Lloyds has said that following Ms Ds call in June 2018 it 
requested specific information from Ms D, which would have enabled it to challenge the 
merchant on her behalf, if Ms D provided the necessary evidence and within the time limit. 
Ms D has said she didnt provide this evidence because she thought Lloyds had already 
initiated the chargeback on her behalf, and shes also sent us medical notes which she says 
explain why she didnt get back in touch with Lloyds in time. However, I can see that Ms D 
was in touch with Lloyds about other matters during the relevant time period. And I am 
satisfied from the evidence that its most likely that Lloyds didnt act unfairly in not raising a 
chargeback without this evidence being presented in time. 
I realise Ms D will be disappointed by this. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for her loss. Lloyds has paid Ms D 
£100 for service issues, and I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds to do anything 
further in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022. 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman