DRN-1999558
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the maturity value of her mortgage endowment, following a letter she 
received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Miss B took out a mortgage endowment in 1992 which was due to mature in September 
2017.
In February 2015, Miss B received a letter about her endowment. She understood this letter 
to mean that her endowment would hit its target amount at maturity and she would possibly 
receive additional funds. In 2017, Miss Bs endowment matured, but she was disappointed to 
discover it had a shortfall. She complained to Aviva and referred back to the letter she 
received in 2015.
Aviva responded and explained that this letter didnt mean Miss Bs policy was due to reach 
its target amount. It said that this was never guaranteed and that the letter was in relation to 
an uplift which was a bonus shed receive at maturity. It said that the overall fund she had 
invested in now had an additional surplus above the minimum required in it, so this amount 
was being shared with policyholders. It also referred back to the letters Miss B had received 
over the years saying there was a high risk her policy would have a shortfall.
Miss B then brought her complaint to our service, as she disagreed with the outcome. Aviva 
took more than eight weeks to respond to Miss Bs complaint, so she also complained about 
how her complaint had been handled too.
Our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint, but didnt uphold it. She said that while she 
could understand why Miss B understood the letter to mean what she did, this wasnt the 
case. And she acknowledged that Aviva took too long to respond to Miss B, but then she set 
out that from this date she was able to approach our service.
Miss B disagreed with the investigators findings. She said that the letter was very clear in 
saying her policy would reach its target amount. She said this communication superseded 
the previous letters she received  and she didnt receive any further letters between 2015 
and policy maturity  so she was entitled to rely on its content. She also said that Aviva had 
breached the rules by dealing with her complaint outside the eight-week timeframe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the letter Miss B received in 2015. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
her, but I cant agree it says what she understood it to mean.
The letter discusses the fund having additional surplus over the buffer required  it doesnt 
set out that Miss Bs specific policy has now reached its target value or is, as shes said, 
back on track. I accept it does say the fund is required to hold an amount above whats 
needed to make payouts to policyholders  but I dont think this is enough to say it 
guaranteed Miss Bs policy would reach/had reached its target amount (and that this was 
what would be paid out to her). This was referring to the fund as a whole being able to pay 
any money to investors, rather than being able to pay each person their target sum. I do 
understand how Miss B interpreted the letter in a different way  but that doesnt mean I can 
agree thats what the letter said. The letter is explaining that there is some additional money 
in the fund above the minimum required, so this will be shared between eligible policyholders 
and paid out as a bonus.
Ive also looked at how this letter compares to the other letters she received about her policy. 
The 2015 letter doesnt detail her policy in the same way as the other letters  for example 
by setting out the start and maturity dates; and target amount. Or by giving a range of 
percentages and the target amounts that could be achieved based on these. The last letter 
Ive seen that Miss B received about her specific policy (2006) showed that even if the funds 
she was invested in grew at 8% each year, shed still have a shortfall of over £7,000. So 
theres a distinct difference between the letters Aviva sent Miss Bs with her specific policy 
information, compared to the general letter she received in 2015. While I do appreciate 
Miss Bs interpretation of the 2015 letter, Im not able to agree with her that this is what it 
said. Or that Aviva should therefore honour her interpretation of the letter over the actual 
performance of her investment.
Miss B has made a comment to us about being told that she should believe the negative 
letters she was sent, but not the positive ones. However, the issue here is that her 
understanding of the good news letter was incorrect. Miss B did receive the additional 
bonus the 2015 letter set out  so it was to be believed. And her policy didnt meet the target 
sum, so the bad news letters were also to be believed. Its just that what she understood 
the positive letter to mean, and what Aviva meant by it, were not the same.
I can understand why Miss B was frustrated to not receive a response to her complaint 
within the timescales she should have. But I can see that Aviva apologised for this in its 
response to her. And while it did respond outside the timescale, it took just over nine weeks, 
so it wasnt a number of weeks or months outside the time allowed. Considering Miss B 
received an apology and did then come to our service, I dont consider Aviva needs to do 
anything more in relation to responding to her complaint late.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman