DRN-4380457
The complaint
Mr D complains he was given wrong advice about the effect of renting out his property on his 
mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Halifax said he could then increase 
his borrowing, so Mr D rented out the property. But after he did this, Halifax said no.
What happened
Mr D said he and his partner wanted to add her to the mortgage, and to increase their 
borrowing. They spoke to Halifax about this, but it said unfortunately, even on their combined 
incomes, they couldnt increase their borrowing by the amount they wanted, around £35,000 
to £40,000. Mr D said he then asked Halifax what would happen if he rented out his property 
and moved in with his partner, as that would increase their income. Mr D said the advisor 
was clear that this would then mean they were eligible to borrow what they wanted.
Mr D said he did then go ahead and rent his property out. But after that Halifax said he
couldnt borrow what he wanted after all. Mr D said hed complained, but Halifax wouldnt do
anything. So he wanted us to consider this first, then he was proposing to take legal action.
Mr D said not only did he not get the extra lending he wanted, he was now tied into a much
more expensive mortgage, because Halifax wouldnt let him take up a new fixed rate deal
while his property was rented out. And he said hed entered into a 12 month lease with his
tenants, so he couldnt just change his mind and ask them to move out.
Mr D said this had all been very stressful, and without access to this lending, hed had to
cancel planned arrangements for his wedding. So he wanted Halifax to pay compensation.
Halifax said it had listened again to the relevant call, where its advisor discussed renting out
this property with Mr D. And Halifax was confident that all that had happened was a very
generic discussion about a number of options Mr D had. Those included renting out the
property, but also possibly selling, or remortgaging elsewhere. Halifax said it hadnt advised
Mr D to rent out his property, and it wasnt responsible for the decision Mr D then made.
Halifax said when Mr D applied for consent to let, the form highlighted that he wouldnt be
able to fix a new rate on his mortgage while he was letting out the property. So Halifax said
Mr D agreed to that as part of his consent to let application. Halifax said Mr Ds old deal was
expiring around the time he rented out his property, so he could have delayed this
application until hed secured a new rate.
Our investigator thought the advisor who spoke to Mr D did give him the impression that he
would be able to secure the lending he wanted, if he rented out his property, and thus
increased his income. Our investigator thought it was likely Mr D would have let out the
property anyway, and moved in with his partner, but he said because Halifax had been
unclear, it ought to pay Mr D £100 in compensation.
Halifax said it would pay, as on review, it accepted that the mortgage advisor missed an
opportunity to confirm that if Mr D took consent to let, then he couldnt complete further
borrowing. But Mr D didnt agree, he didnt feel £100 reflected what had gone wrong.
Our investigator reconsidered, and said he thought £200 was fairer. He accepted that the
additional borrowing was never going to be available to Mr D after he rented out the
property, based on Halifaxs policy. So Halifax shouldve known this from the outset. But he
still thought it was always likely that Mr D would have moved in his partner, and would then
have rented out his property, rather than leave it empty.
Halifax agreed to pay the higher amount of compensation, but Mr D still didnt agree. He said
he wouldnt otherwise have moved in with his partner until they got married. And Mr D said
he was now on a variable rate mortgage, with high monthly payments. He said Halifax did
advise him that if he had rental income then he would be able to access £39,000 of extra
borrowing.
Mr D wanted to hear the relevant call, so our investigator sent that to him. He also asked for
this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final
decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I do think Mr D received unhelpful advice from Halifax. But I dont think this means 
Halifax is solely and entirely responsible for Mr D then renting out his property, and only 
finding out later that he couldnt access the extra borrowing he wanted, or fix a new 
mortgage rate.
Ill explain why I think that, and what I think this means for a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to the call Mr D and his partner had, which included the 
conversation about renting out his property. And I do think Halifax said Mr D would be 
able to borrow what he wanted, if he was going to let out his property at the monthly rent 
he anticipated.
Although Halifax has said that this advice was all in very general terms, I can hear that 
Mr D did ask a quite specific question about whether he could then borrow what hed 
initially envisaged. And the advisor said, yes, that would be no problem. We know that 
was wrong.
Halifax says Mr D is limited to borrowing 75% of the value of his property, if hes letting it 
out, and what Mr D wanted to borrow would have taken him over this percentage.
But I do also I think there are some important points of context that I need to take into
account here.
I do think that this was quite a general discussion, as Halifax has said. And as part of 
that, I have to take into account that what the advisor was actually suggesting to Mr D 
does seem to me to be a little different to what he actually did. The advisor did explain 
on this call that Mr D could reapply for his additional borrowing once he had consent to 
lease, and a letter confirming the anticipated rental income from an estate agent. I dont 
think the advisor was suggesting Mr D should go ahead with actually renting out the 
property, then reapply. And if Mr D had done that, instead of moving ahead with renting 
out the property, then I think the position would have been rather different, and its likely Mr D would have discovered the potential downsides to leasing out the property before 
he committed himself to a tenancy agreement.
So I think that its not wholly and entirely Halifaxs fault that Mr D went ahead with the 
rental of his property, before coming back to Halifax to make a new application. Thats 
because I dont think this is quite the basis on which the advisor understood he was 
discussing options with Mr D.
I also think that, because the advice given was otherwise quite general, and because 
this call then unfortunately dropped at a key point, Halifax didnt have to warn Mr D 
specifically on this call that he couldnt fix a new rate, while the property was being let 
out. I note that Halifax did warn Mr D about this before he applied for consent to let, and 
Halifaxs notes indicate that Mr D said he may just have missed this. So I dont think that 
its Halifaxs fault that Mr D is on a variable rate now.
Ive said I dont think Halifax is solely responsible for the fact that Mr D then went ahead, 
and rented out the property, before reapplying for his extra borrowing. But it does 
appear that Mr D couldnt ever have borrowed as much as he wanted, if he rented this 
property out. So I dont think this option should ever have been discussed with Mr D, 
without that important qualification being mentioned.
Mr D says the repercussions of this are serious -hes moved home and hes committed 
to a tenancy agreement, but he cant access all the money he wants. I dont think thats 
entirely Halifaxs fault, for the reasons Ive set out above. But I do think its mainly 
Halifaxs fault. So I think Halifax ought to pay more compensation than our investigator 
suggested, for its role in whats gone wrong here.
There are a number of things I need to weigh up in deciding how much compensation
Halifax should pay for the mistake I think its advisor made. 
Mr D is clearly very disappointed, and he says the decision to move in with his partner
wouldnt have been taken if hed realised he couldnt fund the wedding with borrowing, 
once hed rented out his property. Hes told us about the impact this has had and the 
difficulties it has caused, and Ive taken that into account here.
But I also have to consider that Mr D is a little bit better off, because hes rented out his
home, so no longer pays the full mortgage or the associated overheads of that property. 
(I do understand his financial situation would be better if hed fixed his mortgage before 
he let the property out. But I dont think that went wrong because of anything this advisor 
did, and thats what Im looking to provide compensation for here.)
On balance I think a payment of £500 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint, so thats what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said it agreed that it had missed an opportunity to tell Mr D about all the potential 
outcomes if he was renting out his property. So it would pay the compensation amount I 
suggested. Mr D said he would also like to accept.Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr D £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman