DRN-3440934
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Fleet Mortgages Ltd (Fleet) declined his mortgage application then 
recorded a marker against him on a fraud prevention database.
What happened
Mr B made a mortgage application with Fleet in 2018 which was declined. Fleet then added 
a fraud marker against Mr B with CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency, as they had concerns 
that some of the documents provided by Mr B contained inaccuracies. They also said the 
company accounts Mr B submitted were not the accounts already filed at Companies House 
and that they were significantly different. 
When Mr B discovered the marker he raised his concerns with Fleet explaining that he had 
used the same documents to apply for mortgages with other lenders, which he was offered, 
and that he had no reason to believe that the documents held inaccuracies at the time of the 
application. Mr B said he was the director of the company and there is also a second 
director, and its since transpired that the second director didnt file things properly with 
Companies House. 
Fleet said they had the right to apply the fraud marker based on the inaccuracies in the 
documents at the time of the mortgage application and confirmed they wouldnt be removing 
the marker. 
Mr B was unhappy with their response, so he brought the complaint to our service where it 
was looked at one of our investigators. Our investigator agreed with Fleet and didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said he is being penalised because of the marker 
and its having a negative impact on his life. He said there was no intention to commit fraud 
and because of this, there is no evidence of fraud. Mr B said the matter was never reported 
to the police and if he was given the opportunity to give his side, this wouldnt have gone any 
further. He said the marker was applied without his knowledge and he has done nothing 
wrong. Mr B said he accepts that one of the documents had inaccuracies, but he wasnt 
aware of that at the time the application was made. He said he requested all supporting 
documents from the same director and accepted on faith that they were correct. He said if he 
knew they were incorrect, he wouldnt have submitted them.
As Mr B disagreed with the investigator, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fleet declined Mr Bs mortgage application and they also recorded a marker about him with 
CIFAS, for application fraud. They had concerns that Mr Bs personal tax statement  SA302 
- had errors and anomalies and that company accounts submitted by Mr B were different to 
those that had been filed with Companies House. 
Lenders should only record information on fraud databases where they have reasonable 
grounds to do so. Ive looked at what Fleet have done in Mr Bs case to decide if they acted 
fairly. 
Mr B has explained that the second director of the company had been submitting incorrect 
financial information to Companies House and that Mr B wasnt aware of this at the time the 
application was made.
Mr B said that as soon as he became aware of what was going on, he took active steps to 
correct the information and he decided to liquidate the company whilst also removing the 
other director from the company too. Mr B has made it quite clear that he had no reason to 
believe the supplied documents held inaccuracies at the time.
Fleet also raised concerns about Mr Bs personal SA302 document that was supplied as it 
contained inaccuracies. They said there were typos on it, so they questioned the legitimacy 
of it. Again, Mr B said he had no reason to believe this document was inaccurate and he said 
he didnt falsify the document. 
Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments submitted by both parties; I can 
understand why Fleet had concerns about the information that Mr B submitted to them in 
connection with the mortgage application. Mr B has explained the issues surrounding the 
second director, but documents given to any lender are given in good faith that they are 
accurate. Mr B also signed a declaration when he made the application which advised him 
that any false or inaccurate information, or any suspect of identity fraud would be passed to 
the Fraud Prevention Agencies and recorded.     I understand that Mr B said he took 
reasonable steps to rectify the information held on Companies House but there were still 
ongoing concerns about the SA302. 
Having thought about everything carefully, I dont think that Fleet acted unfairly in recording 
the marker against Mr B. I know that Mr B will be disappointed with the outcome, but I wont 
be asking Fleet to remove the marker. 
I understand that Mr B is unhappy that Fleet didnt inform him that the fraud marker was 
applied against his name. Lenders do not have to notify borrowers if markers have been 
applied against them. There is no requirement for them to do so. I note that Mr B has said 
that he now cant get a mortgage elsewhere and this is impacting him, but lenders who use 
CIFAS shouldnt automatically decline an application just because of a marker; they should 
make their own enquiries  that is set out in CIFASs guidance to its members. I therefore 
cant hold Fleet responsible for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman