DRN-3778816
The complaint
Mrs H on behalf of the estate of Mr R, and as beneficiary of death benefits from his personal 
pension, says St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJPWM) was responsible for 
unsuitable advice, regulatory breaches, poor administration and inappropriate conduct in 
respect of her late fathers financial affairs. She says as well as the resulting financial 
detriment, these failings have caused her considerable distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Firstly, Id like to convey my condolences to Mrs H, who lost her father in June 2020. I 
recognise this has been a deeply upsetting and difficult time for her.
Mr and Mrs R had been clients of SJPWM for several years. It provided an ongoing service 
in relation to various financial products they held including pensions, bonds, unit trusts and 
stocks, shares and cash savings accounts.
In August 2019 Mrs R had filed for divorce. The adviser at SJPWM continued to provide both 
Mr and Mrs R with joint advice as they moved towards making arrangements for their 
respective futures. Very sadly Mr R passed away in June 2020.
Mrs H brought her complaint with the other Trustees of her fathers estate. And also as a 
beneficiary, for example with respect to Mr Rs Retirement Account (RA). There has been 
significant to and fro between the parties since she first raised a formal complaint against 
SJPWM in November 2020. It set out its final position in April 2021. During this period and 
since that time the scope of her complaint has widened.
In broad terms Mrs Hs case is that SJPWM was responsible for unsuitable advice, 
regulatory breaches, poor administration and inappropriate conduct in its dealings with Mr 
Rs financial affairs. Its helpful to refer to the summary of complaint points which she 
helpfully provided to this Service, as follows:
Matters related to events prior to Mr Rs passing
-Bespoke fund selection designed by SWPWM much higher risk than designated by 
Medium risk appetite previously agreed by Mr R.
-Medium risk profile established  but 40% of new investments recommended into 
high/medium-high risk funds.
-84% of wealth invested (over 80% threshold established by Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)).
-Blank signed encashment forms and blank paying in slips requested and obtained 
from Mr R in writing. 
-Lack of assessment of vulnerability status (breach of FCA rules / SJP handbook).
-Breach of GDPR (joint suitability letters issued, cited conflict of interest, fund 
summary was sent to wife shortly before death).
-Failure to recommend an Asset Preservation Trust (APT).
-Advised to make pension crystallisation instead of taking income from ISAs.
Matters related to events after Mr Rs passing
-Breach of GDPR (disclosed complaint to Mrs R).
-Delay in transferring proceeds of Mr Rs RA to Mrs H.
-Suggested removal of Mrs H as a Trustee of a joint insurance policy.
-SJPWM contact with Mrs H during ongoing complaint.
-A failure by Non-Executive Director of SJP & Head of Audit Committee to act on 
significant regulatory breaches.
SJPWM responded to Mrs Hs complaint points. It did uphold elements of her case, for 
example it accepted responsibility for a delay in the process of transferring funds from her 
fathers RA and the resulting investment opportunity loss. It offered her £10,000 to put the 
matter right.
SJPWM refuted many of Mrs Hs complaint points, for example it says establishing an APT 
was considered and discounted. It considered his portfolio had been invested in line with his 
assessed appetite for risk. And subsequent to details of Mr and Mrs Rs separation 
becoming knowledge, it considered it had treated Mr R appropriately as a client given what 
had been divulged to it and how he presented.
SJPWM did acknowledge the distress caused by certain things its adviser did. For example, 
when Mrs H was contacted by him concerning an insurance policy and seemed to offer her 
advice about it that she didnt think was in her interests. It also accepted the trouble and 
upset she experienced in bringing her complaint given the circumstances. It initially offered 
her £500 in recognition of this. Later it increased this offer to £1000.
An Investigator considered Mrs Hs case. Although she found that SJPWM had made some 
mistakes, she thought its proposals for putting matters right was reasonable. She also noted 
the bounds of what this Service could and couldnt address.
Mrs H said while she didnt agree with all the Investigators findings and conclusions, she 
was prepared to accept most of them. But amongst her reservations, her main concern was 
that SJPWM couldnt demonstrate how it had properly assessed Mr Rs attitude to risk with 
the consequent implications for how his portfolio had been invested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Although, like the Investigator, I think SJPWM got some things wrong, I think its 
proposals to put things right were reasonable. Ill explain why.The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by SJPWM for its customers. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like SJPWM. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this complaint.
Ill now turn to consider each of Mrs Hs broad areas of concern.
Fund selection, risk profile and invested wealth
In terms of providing suitable investment advice, the regulatory obligations on SJPWM are 
clear:
A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to understand 
the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving due 
consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific transaction to 
be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
-(a) meets his investment objectives;
-(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks 
consistent with his investment objectives; and
-(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his preferences 
regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
Mrs H said her fathers portfolio of investments worth around £1m had been invested too 
narrowly in bespoke non-managed funds, with a significant element of upper-medium 
holdings and where 84% of his investable wealth had been invested. She noted that despite 
significant changes in his circumstances such as his divorce and the loss of rental income 
from a commercial property he owned, there was no reassessment of his attitude to risk. 
Mrs H is generally concerned about a lack of documentation showing SJPWMs assessment 
of her fathers risk appetite, for example no questionnaires are on file. And theres no signed paperwork to say he acknowledged any such assessment. This was at variance to her own 
experience of working with partners at SJPWM.
With regard to its approach in assessing a clients attitude to risk, SJPWM told this Service:
SJP has never provided Partners with a questionnaire to be completed for risk assessment. 
I have looked overrecords and cannot see any evidence of a questionnaire and I have 
looked over all suitability letters and there is no reference to a questionnaire having been 
completed. There is however repeated reference to the SJP brochure entitled 
Understanding the balance between risk and reward
In my experience, the use of a questionnaire to assist with assessing a clients attitude to 
risk is reasonably widespread amongst financial advisers. Although this is only a tool it can 
be a helpful aid to discussion of contradictions and tensions within responses to tease out a 
final agreed assessment. But I also note that on occasion financial advisers place too much 
reliance on the output from a quantitative methodology, when what really matters is the 
qualitative conversation that must follow. 
I dont find the absence of a questionnaire for Mr R a failing by SJPWM in itself. What 
matters is that it needed to have met the regulatory obligations Ive set out. 
SJPWM has provided copies of various documents related to this case. For example, Ive 
seen a copy of the Confidential Financial Review (CFR) conducted by it with Mr and Mrs R in 
March 2020. This is important because of the timing, subsequent to it becoming aware of 
their separation and relatively shortly before Mr Rs sad passing. The document makes 
several references to their risk appetite being medium, and some brooder references to 
discussions about investment strategy.
Ive also reviewed a suitability report SJPWM produced for Mr and Mrs R in March 2020, 
shortly after the review of their finances had been undertaken. The report made 
recommendations about moving Mr Rs Individual Savings Account (ISA) from his existing 
provider to SJP.
The suitability report covered matters I wouldve expected it to, including Mr and Mrs Rs 
objectives, needs and circumstances. There was also a section about risk. It said:
We had a conversation about investment risk as part of our discussions. Some key factors 
we discussed were your objectives, your investment experience, the time horizon over which 
you are investing and your attitude to, and ability to withstand, investment losses.
We also discussed the range of example portfolios and funds offered by St. Jamess Place, 
and the importance of holding a diversified range of investments.
An emergency fund of £***** is held in accessible cash accounts. I believe that your 
emergency fund is sufficient for your needs.
Taking into account all these factors, we agreed you are both Medium Risk investors on our 
risk spectrum. You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least 
five years. You want the potential to achieve better long-term returns and are comfortable 
with most of your capital being invested in equities and property, some of it overseas. You 
realise there may be significant falls in the value of your investments.
The choice of Asia Pacific, Global Emerging Markets, Greater European Progressive, Japan 
and North American is not consistent with your attitude to risk for this plan as they are above 
your attitude to risk [29% upper-medium]. The choice of Diversified Bond, International 
Corporate Bond and UK Absolute Return is not consistent with your attitude to risk for this 
plan as they are below your attitude to risk [8% lower-medium].I recommended the Fund Selections above because this simply adds to your current 
portfolio and also adds eight new funds to your ISAs to increase diversity and spread. You 
will continue to be invested across a mix of management styles and asset classes, offering 
excellent geographical spread and opportunity for growth. You will be invested across 
different risk rated funds giving balance and helping to reduce overall risk.
I think this shows its more likely than not SJPWMs adviser did discuss Mr Rs attitude to risk 
with him at what was a very important moment. Both he and his wife received copies of the 
report and Ive not seen evidence showing either were unhappy with any elements of it.
Considering the fund selections, Ive reviewed information provided by SJPWM from 2010 
and across Mr Rs portfolio of investments. Theres a consistent pattern evidenced where the 
funds are predominantly placed in medium risk holdings, but where some funds are 
allocated to high, upper medium, lower medium and low risk vehicles. He held a diversity of 
products, funds and positions, which to some degree also served to moderate his exposure.
Overall, Ive concluded Mr R was more likely than not invested across his portfolio in line 
with his risk appetite.
Mrs H has raised the issue of how much of her fathers investable funds were invested in 
medium and long-term holdings. She noted an advice letter dated June 2019 in which 
SJPWMs adviser noted that at 84%, this figure was higher than the 80% typically thought 
appropriate. But that the figure was 76% when considering his and his wifes position 
together.
Mrs H raises a reasonable question here, particularly given the situation that emerged with 
Mr and Mrs Rs separation and the loss of the tenant for their commercial property from 
which they had derived a significant proportion of their income. But I think the information on 
file shows SJPWM was taking into account these changing circumstances and helping them 
prepare. For example, the CFR from spring 2020 notes the following under the section on 
retirement planning:
[Mr and Mrs R] have started divorce proceedings and wish to review their finances including 
their portfolios with Brewer Dolphin. They continue to attend meetings together whilst sorting 
out their financesThey are in the process of selling their residential home and also 
business premises
[Mr R wishes to withdraw £50,000 from his [retirement account] taking [tax-free cash] and 
then the remainder as a monthly income...This is for the next twelve months as once they 
have the proceeds from their property sales and have purchased their own houses they will 
both have a substantial sum left. They will then decide how they wish to take income from 
their overall portfolios and also the amount required
Theres no evidence Mr R was left without an income and a pathway to provision of such for 
his future needs, accepting that his circumstances at the time inevitably gave rise to some 
uncertainty.
The blank signed encashment forms and paying in slips obtained from Mr R
In February 2020 SJPWM wrote to Mr R following up on a recent meeting the adviser had 
with him and his wife. It was an empathetic letter acknowledging the difficult situation he and 
his wife faced and holding out the offer of being on hand as and when they needed support 
on their financial affairs.
The practical focus SJPWMs letter was the short-term shortfall in their income as a result of 
losing the tenant for their commercial property. One aspect of this was putting in place a process which was designed to give both Mr and Mrs R the ability, should they require it, to 
access cash. The letter said:
As promised, I have pleasure in enclosing two letters for you each to sign (please do not 
date and leave the amount blank) that I can hold on your file to ensure very smooth 
transactions and timely movement of wealth from your taxable portfolio to your bank should 
this be required.
As discussed at the meeting I will not take action until I speak to you and I would be grateful 
if you could return with the signed authorities a blank paying-in slip of the joint account into 
which funds would be required to be sent.
I think there is merit in the arguments Mrs H has raised about SJPWMs approach here. It 
knew her father and mother were getting a divorce, and while the advisers assessment was 
that matters were being dealt with amicably, there is always a risk that situations like this can 
change quickly. Like the Investigator, I think having pre-signed forms on file which also didnt 
stipulate the amounts to be drawn was a risk. And actually one that didnt appear to have 
been necessary given how accessible the adviser said he would be to them.
However, I think there are factors which mitigate the exposure Mr and Mrs R couldve been 
opening themselves up to. I note that any payment wouldve been made into their joint 
account. The encashment related to one of their joint investment products. This had a 
bounded value that was relatively modest in terms of their overall portfolios. And SJPWM 
made provision that no encashment action would be taken until they had been spoken to.
Ultimately the facility put in place for Mr and Mr R wasnt used. No harm has been 
evidenced. And Ive seen nothing to make me think there was any malign intent in the 
advisers action. I think the arrangement was made to makes things quick and easy for them 
had they needed to access cash. But I do think its a practice that in the circumstances 
SJPWM will want to reflect on.
Lack of assessment of vulnerability status
Mrs H has explained to this Service what effect the changes in her fathers circumstances 
were having on him. The ending of his long marriage, the sale of the marital home and the 
loss of a significant source of income from his commercial property were clearly very 
significant matters. She says that for around a year before her fathers passing, he contacted 
her daily letting her know how vulnerable he felt.
The FCA published guidance for firms in February 2021 about how they should deal with 
vulnerable consumers. This said they should understand the needs of their clients; ensure 
their staff have the right skills and capabilities to recognise and respond to these; respond to 
customer needs throughout product design, customer service provision and 
communications; monitor and assess if they are meeting the needs of customers with 
characteristics of vulnerability and make improvements where this was not happening.
The guidance noted the key drivers of vulnerability were state of health; life events (such as 
relationship breakdown, job loss etc); levels of resilience (ability to withstand emotional and 
financial shocks); and capability (levels of knowledge and confidence in dealing with financial 
matters). The FCA notes customers will be on a spectrum of vulnerability at any given time. 
So, there are many, often overlapping, factors that firms need to consider. 
While the guidance was issued after the events complained about in this case, it is derived 
from the fundamental Principles which govern how firms should operate and so simply 
codifies in more detail how I would expect a firm like SJPWM to operate in ensuring it treated 
customers fairly, acting in their best interests with due skill and care.SJPWMs adviser was aware of Mr Rs situation to the extent it had been disclosed to him. 
The letter to the couple in February 2020 clearly makes reference to what was happening in 
their lives and offered ongoing support with their financial affairs as they moved forward at a 
difficult time. The CFR recorded:
[Mr and Mrs R] are in the process of splitting up. Their split is amicable and they are in the 
process of splitting their assets and selling their propertiesThey continue to attend 
meetings together as they both wish to keep myself as an adviserat present the CFR has 
been left joint as the assets have not yet been divided and I am continuing to write to them 
jointly at their own request.
Ive read a report of a meeting that took place between Mr Rs financial adviser and those 
investigating Mrs Hs complaint at SJPWM. The purpose was to obtain the advisers version 
of events. He stated:
at the point of advice being given, the clients were still married and both parties were 
open and supportive of having joint meetings with him. [The adviser] stated that in his 
opinion, at the time of the advice, the separation was amicable and as both parties agreed, 
the suitability letters were still being provided in joint names. At the time of advice [he] did 
not consider the client to be of vulnerable client status, as the client was very financially 
aware, would come to meetings with spreadsheets demonstrating his understanding and 
financial fluency and always appeared to be forthright, dominant in conversations and 
determined. [He] had not seen a change in the demeanour of the client and gained 
agreement from both parties to proceed with the advice.
I can understand why Mrs H has raised the vulnerability of her father. But having considered 
SJPWMs actions from the available evidence, I think it was cognisant of his situation, to the 
extent it was made aware of what was happening, and it took account of how both he and 
his wife presented to it. Leaving aside the matter of the blank encashment forms the adviser 
arranged for (which Ive already covered), I cant see SJPWM caused Mr R or his wife harm 
in its dealings with them.
Breaches of GDPR
Mrs H has told us about breaches of the General Data Protection Regulations by SJPWM 
both before and after Mr Rs passing.
Theres no dispute that SJPWM issued joint Suitability Reports and letters to Mr and Mrs R 
following their decision to separate. As far as I can tell from the available evidence, this was 
done at their own request. Presumably this situation wouldve been temporary subject to 
their financial affairs being fully separated, and agreement about how and when a new 
approach would be appropriate would need to have been reached and carefully 
implemented.
In respect of a separate incident after Mrs Hs father had passed, SJPWM has 
acknowledged its financial adviser disclosed to Mrs R that Mrs H had raised a complaint 
about its handling of Mr Rs financial affairs. Like the Investigator, I dont think he shouldve 
done so.
I note SJPWM explained the adviser thought it necessary to make the disclosure because 
Mrs R was still a client. It has apologised for what happened and said it didnt cause any 
financial detriment to her. It has also given feedback to the adviser.In what are often complex situations, sometimes things can go wrong with communications. I 
dont think SJPWMs actions were perfect, it made mistakes. Ive taken this matter into 
account when thinking about the award made to Mrs H for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H knows the regulation of firms and consideration of data breaches and any sanctions 
deemed appropriate are matters for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I 
understand she has already given some consideration to approaching that body.
Failure to recommend an Asset Preservation Trust (APT)
APTs are designed to hold pension death benefits in such a way as to have funds accessible 
to beneficiaries while keeping them outside the pension holders estate for inheritance tax 
(IHT) purposes. Such arrangements usually require the appointment of two trustees who 
would be responsible for the distribution of funds after the death of the policy holder.
Some argue the benefits of an APT go beyond IHT mitigation. For example, giving more 
control over how money flows through the more complicated family structures that are quite 
normal today. With an APT, the distribution of benefits is controlled by chosen trustees, who 
will make decisions based on the policy holders instructions. 
Others suggest a drawback with such arrangements are their perceived irrevocability, the 
loss of control over assets that are put into trust and their costs. Its also of note that 
pensions are generally held in trust anyway, conferring advantages such as keeping the 
benefits outside of an estate.
One of Mrs Hs main complaint points is that SJPWM failed to establish an APT with her 
father. In responding to her, it said:
[the adviser] discussed this option with your father and he decided not to include this, and 
instead completed an Expression of Wishes, which confirmed the investment was to transfer 
to you. Had an APT been completed, this would have created an additional beneficiary and, 
assuming you were the designated beneficiary of that trust, discussions would have taken 
place to agree how the funds would be settled to you.
Ultimately, the SJP trustees decide how these payments are made and as the APT is a 
discretionary trust, we would still have been obliged to notify close family that the payment 
was to be paid to you.
SJPUK trustees were obliged to contact all potentially interested parties to understand if they 
wanted to make a claim on the death benefits (including trustees of any APT had there been 
one). As such, it says the presence of an APT wouldve made no difference to the outcome 
and it wouldve followed the same process and it wouldve taken the same amount of time.
I think its more likely than not the establishment of an APT was discussed with Mr R and 
that because the balance of advantage and disadvantage in his circumstances wasnt telling, 
it was decided he didnt require such. Even if Id decided an APT shouldve been set-up for 
Mrs Hs father, Ive not seen evidence to suggest shed have received the funds much more 
quickly. Further, I cant see shes suffered any financial detriment from the absence of an 
APT.
Advised to make pension crystallisation instead of taking income from ISAs
Mrs H says SJPWMs advice for her father to crystallise some of his pension provision in 
2020 caused him to suffer unnecessary additional income tax liability. She says accessing 
his ISA funds wouldnt have created such a liability. And as a pension is held outside of the 
estate, this approach wouldve reduced exposure to IHT.In his testimony to SJPWMs complaint investigation team, its adviser said:
[we] discussed the strategy for delivering ongoing income from the assets held by the 
client and looked across existing cash assets / investments together with the pension 
funding. The client highlighted that he wanted to retain investments and cash on deposit and 
did not want to use this to supplement his income needs as he felt that some of this capital 
may be needed to repurpose the commercial premisesin order to secure a potential tenant 
at some point in the future.
As there was no guarantee of a future tenant, and the need for replacement income was 
present, [the adviser] and the client agreed that the best course of action was to protect the 
capital and cash holdings and start to use the pension for what it was designed for  to 
generate an ongoing income in retirement. [The adviser] recalled that the client was petrified 
of not having liquidity and cash available and so with the need for regular ongoing income, 
and the client's views around holding cash / capital assets, the pension was the was clear 
solution.
To start the income from the pension fund [the adviser] and the client requested close to the 
minimum amount of tax-free cash available and worked with the client's accountant to trigger 
an income whilst not pushing the client's income into higher rate tax territory.
From the information available to me, I think its more likely than not Mr R wanted to 
crystallise an element of his pension rather than take funds from his other provisions. I say 
this because I think in the circumstances he found himself he wanted some flexibility in 
terms of income. Hindsight might indicate a different approach might have been more 
beneficial, but thats not something that should weigh in my consideration.
Delay in transferring proceeds of Mr Rs Retirement Account to Mrs H
I have nothing to add to the Investigators conclusions here. SJPWM has accepted 
responsibility for the delay in transferring the death benefits from Mr Rs pension to Mrs H. It 
has also proposed redress using a methodology consistent with our usual approach in 
situations like this.
Suggested removal of Mrs H as a Trustee of a joint insurance policy
Mrs H has explained that Mr and Mrs R had a joint insurance policy with Aviva whereby she 
was one of the Trustees. I understand this is a policy that wasnt set up through SJPWM and 
they werent involved in anyway. But Mrs H says her fathers financial adviser suggested she 
could remove her status as Trustee of the policy. Ive reviewed the relevant communications 
between the parties.
On 27 November 2020 SJPWMs adviser emailed Mrs H, including the following request:
Aviva have recently written to [Mrs R] concerning the policy which she had no knowledge 
about. She is therefore keen to understand what her commitment is, the purpose of the 
policy, the nature of the Trust and has asked for my advice.
For me to be able to advise her (and potentially you as Co Trustees) please can you each 
be kind enough to sign and return the attached Letter of Authority so that I then am able to 
ensure Aviva release information to me.
If you wish me to send you copies of the factual information provided by Aviva, then please 
could you confirm so
Mrs H didnt respond, and so on 18 December 2020 the adviser wrote again in the following 
terms:I would be grateful if you would be kind enough to reply to my earlier email of 27 November 
(below) seeking your authority to get information from Aviva. 
Alternatively, if you do not wish me to gain information on the policy I fully understand. 
However, I can only urge you to try to help [Mrs R] understand the detail of the policy and 
whether the continuing payment of the premiums is prudent.
Another option to consider is whether either of you would wish to retire as Trustees, thus 
enabling Liz to receive the requested information.
Mrs H says that Mrs R was already able to access information herself direct from Aviva 
because of her attachment to the policy. And she says her mother had already been in 
contact with that firm for information.
The Investigator understood why Mrs H felt the financial adviser was suggesting she go 
against Mr Rs wishes by removing herself as a Trustee on the insurance policy, but didnt 
think that was his intention. She thought as he hadnt received a response to his earlier 
email about the Letter of Authority, he was giving Mrs H options.
Ive not been provided with any documentation related to the Aviva policy at the centre of 
this particular complaint point. While Mrs R was SJPWMs client and its adviser was no 
doubt trying to help her, based on the testimony of both parties, the approach SJPWMs 
adviser took does seem clumsy.
It mayve been that even if Mrs R had access to certain information from Aviva, she mayve 
wanted more contextual information about the policy which wasnt available from the 
provider. But the advisers observation to Mrs H that she could remove herself as Trustee 
from the policy to facilitate the flow of information to Mrs R does seem to me to overstep the 
mark.
I understand Mrs H didnt remove herself as a Trustee of the insurance policy in question.
I can see this exchange with the adviser did cause Mrs H exasperation. And I also accept 
the point she made about unwelcome contact from the adviser, when he was the subject of a 
complaint shed already raised against him.
Again, Ill turn to the matter of the award for distress and inconvenience caused by SJPWM 
separately.
Complaint handling issues
Mrs H has raised concerns about various aspects of SJPWMs complaint handling. For 
example, she said one of its non-executive directors (NED) had messaged her to say he 
would personally oversee complaint resolution and investigation. But he failed to 
acknowledge any of the complaint made was a breach of regulation.
As the Investigator noted, this Service has seen emails where the NED said to Mrs H he had 
asked to be kept informed, presumably about progress with her complaint. While the NEDs 
communication mayve raised her expectations about his specific involvement in resolving 
her complaint, I dont take his message as such. Rather, I think its purpose was to assure 
her that things would be progressed and considered properly.
Its usual for large firms to have specialist personnel to review and deal with complaints. So, 
I dont find what happened to Mrs Hs case unusual. Indeed, theres a strong argument that 
generally speaking a NED shouldnt be involved in operational matters.Award for distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mrs Hs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. I should note, here Im thinking about her 
position as a beneficiary, not on behalf of the estate. Such awards arent intended to fine or 
punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, 
recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of SJPWMs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me this was the case here. 
But Ive also concluded St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plcs increased offer of 
£1000 for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs H when it got things wrong is 
reasonable given the failings Ive identified and in the circumstances of this case.
St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc has committed to honouring its offer for distress 
and inconvenience, together with the compensation of just over £10,000 it offered Mrs H for 
investment loss caused by the delay in giving her access to benefits from her late fathers 
pension.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined already, Im not upholding the complaint brought by Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman