DRN-2365298
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has given credit reference agencies 
incorrect information about his mortgage account. In particular, he thinks the date his 
mortgage was discharged is wrong.
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with Santander since 2007. In 2016 he was declared bankrupt and he 
was discharged from the bankruptcy in February 2017. Mr B feels the date of redemption 
reported by Santander to credit reference agencies (CRAs) should match the date of his 
bankruptcy instead of July 2017 which it had reported.
Santander responded to Mr Bs complaint and said secured debts will not form part of a 
bankruptcy unless the lender approves this. And Santander said it had never approved for 
his mortgage account to be included as part of the bankruptcy, which is the reason the 
information it reported to CRAs was correct. 
Mr B didnt agree so he brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. saying he felt Santander had reported 
information correctly in the circumstances. Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so this case 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. To begin with, Ive looked at whether the 
secured debt fell within the bankruptcy. Santander has said it didnt. Mr B has included a 
section of a court document that says the bankruptcy was discharged in February 2017. But 
the evidence provided doesnt specify what was included within the bankruptcy.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that the property secured by the Santander mortgage 
was included in the bankruptcy estate. So based on what I have, Im satisfied its more likely 
the mortgage wasnt included within the bankruptcy.
Santander has a duty to fairly and accurately report information about its customers to credit 
reference agencies. And in light of the above, Im satisfied thats what it has done here. It 
follows, Im not persuaded Santander needs to amend the information it reported to CRAs. 
I would also note, even if the mortgage formed part of the bankruptcy, Santander would still 
be entitled to report the account as fully satisfied or settled on the date it was written off.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman