DRN-3614837
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ulster Bank Ltd mis-sold him two Guaranteed Life Cover Plans.
What happened
Mr H visited his local Ulster Bank branch in 2011 and during the visit he was approached by 
a staff member and applied for two Guaranteed Life Cover Plans. Each plan was for £20 per 
month and a guaranteed amount of life cover should Mr H die after two years. The cover 
would be provided for the rest of Mr Hs life if the premiums were maintained.
Mr H believed the plans were savings plans for his two grandchildren. So, in 2021, Mr H 
contacted the provider of the policy to see how his plans were progressing. The provider told 
Mr H the plans only provided life cover and there was no value to them. Mr H complained to 
Ulster Bank that he thought the policies were savings plans, similar to a plan his father had 
taken out for him in the past, and that theyd been mis-sold by the staff member.
Ulster Bank didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and said the policies were sold on a non-advised 
basis. Ulster Bank said Mr H had been provided with an application pack to review before he 
decided on the level of cover he wanted, and that it had sent out the policy documents after 
the sale for Mr H to review. Ulster Bank said the documentation provided at the point of sale 
and post-sale made it clear the plans had no surrender value at any time and that there aim 
was to provide a guaranteed sum assured if Mr H should die after two years. 
Mr H didnt agree with Ulster bank and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that Ulster Bank had 
provided clear information about how the policies worked at the time of the sale and in the 
policy pack it sent shortly after the sale. The Investigator thought Ulster Bank hadnt done 
anything significantly wrong. Mr H didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as the 
Investigator Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will now explain why.
The sale of the plans took place in a branch of Ulster Bank in 2011. Mr H says he was 
approached by a staff member about the plans and he recalls saying that the plans were 
similar to a plan his father had taken out for him which provided a cash lump sum. Mr H says 
he decided to take out the plans, one for each of his grandchildren, and that the staff 
member didnt make it clear there was no savings element to the plans. Ulster Bank says 
that the plans were sold on a non-advised basis and the application pack and key features 
provided at the time made it clear the plans only provided life cover and there was no 
savings element.
Theres no record of the discussion that took place in the branch, so Ive taken into account 
what the documents Mr H signed said about the plans, and what the policy pack sent later 
told him about the plans. The key facts document from the time of the sale told Mr H that the 
plans were sold on a non-advised basis. So, Mr H had to decide if the plan met his needs 
and the level of premium he wanted to pay. I would expect Ulster Bank to provide Mr H with 
the information he needed to make an informed decision and that any documents would be 
clear about what the plans provided and not to be mis-leading. In this case I consider the 
application pack and application form clearly explained the level of life cover £20 per month 
would provide and that there was no savings element within the plans. 
Although Mr H says he didnt have much time to read through these documents at the time, 
Im satisfied they werent misleading. I consider it would have reasonably clear at the time to 
Mr H that he was choosing to pay £20 per month, what the life cover was and that there was 
no savings element to the plans.
I understand Mr H may have thought the plans provided a savings element, but Ive also 
seen a copy of the welcome pack Ulster Bank sent to him after the sale. This pack included 
the terms and conditions and the policy documents. I think its more likely than not Mr H 
received this pack as he confirmed hed put away the documents in good faith, but 
regardless of this the documents Ulster Bank provided made it clear the plans paid out on 
the death of Mr H only and that there was no savings value to them. I appreciate Mr H may 
not have checked the documents, but this doesnt mean Ulster bank did anything wrong.
Whilst I empathise with Mr H that the plans are not what he thought they were, Im satisfied 
the information Ulster Bank provided at the point of sale, and the documents it sent after the 
sale, made it reasonably clear the plans provided life cover only. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against Ulster Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman