DRN-2497750
The complaint
Mr N complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) increased his credit card limit several 
times - beyond what he could afford to repay. Mr N also complains that Aqua made matters 
worse by increasing his interest rate.
What happened
Mr N opened a credit card account with Aqua in 2014. They gave him a £300 credit limit to 
start with, but then increased it several times. Mr N says he began to have problems when 
his credit limit was increased to £1,500 in May 2015 and that he was soon only able to make 
the minimum repayment each month by applying for payday loans. Mr N says although his 
financial situation was getting worse, in March 2016 Aqua increased his credit limit to 
£2,500. Mr N says this led to a snowball effect of debt  then Aqua stepped up his interest 
rate.
Mr N complained that the way Aqua handled his account caused his financial situation to 
deteriorate, to such an extent that in 2018 he defaulted on his debts. Aqua didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong, so our investigator looked in to things for Mr N.
Our investigator thought Aqua hadnt acted irresponsibly by increasing Mr Ns credit limit. 
But he thought they should have realised Mr N was in financial difficulty due to missed 
payments from January 2018. The investigator thought Aqua should have contacted Mr N 
sooner to discuss how they could help him, so he recommended all interest and charges Mr 
N paid in May and June 2018 should be refunded. 
Aqua disagreed with our investigators view. They provided further evidence showing Mr N 
didnt miss any payments until April 2018, and their letters encouraged him to get in touch 
with them if he was struggling. 
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Credit limit increases
Mr N hasnt disputed Aquas first credit limit increase, so Ive focussed on the later increases 
in November 2015 and March 2016.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow 
when theyre deciding whether to increase someones credit limit  these are set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time of the increases in this case, CONC 
expected lenders to first check the customers creditworthiness. This meant considering their 
ability to repay the amount of credit within a reasonable time. It also involved looking at 
whether making those repayments might lead to other problems for the customer  such as 
causing financial difficulties. The extent of the check could be proportionate to the 
circumstances  taking into account factors such as the amount of the credit limit, the 
customers financial position and their credit history. 
As well as the CONC provisions, there are best practice guidelines issued by the credit card 
industry on increasing credit limits responsibly. These guidelines say creditworthiness 
checks should include information from credit reference agencies and at least one other 
source. This could be the customers income and financial commitments, how theyve 
handled their finances in the past, or internal credit scoring. 
Aqua say they have a low and grow strategy - starting with a low credit limit then reviewing 
the account at regular intervals with a view to increasing it. Aqua have provided evidence 
showing that their reviews were based on information from credit reference agencies, as well 
as looking at how Mr N had been managing his account. 
Im satisfied that the reviews Aqua carried out were a reasonable and proportionate way to 
check Mr Ns creditworthiness. I can see they received credit reference agency information 
about Mr N from the time he opened his account, so they followed the best practice 
guidelines about the types of information they should use. From March 2016 Aqua received 
extra information from a second credit reference agency, but there was no requirement for 
them to do this.
Up to the time of the second credit limit increase in March 2016, I didnt see anything in the 
credit reference agency information Aqua have provided that should have warned them 
about Mr Ns ability to repay more credit. The credit report Mr N supplied more recently 
shows a similar picture in 2016. It does show signs that Mr N got into financial difficulty, but 
this wasnt until later. For this reason, I cant say there was anything in the credit reference 
agency information at the time that should have given Aqua cause for concern about 
increasing his credit limit.
Mr Ns account history shows that, up to the credit limit increase in November 2015, he was 
managing his account well. I can see that his balance increased after this. A significant 
increase in outstanding balance could be a sign of financial difficulty, but this alone wouldnt 
give cause for concern. Mr Ns account history shows that he continued to make payments 
on time, and he was managing to pay significantly more than the minimum monthly payment. 
Aqua said that, in his application to open this account in 2014, Mr N declared that hed been 
employed for nearly two years with an annual income of £32,500. Looking at all the 
information Aqua had about Mr N, I didnt see anything to suggest he was borrowing more 
than he could afford to repay. And I didnt see any warning signs that he might be struggling 
to make repayments before the second credit limit increase. 
Ive seen evidence that Aqua wrote to Mr B on 26 October 2015 and 25 February 2016 to tell 
him about their decision to increase his credit limit. Those letters also explained what hed 
need to do if he didnt want this to happen. For these reasons, I dont think Aqua did 
anything wrong by deciding to increase Mr Ns credit limit.
Interest rate increases
I appreciate that Mr N didnt tell Aqua that his financial situation was deteriorating. But we 
expect lenders to look for signs that customers are struggling, even if they havent got in 
touch to ask for help. Our investigator thought there was evidence that Mr N was in financial 
difficulty early in 2018  he said Aqua had acknowledged this. The investigator thought they 
should have done more to help Mr N at that point. Having carefully reviewed the evidence 
Aqua have supplied, Ive come to a different conclusion - Ill explain why.In the first year of the agreement Mr N paid off quite a large amount of what he owed each 
month. But from July 2016 Mr N went over his credit limit. And although he was still making 
more than the minimum repayments, he wasnt managing to reduce the overall amount he 
owed. In September 2016 he took a payday loan. When Aqua acknowledged that there were 
signs Mr N was in financial difficulty, I think they were referring to the fact that this was being 
flagged up to them in the credit reference agency data between May 2016 and April 2017.
Aqua have said that, if Mr N had told them he was in financial difficulty, theyd have been in 
a position to try to assist him. But they didnt try to contact Mr N. And the following month, in 
May 2017, Aqua decided to increase Mr Ns interest rate.
Aqua have provided a copy of their letter to Mr N dated 26 May 2017, giving notice that his 
annual percentage rate (APR) would increase from 29.7% to 33.9% on 1 August. A similar 
letter dated 26 December 2017 gives Mr N notice of an increase to 41.9% on 5 March. So I 
can see Aqua followed good practice guidelines on credit card repricing notification, which 
say lenders should give at least 60 days notice of this type of decision to increase interest 
rates. This gives the customer the option to close the account and pay back the money at 
the current interest rate.
But having the right to opt out of an interest rate increase doesnt automatically mean Mr N 
was treated fairly. Aquas letters to Mr N say they considered a number of factors when 
setting his individual interest rate, which would have included how he managed his account 
and possibly credit reference agency information about other credit agreements he had. 
Aqua havent told us what caused them to increase Mr Ns rate, so Im inclined to think this 
was due to his worsening financial situation. 
I appreciate that Aqua need to consider the risk of customers failing to repay what they owe 
 and that their interest rates, fees and charges reflect that. But the FCA sets principles that 
businesses such as Aqua must follow, which include a requirement to treat customers fairly. 
Aqua had information to show that Mr N had been in financial difficulty in the 12 months 
leading up to May 2017. Instead of simply increasing his interest rate, I think Aqua should 
have contacted Mr N to ask him about his financial situation, and to discuss what they could 
do to help him. 
At the beginning of 2018, Mr Ns payments were only just covering the interest, fees and 
charges applied to the account. The second interest rate increase took effect in March 2018 
 Mr N didnt manage to make any further payments after this. I think Aqua should have 
realised Mr N was already in financial difficulty, and that interest rate increases would make 
things worse for him. For these reasons, I think Aqua didnt treat Mr N fairly when it decided 
to increase his interest rate. 
Increasing Mr Ns interest rate increased the amount of money he owed. I cant direct Aqua 
to reduce Mr Ns balance, because his debt was sold to another business in October 2018. 
But unfairly increasing Mr Ns interest rate meant he owed more money and caused him a 
considerable amount of trouble and upset given his mounting debts, so I think its fair that 
Aqua should compensate him for that.
I said that, subject to any further comments I received, I intended to uphold the complaint 
and order Aqua to pay Mr N £450 compensation to reflect the increased cost and trouble 
and upset hed been caused. 
Responses to my provisional decisionMr N didnt send any further comments. Aqua did respond, saying they didnt agree that 
theyd treated Mr N unfairly. Their main points were:
Aqua had followed the rules and guidelines for credit card interest rate variations. 
Theyd contacted Mr N prior to the rate increase by sending him a letter, giving him 
the option to stop using the account and pay the balance at the current rate. 
Mr N chose not to stop using the account, and his statements indicate he wasnt 
using his card for only for necessities. Aqua feel that Mr N should be accountable for 
his continued spending despite his financial difficulties.
There are no rules requiring Aqua to make contact by telephone, and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect a business of Aquas size to contact each individual customer 
prior to an interest rate change because their account management behaviour has 
changed.
The contact telephone number Aqua have on file for Mr N is not the same as the one 
shown in his recent complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCA principles include a requirement for financial businesses to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. This principle applies to Aquas decisions to 
increase Mr Ns interest rates. For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, in 
Mr Ns individual circumstances, I find those decisions to have been unfair. 
I can see that, having made the decisions to increase Mr Ns interest rate, Aqua followed 
industry best practice guidelines on credit card repricing in the way they implemented those 
changes. They gave Mr N notice of the intended interest rate increases and allowed him the 
option to stop using the account and pay the balance at the current rate. However, this 
doesnt automatically mean hes been treated fairly. 
Ive again reviewed the evidence about Mr Ns use of his credit card during the 12-month 
period from May 2017. Whilst I agree that Mr N chose not to stop using his account, I find 
that his monthly expenditure was generally quite low. In 10 out of 12 of those months, the 
interest Aqua applied to Mr Ns account exceeded the value of new purchases. I saw no 
evidence that his spending was inappropriate for someone in a deteriorating financial 
situation. Although I agree one or two subscriptions may not be considered necessities, on 
balance Im satisfied that those may have been contractual obligations of 12 or even 18 
months duration.
I'm not suggesting that Aqua should contact every customer by telephone before increasing 
their interest rate. But where  as in Mr Ns case  theres evidence to suggest the customer 
is in financial difficulty, the relevant guidance indicates a lender should take proactive steps 
to look in to matters and provide assistance. Im not persuaded that Aqua did enough in this 
respect, and in my view what Aqua did do was likely to make things worse for Mr N, given 
his deteriorating financial situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to pay Mr N £450 
compensation to reflect the increased cost and the trouble and upset hes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman