DRN-1774176
The complaint
P is a limited company. It complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to set up a ring-fenced 
client account for the company, despite giving assurances that it had done so.
What happened
In 2008, P opened an account with HSBC to hold money collected from the companys 
clients. In 2013, the name of this account was changed, at Ps request, to include the words 
Client Account.
Early in 2019, P asked the bank for a letter confirming that the account was a ring-fenced 
client account. The company needed the letter for its application for membership of an 
industry accreditation scheme. At first the bank said it would write the letter, but later said it 
couldn't, because the account was in fact a normal business account. HSBC said it wasn't 
able to convert the business account to a ring-fenced client account.
P complained to HSBC, saying the company couldn't re-join any industry membership 
schemes until it could prove it had a ring-fenced client account. P said the bank had on 
previous occasions provided a letter confirming that it had such an account. 
HSBC said no records remained from 2008 which would allow the bank to work out why the 
account wasnt correctly designated a client account at the time. And it had no record of past 
letters sent to P stating that the account was a designated client deposit account. Because 
of a possible past error, HSBC offered to convert the existing account to a client account. 
But the bank said this could happen only after P became a full member of a required 
regulatory body. The bank also offered £200 compensation for inconvenience.
Unhappy with the banks response, P referred its complaint to us. Its director said the 
problem had cost the company a lot more. To get the accreditation, P had moved to another 
bank and had to write to over 850 clients with the new account details. It also had to go 
through the scheme audit process again, paying the £300 fee a second time.
Our investigator thought it had been reasonable for P to assume that its account was a 
properly established client account. He didn't think HSBCs offer of £200 adequately covered 
the inconvenience caused to P. He recommended that the bank should pay £400 for 
inconvenience and additionally pay the cost of the second audit.
P didn't think the compensation recommended by the investigator was adequate to cover its 
costs in changing banks, given the amount of work involved and the postage. 
The bank commented that if P had remained with HSBC and sought the relevant regulated 
membership, the existing account would have been converted to a client account with the 
same bank details. HSBC said it was solely Ps decision to move to another bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
From the available evidence, its not possible to determine how things went wrong in the set-
up of the account or in its early years. But in 2013, the bank records show that P asked for 
the account name to be changed to include Client Account and the bank agreed to do this. 
From the banks notes of the time, I cant tell whether the bank did so in the belief that the 
account really was (or could become) a designated client account, or in the full knowledge it 
was only a business account and would remain so. HSBCs own reading of the evidence is 
that it was the latter. Either way, the banks action was an error, in my view, because it would 
have given P  and, importantly, its clients  reason to continue believing, wrongly, that the 
account was a ring-fenced client account. I dont think it can be reasonable to change the 
name on an account to the name of a different banking product for which the customer isn't 
eligible. 
Things came to a head in 2019 when HSBC made it clear to P that, despite the account 
name, it wasn't a ring-fenced client account and couldn't be converted into one. When P 
complained, I think the bank was right to offer to make an exception and convert it to a client 
account. But it set a condition that P couldn't comply with. HSBC required P to be a member 
of a regulatory scheme before the account could be set up, but P couldnt join the scheme 
without the account. Ps director said he would have preferred to stay with HSBC but he 
couldn't: I would have loved for this to happen however neither HSBC or [the scheme] 
would move on their position, this left me no choice but to move banks as I was in a catch 22 
situation. 
In my view, Ps decision to move to another bank was reasonable. Im satisfied that HSBCs 
errors were largely responsible for the difficult circumstances in which the company found 
itself.
Putting things right
Moving to another bank meant that P needed another audit for the accreditation scheme. I 
therefore agree that HSBC should cover the cost of the second audit.
Ps director says the extra work and postage for contacting its clients about the change of 
account cost more than the £400 compensation proposed by the investigator. But Im 
mindful that P would have needed to communicate with a proportion of its clients anyway in 
the normal run of its business, so it wouldn't be fair to require the bank to cover all the 
communication and administration costs. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think 
£400 is fair compensation for the inconvenience of changing banks and communicating with 
clients.
For the reasons Ive given above, I think the bank should pay £400 compensation for 
inconvenience plus £300 to cover the second audit.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £700 to P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman