The complaint
Mrs F says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her 
irresponsibly. Mrs F says Satsuma didn't properly check her finances or her personal 
situation. Mrs F has also told us about a mental health condition. I wont go into detail about 
Mrs Fs personal circumstances in order to preserve her privacy  but I have taken into 
account what shes told us.
What happened
Mrs F had one loan with Satsuma in July 2018. The loan was for £500 and was repayable at 
£83 per month for 12 months. An adjudicator considered Mrs F's complaint but didn't think it 
should be upheld. Mrs F didn't accept this. She said she didn't have the capacity to make a 
decision to enter into the loan agreement and that it was up to businesses to check this. Mrs 
F's complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mrs F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think the checks Satsuma carried out before lending to Mrs F were proportionate. Mrs F 
declared a monthly income of £1,600 and her declared expenditure totalled £402 per month. 
This comprised £252 for housing, £50 for financial commitments and £100 for 'other' 
expenditure. Satsuma made some significant adjustments to these expenditure figures by 
applying what it calls 'safeguards'. After adjustments, it treated Mrs F's expenditure as if it 
were £1,038.11 per month. So it used a figure of £561.89 as Mrs F's disposable income and 
decided the loan, which had repayments of £83 per month, was affordable. I think that was a 
reasonable decision.
Although Mrs F said she had other payday loans, this isn't what Satsuma's credit checks 
showed. The credit check Satsuma carried out said Mrs F had no payday loans in the three 
months before making her application and there was no other adverse data. Of course, 
different credit searches can show different things. But I think the checks carried out by 
Satsuma were reasonable and proportionate in Mrs Fs circumstances.
DRN-1565794In response to the adjudication, Mrs F said she didn't have the capacity to enter into the loan 
agreement because of her mental health difficulties. I've not seen that Mrs F raised this point 
in her initial complaint - although I accept she did mention her mental health. I have however 
seen evidence, from Mrs F's GP, about her health and have considered this.
I don't have the power to declare the loan agreement is legally unenforceable, but I have 
considered what is fair and reasonable, as well as the relevant law. While I'm sorry to hear of 
Mrs F's difficulties, the evidence I've seen doesn't suggest Mrs F didn't have the capacity to 
understand or enter into this loan agreement. So I can't fairly say Satsuma should take any 
action in respect of the loan agreement.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs F but my decision is that her complaint should not 
be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Provident Personal 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman