DRN-3790367
The complaint
Mr D complains about a marker that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) 
have recorded against him with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS. Hed like the marker 
removed.
What happened
Mr D held a current account with Tesco Bank. In June 2019 he reported that the requested 
cash from an ATM didnt dispense. Tesco investigated and issued him a refund. Over the 
next several days he reported another three disputes at the same ATM. However, Tesco 
Bank declined to refund these. They took back the temporary credits applied to the account, 
which left the account in an unarranged overdraft.
Mr D complained, but Tesco Bank didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They issued a 
response in July 2019, saying they had received notification that in these cases the funds 
were dispensed. They explained if they found evidence of any invalid claims, they could take 
back any temporary credits. They also explained that they couldnt close the account until 
the overdrawn balance was repaid. The response offered Mr D referral rights to our service, 
but he didnt contact us at the time.
In 2021 Mr D discovered that Tesco Bank had recorded a marker with the fraud prevention 
agency CIFAS for misuse of facility. He complained to Tesco about this, but they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong. In their response they explained they had enough 
information to meet the standard of proof for loading a CIFAS marker. But they said the 
account had remained open, when they should have closed it in 2019. The offered to pay Mr 
D £50 for the inconvenience.
Unhappy with this Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Tesco Bank objected to us 
looking at the disputed ATM transactions, as he hadnt referred this complaint to us within 
the six month time limit from the final response in 2019. They said this meant they wouldnt 
provide information on the ATM transactions. 
Because this information wasnt forthcoming, our investigator thought the complaint should 
succeed. She explained that a CIFAS marker should only be loaded if there was sufficient 
evidence to show that an identifiable criminal offence had occurred, and this had to go 
beyond mere suspicion. She said without being able to scrutinise the evidence she couldnt 
state with any certainty that the CIFAS was loaded correctly. She asked for the CIFAS 
marker to be removed and for Tesco Bank to pay Mr D £250 compensation.
Mr D agreed, but Tesco Bank disagreed. As no agreement could be reached the case has 
been passed to me to decide. After reminding them of the ombudsman services ability to 
request information relevant to the outcome of complaint were investigating Tesco Bank 
provided information about the disputed ATM withdrawals. I also requested further 
information from Mr D about why he made the withdrawals and used the account, which he 
provided.
Having done so I wasnt minded that Tesco Bank should remove the marker. I issued a 
provisional decision which said:
Its been accepted by both parties that Mr D didnt refer his complaint about the decision to 
hold him liable for the disputed ATM withdrawals within the six months given in the rules our 
service operates. The last response was sent on 19 July 2019, and so he would have 
needed to refer this to us before 19 January 2020. But this first contact our service had with 
him was in March 2021, which is well outside the timeframe.
As this was referred out of time, and I dont see there are any exceptional circumstances that 
would have prevented Mr D from referring this complaint to us, Im satisfied our service 
doesnt have the power to consider that complaint. Therefore, this decision doesnt cover 
Tesco Bank holding Mr D liable for the transactions.
However, the complaint about the CIFAS marker was referred to our service in time. And I 
recognise that at the heart of this complaint is the same basic facts about whether the ATM 
disputes Mr D reported were genuine or not. Part of my consideration then will have to be 
the evidence Tesco Bank relied upon when deciding to record the marker with CIFAS.
Both parties seem to be aware of the principles CIFAS set out for reporting a marker with 
them, and the investigator has already provided a detailed outline, so I dont see it necessary 
to repeat them in full here. But in summary there needs to be clear and rigorous evidence 
that fraud or a financial crime either took place or was attempted  and this needs to go 
beyond mere suspicion. The evidence that drew them to this conclusion should also be 
available for the full period the CIFAS marker is recorded.
In the context of Mr Ds complaint, Tesco Bank have applied the marker as they believe he 
knowingly made false claims of not receiving funds from the ATM. 
Tesco Bank havent supplied technical evidence for each of the ATM withdrawals  only one 
partial entry has been provided. Having considered it I find it inconclusive in itself. It does 
however show that the transactions directly before and after Mr Ds were completed 
successfully with no errors.
However, looking at the broader circumstances of what happened, I think Tesco Bank have 
met the standard of proof required by CIFAS.
Tesco Bank have been able to show that the owner of the ATM  a third party bank  
redebited the temporary credits they paid, which suggests they didnt find any problems or 
faults with the ATM at the time.
There doesnt seem to be a clear explanation of why Mr D used the same ATM four times in 
such a short space of time. While its not unheard of for ATMs to fail to dispense cash, its 
still not common. For it to happen four times to the same individual seems to be incredibly 
unlikely.
When asked why he kept using the same ATM Mr D has commented that he wanted to use 
one that was well lit and had a fraud prevention card cover. But this doesnt explain why hed 
choose to use a machine that he says had failed to dispense cash to him on a number of 
occasions, particularly as it seems there were other available machines nearby.
The money Mr D was attempting to withdraw was transferred in shortly before each 
transaction from a third-party bank, which Mr D has confirmed was his. And when he 
received the temporary refunds, they were transferred out to this other bank account. There are few other transactions on the Tesco Bank account. I find this to be a very unusual way of 
using the account.
When we asked Mr B about this, he said there was no money kept in the account so it was 
not a risk of being defrauded or someone scamming him, and he was reluctant to withdraw 
from his main bank because of this risk. But Im not persuaded this is a reasonable 
explanation, as I dont see how transferring money between bank accounts before carrying 
out withdrawals reduces the risk of fraud or being scammed.
Mr D hasnt explained why the cash was needed, saying that he cannot remember because 
of the length of time since the attempted withdrawals. But the amount being withdrawn was 
fairly large, so it would strike me there would be a specific purpose that Mr D may 
remember.
Overall, Im not persuaded that when Mr D reported the ATM disputes to Tesco Bank these 
were genuine disputes. The evidence held by Tesco Bank leads me to the conclusion that 
they were fraudulent, and I dont see any other reasonable explanation. Im satisfied this 
evidence is clear and rigorous, and as such the standard of proof for CIFAS has been met. 
However, I can see that Tesco Bank should have closed Mr Ds account earlier than they did 
 this is an error on their part. But I cant see this would lead directly to any inconvenience to 
Mr D. They have already offered him £50 for this, which I consider to be more than 
reasonable. Because of this, Im not minded the bank should do anything further.
Tesco Bank accepted the provisional decision, but Mr D disagreed. He said that the way in 
which the marker was loaded was unjust and unreasonable, and the marker had been 
applied unlawfully as the standard of proof has not been met. He said CCTV footage should 
be supplied by Tesco.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On review Im still satisfied with the reasoning and outcomes explained in the provisional 
decision.
Neither party has objected to my reasoning around our jurisdiction, so this decision is only 
looking at Tesco Banks decision to load a CIFAS marker against Mr D  although the 
disputed ATM withdrawals are relevant background information for me to consider.
Im satisfied that there it would be incredibly unlikely for Mr D to have the same ATM fail to 
dispense cash four times in such a short space of time. And the evidence of the ATM owner 
recalling the funds tends to suggest there were no reported faults or problems with that 
particular machine at the time. Im not satisfied this is the explanation of what happened 
here. 
Im also not persuaded by his explanation of why the money was being transferred in from a 
third party bank account, and then transferred back out when temporary credits were 
provided. This doesnt seem like regular account behaviour, and I dont see how this would 
reduce or mitigate a risk from fraud. Ive seen nothing further on this point since the 
provisional decision.I understand Mr D feels very strongly that CCTV evidence should be considered. However, 
Tesco Bank have confirmed this isnt something they reviewed at the time, so wouldnt have 
been part of their decision to load the CIFAS marker.
Because of the length of time thats passed since the withdrawals, and the fact that the ATM 
was owned by a third party bank, its not unreasonable Tesco Bank cant supply CCTV now. 
Ive considered whether Tesco Bank should have got the CCTV evidence at the time. I 
accept this may have been helpful, but I cant for certain say that the ATM was covered by 
CCTV that would have been definitive in whether the cash was dispensed. So, while I 
acknowledge how important Mr D feels it is, I dont feel this is essential evidence to reach a 
reasonable conclusion. Tesco relied upon the other evidence available, which they are 
entitled to do.
I have to base my decision on the evidence available to me. And having done so Im 
satisfied that the reasonable explanation is that the ATM dispensed cash correctly. And that 
when Mr D reported these to Tesco Bank, he would have been aware of this. 
Im satisfied that the evidence that supports this is clear and rigorous. I consider this to reach 
the standard required by CIFAS to record a marker, and Tesco Bank havent been 
unreasonable or unfair in doing so.
Tesco Bank have accepted they made an error in not closing Mr Ds account and made the 
offer of £50 for this. Ive seen nothing to suggest this caused any inconvenience to Mr D. So, 
I dont see that Tesco Bank need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman