DRN-3058011
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned down his business 
interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr K held a business protection insurance policy with Aviva. He claimed on his policy after 
his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the governments response to the pandemic. 
Aviva turned down Mr Ks claim. It said the core business interruption cover and the 
extension for denial of access both required the losses to be as a result of damage to 
property and Covid-19 hadnt damaged property. It added that while the policy provided 
cover for a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. He said Aviva 
had turned down the claim because it said the extension for prevention of access excluded 
cover for losses caused by action taken in preventing, supressing or controlling the spread of 
diseases. Mr K said his policy didnt contain this exclusion so Aviva shouldnt be able to rely 
on it. Mr K also said that Aviva hadnt provided him with a copy of the policy wording, so he 
thought he was covered for any prevention of access which is what it set out in the schedule. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Mr Ks claim and he thought Avivas 
reference to an exclusion wasnt specifically in relation to Mr Ks policy. 
Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ks business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Ks claim.
Our investigator has explained why the core business interruption section of the policy and 
the extension for disease dont provide cover. This doesnt seem to be in dispute, so I will 
focus my decision on the extension for prevention of access. However, for completeness, I 
also dont think the core business section of the policy or the extension for specified 
diseases provide cover as I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr Ks losses were as a 
result of damage to property and Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases listed as being covered 
by the policy. 
The extension for prevention of access covers loss as a result of:
Damage by any cause included under the Property Damage section to property 
within one mile of the boundary of Your Premises which physically prevents or 
restricts access to, or use of, Your Premises.
The policy defines damage as, Physical loss, destruction or damage.
For this to provide cover, Mr Ks losses would need to be as a result of physical loss, 
destruction or damage to property within one mile of his premises which physically 
prevented or restricted access to his premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to property within one mile of Mr Ks premises which physically 
prevented or restricted access. So, this doesnt provide cover for Mr Ks claim. 
The reference to Prevention of Access on Mr Ks policy schedule corresponds with this this 
extension. Mr Ks policy doesnt contain a separate non-damage denial of access extension 
with an exclusion for diseases and I havent seen anything to indicate that Aviva told Mr K 
that it did. Aviva sent Mr K a letter about the Financial Conduct Authority Business 
Interruption Insurance test case which said: 
If your policy includes a non-damage coverage clause for prevention of access 
to your premises, that part of your policy will also not be affected by the Test 
Case. This is because the clause contains an express exclusion in respect of 
any action taken in controlling, preventing or suppressing the spread of any 
disease", and this kind of exclusion clause was not considered in the Test Case.
I can see that this letter provided information about a range of clauses that Aviva didnt 
think were impacted by the test case and not just those specific to Mr Ks policy. I 
understand Mr K interpreted this to mean Aviva was relying on this clause in his 
particular case, but I dont hold Aviva at fault for that.
Ive considered Mr Ks point that he didnt receive the full policy wording and so didnt 
know the full wording of the policy. However, I think the policy schedule is clear that it 
needs to be read alongside the policy wording and I can see that the policy schedule 
also contains a link to the policy document. In any event, I understand that the policy 
was sold via a broker, so if Mr K is unhappy about the documents that were provided at 
the time of sale he would need to complain about that separately. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I cant fairly require Aviva to pay Mr Ks claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman