DRN-3081222
The complaint
Miss M complains about how U K Insurance Limited has investigated and offered to settle a 
claim under a Property Owners insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M submitted a claim for damage to an internal wall in December 2019 (via an insurance 
broker). UKI instructed an agent to attend Miss Ms property and he concluded that there 
was damage to a wall, which in his opinion was likely to be the result of a bike rack mounted 
(and its usage) on the wall. UKI offered to deal with the damage claim as accidental 
damage.
Miss M disagreed with UKI and her view is that the damage to her internal wall is a 
consequence of building works carried out within a connecting neighbouring property. Miss 
M believes UKI should access the neighbours property to see whether theres any damage 
to the party wall such that may be responsible for the damage in her property. 
Miss M has submitted various bits of information including a letter before action sent to her 
neighbour, photographs of inside her own property together with general commentary on the 
policy and UKIs handling.
Our investigator explained why she didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. She 
said, in summary;
- The policy didnt cover all eventualities, only those perils listed as insured.
- While Miss M reports increased noise form the adjoining property and believes her 
neighbour damaged the party wall, there was no evidence to support this. 
- UKI made an offer to cover the damage so she wouldnt expect UKI to do more, such 
as instructing a surveyor to inspect the wall.
- She thought UKIs offer to consider any reports Miss M obtained (at her own cost) fair 
in the circumstances.
- And she wouldnt expect UKI to get involved in a neighbour noise matter.
Miss M disagreed with the investigator and in summary said;
- The policy doesnt specify neighbour disputes are excluded but, in any case, the 
neighbours work caused damage and should be covered.
- UKI has not inspected the wall in the neighbours property.
- Its illogical that the bike rack is the cause given its been in situ for many years.
- The noise is a result of whatever damage the neighbour has done to the wall, which 
UKI hasnt inspected.
- UKI should appoint a surveyor to inspect the wall.
The complaint has been passed for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for the relationship between Miss M and UKI is the insurance contract, the 
terms of which are set out in a policy document. The policy specifies the events for which 
cover is available and relevant to this complaint is damage to the building. The policy gives 
further clarification of the contingencies or specified events and theres cover for accidental 
damage. 
The physical damage within Miss Ms property is not in dispute, indeed UKI has offered to 
settle that as part of the claim decision. What is in dispute is the cause of the damage. 
The available evidence is what I balance in reaching my decision. I have Miss M who 
believes the party wall must be damaged from the neighbours side and thats whats caused 
the physical damage in her property and the increased level of noise shes apparently 
experiencing. But I observe that shes not seen the inside of her neighbours property and 
neither has the neighbour admitted to there being any damage. The neighbour did say some 
kitchen units had been fitted but that doesnt in my view, amount to persuasive evidence of 
damage to the party wall. And thats the height of Miss Ms position.
UKI on the other hand has had a senior property insurance advisor inspect Miss Ms 
property, and in his view the damage is a consequence of the bike rack thats been mounted 
on the wall together with its usage. Because of this Im satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that UKI has diagnosed the cause and made a fair offer on resolving the 
damage. Additionally, UKI has said that it would consider any report Miss M might obtain 
and again I think thats fair.
Based on whats been submitted in this complaint Im not persuaded that UKI should be 
doing anything further. It has a duty to handle a claim promptly and fairly and Im satisfied it 
has done that. And it has made a reasonable offer to review any reports Miss M might 
provide.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman