DRN-4417717
The complaint
Ms R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined her claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 14 February 2023, Ms R planned a UK train trip with 
intended departure and return dates of 21 February 2023 and 22 February 2023 
respectively. She bought a train ticket for a total amount of £61.44, which included £2 for 
a single trip, train ticket cancellation insurance policy. 
On 20 February 2023, the train operator told Ms R that her departing train was 
cancelled. Ms R decided to cancel her trip. The train operator refunded the outward part 
of her train travel. Ms R made a claim against her policy in relation to the cost of the 
return journey and unused accommodation costs. Great Lakes refunded the cost of the 
return journey as a gesture of goodwill but didnt reimburse Ms R for the unused 
accommodation costs. It said that the policy doesnt cover unused accommodation costs 
following the cancellation of a train by a train operator. Ms R didnt think that was fair and 
pursued her complaint. 
Ms R says that she was stranded at home because her outbound train was cancelled, so 
the policy covers what happened here. She questions whether the policy was mis-sold to 
her. Ms R wants Great Lakes to settle her claim for unused accommodation costs and 
compensation of £500 in relation to the time shes spent on this matter. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Ms Rs claim. The investigator said that 
Ms R wasnt stranded under the terms of the policy, as she didnt start her trip. She said 
that what happened here wasnt covered by the policy and, in any event, there was an 
exclusion in relation to cancellation by a train operator. 
Ms R didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she couldnt start her trip because 
the train operator cancelled her train. Ms R said that the policy provides for 
reimbursement of an overnight stay due to missed departure following cancellation by 
the train operator. She reiterated her concerns that the policy was mis-sold to her. 
The investigator considered what Ms R said but didnt change her view. Ms R asked that 
an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont uphold Ms Rs 
complaint and Ill explain why:    
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. In general terms, insurers can decide what risks 
they wish to cover. 
Section one of Ms Rs policy  Train ticket cancellation - covers travel costs  
not unused accommodation costs - if she is unable to undertake her insured 
journey due to certain, specified reasons. Those reasons dont include cancellation 
of the train by the train operator in the circumstances that arose here. So, what 
happened here isnt an insured event. 
Even if I came to a different conclusion about that, there are two relevant 
exclusions in the policy. One excludes cover for cancellation claims following an 
insureds disinclination to travel. Ms R, quite understandably, decided to cancel her 
trip because of reported travel chaos following the cancellation of her outward train. 
A claim following disinclination to travel is excluded from cover. Theres also an 
exclusion in relation to cancellation of an insured journey by a train operator.  
Ms R says that Great Lakes should settle her claim under section two, Stranded 
traveller. Im afraid I dont agree. That section includes cover for reasonable 
expenses for alternative travel arrangements where an insured arrives too late to 
board the train or where theres disruption requiring an overnight stay away from 
home for certain, specified reasons which arent relevant here. In any event, the 
exclusions Ive referred to above also apply to this section of the policy.  
Ms R questions whether the policy was mis-sold to her. Great Lakes didnt give   
Ms R advice about the suitability of the policy. But its required to give Ms R 
information thats clear, fair and not misleading, so that she can make her own 
decision about whether the policy is suitable for her.  
Ive looked at the information Great Lakes made available to Ms R. The Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) is a summary of cover. Under the heading 
What is not insured? it says, Your disinclination to travel. Ive also looked at 
the policy terms. I think they are sufficiently clear to enable Ms R to make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for her. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining her claim for unused 
accommodation costs. There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct          
Great Lakes to settle her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman