DRN-2717250
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Ulster Bank Ltd couldnt provide information that he needed to facilitate 
a transfer of funds from overseas.  
What happened
In October 2020, Mr S contacted Ulster Bank and asked whether the bank had a 
correspondent bank in a specific overseas country, as he was attempting to transfer money 
to the UK from that country and had been asked by his overseas bank to obtain local 
correspondent bank details to enable the transfer to take place.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with the level of service he received when calling Ulster Bank, including 
that no one was able to tell him whether a correspondent bank in that country existed or not. 
Mr S was also unhappy that the beneficial currency exchange rate he was looking to take 
advantage of was no longer available and felt that he had missed being able to obtain that 
rate because Ulster Bank hadnt been able to provide the information he needed. So, he 
made a complaint.
Ulster Bank looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they felt that the nomination of a correspondent 
bank was the responsibility of the bank initiating the transfer, and that as such it was the 
overseas bank that Mr S was using that should have made that nomination. However, they 
acknowledged that the level of service that theyd provided to Mr S wasnt to the standard 
that they would have liked, so they offered Mr S £80 compensation for the inconvenience he 
had incurred.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Ulster Banks response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that it was fair to 
ask Ulster Bank to compensate Mr S for the loss he was claiming on the basis of the 
currency exchange rate moving against him, but they did agree that Ulster Bank could have 
provided the information that Mr S was asking for to enable him to move forward with the 
transfer in a more timely manner. 
Our investigator therefore recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ss favour, and 
that Ulster Bank should pay Mr S a further £120 in addition to the £80 that they had already 
offered, so that the total amount of compensation to be paid would be £200.
Mr S didnt think that the level of compensation recommended by our investigator went far 
enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ulster Bank have acknowledged that when Mr S first contacted them, he wasnt presented 
with the information that he was seeking - specifically whether Ulster Bank had a 
correspondent bank in the country from which Mr S was looking to make the financial 
transfer. Ulster Bank have subsequently confirmed to this service that they do not have a 
correspondent bank in that country, but that it took some time to confirm that this was the 
case.
Mr S contends that because Ulster Bank werent able to provide this information to him, he 
couldnt initiate the transfer when he would have liked, and this meant that when he was able 
to progress with the transfer the currency exchange rate he received was lower than what he 
should have received, had Ulster Bank provided the information when he first asked.
Im not convinced by this argument for a number of reasons. Firstly, its usually the role of 
the remitting bank to nominate a correspondent bank to be used in a financial transfer, and 
this is because its the remitting bank that are initiating that transfer. Mr S has explained that 
things work differently in the country where he was seeking to make the transfer from, and 
that there it is the role of the receiving bank to nominate a correspondent bank. 
While this may be true, given that the very nature of an international monetary transfer is that 
it involves two countries, its seems unlikely to me that the transfer would have been derailed 
so easily by the lack of correspondent bank information being provided by Ulster Bank. 
Indeed, given that the majority of overseas countries operate so that a correspondent bank 
is nominated by the bank sending the money, its difficult to envisage a scenario where the 
bank Mr S was using werent aware of this, or havent encountered this issue with previous 
overseas transfer attempts, such that they wouldnt have appropriate processes in place to 
counter this.
Even granting that Mr S wasnt able to make the transfer from the overseas bank because 
he didnt have the necessary correspondent bank information, there are many other ways to 
transfer money between countries, and it wasnt the case that Mr S had to necessarily use 
that specific overseas bank. All of which means that its difficult for me to consider upholding 
Mr Ss complaint here as it relates to compensation for the lower exchange rate he received.
However, it is clear that Mr S has found his experience with Ulster Bank to be very 
frustrating here, and Im in agreement that the standard of service that he received could 
have been better. Our investigator recommended that compensation totalling £200 be paid 
by Ulster Bank to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience he has incurred, and Ulster Bank 
have agreed to this level of compensation. This feels fair to me, and I note that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, in light of what has occurred here, and I 
will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but I hope that he can 
understand, considering everything I have explained above, why I have reached the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
Ulster Bank must pay Mr S a total of £200, inclusive of any amount already paid to Mr S, by 
way of compensation for the inconvenience that he has incurred.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Ulster Bank Ltd on the basis 
explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman