DRN-3406007
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK limited failed to provide him with accurate 
information about the value of his pension policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only 
summarised them below.
In 2017 Mr S complained to Aviva as his pension statements werent accurate. They 
had missing units that hadnt been allocated to Mr Ss account following one-off 
contributions hed made over several years. The complaint was upheld. At that time 
Aviva confirmed the correct values of Mr Ss funds and said the issue had been 
resolved.
In 2020 Mr S received a pension valuation from Aviva. He didnt think the value was 
accurate. Mr S asked Aviva for a list of contributions which they provided. However, 
when Mr S reviewed them, they showed the one-off contributions missing again 
from his funds. 
In August 2020 Mr S complained to Aviva and they upheld his complaint. Aviva said 
they could see Mr S had issues with incorrect valuations previously. And they didnt 
think the correct remedial action had been taken to stop the errors happening again. 
Aviva sent Mr S a cheque for £250 compensation and said he would receive 
confirmation of the correct values relating to his policy.
Aviva then sent Mr S a unit statement. But one of his funds was showing as having 
almost half the units it had shown the previous year. Mr S says he asked Aviva for 
an explanation of this discrepancy, but they failed to give him one. 
Mr S says he was unhappy with Avivas management of his policy, so he decided to 
transfer to a new provider. But he says he was still very concerned that the transfer 
value he received from Aviva may not have been accurate. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said Aviva should have provided 
accurate information to Mr S about his policy. They asked Aviva to send Mr S a detailed unit 
statement and explain why the 2020 units differed from 2019. They also said Aviva should 
provide a full contribution history and that if it was determined that the transfer value Mr S 
received was incorrect, Aviva needed to rectify any losses. They also said Aviva should pay 
Mr S an additional £650 compensation in respect of the stress and frustration he had 
suffered. 
In response Aviva provided the required information to our investigator who passed it on to 
Mr S. They also said the transfer value had been double checked by their actuaries and was 
correct. However, they felt an additional compensation payment of £650 was excessive and 
offered £250 instead.
Mr S says the information regarding the transfer value looks about right and trusted the 
missing contributions had been accounted for. But he didnt accept Avivas compensation 
offer as he said the onus was always on him to cross check Avivas calculations and point 
out their errors. And that led to a considerable amount of stress and wasted time. 
As Aviva didnt accept our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Aviva have now sent Mr S a detailed explanation of his contribution history and 
the breakdown of units he held in his policy. Im not an actuary so I cant give an expert 
opinion as to its accuracy. But Mr S seems content that the calculations are correct, and that 
the missing contributions had been accounted for. So, my decision will focus on whether 
Aviva should pay Mr S an additional £650 compensation - which appears to be the only 
outstanding matter that needs a resolution. 
Ive taken several factors into account when assessing the impact of Avivas errors. 
This wasnt the first time Aviva had made a similar error. Mr S had already been through a 
complaint in 2017 around a very similar issue. And having already had to correct that similar 
error, I think Aviva ought to have been extra vigilant to make sure that any information they 
gave Mr S thereafter was correct. But Aviva acknowledged in their letter to Mr S that they 
hadnt taken the remedial action they should have done to make sure these errors didnt 
happen again. So, I can appreciate why, in 2020, Mr S was immediately caused additional 
stress and upset when it appeared Aviva had repeated its earlier error and the issue still 
wasnt resolved. 
I can see it was Mr S who had to explain to Aviva that an error had been made and provide 
supporting evidence to allow them to look into things. Consumers should be able to have 
confidence that the information a firm sends them is accurate. And it shouldnt be necessary 
for a consumer to have to take the time to double check businesses valuations and point out 
their errors. After all, its the business thats usually the expert in these matters, not the 
consumer.
Mr Ss frustrations were compounded when, in response to his more recent complaint, Aviva 
said theyd send him confirmation of the correct values. But the following day Aviva again 
sent Mr S a statement showing an incorrect number of units in his policy and therefore an 
incorrect valuation for the policy overall. 
I can see the impact of Avivas repeated errors over several years meant that Mr S lost faith 
in their ability to effectively administer his policy. Which caused him to want to transfer to a 
new provider. And I appreciate Mr Ss concerns that the eventual transfer value he received 
may not have been accurate, due to the repeated incorrect valuations Aviva gave him. 
Those concerns were only eased once Aviva sent a detailed breakdown of Mr Ss transfer 
value to our service in early 2022. 
In summary, throughout his dealings with Aviva, Mr S had to employ a level of scrutiny a 
consumer wouldnt normally expect to have to do in order to be satisfied he was receiving 
accurate information about his funds. And I think that would take considerable effort. 
The knock-on effect is that Mr S has been caused a significant level of inconvenience trying to resolve this issue which has been ongoing for several years. I can see how having to 
contact Aviva multiple times would be disruptive to his everyday life. And I think the fact that 
Mr S has now transferred away from Aviva demonstrates the significant level of 
dissatisfaction and upset caused by Avivas repeated errors. That in itself probably caused 
added disruption in Mr S having to source a new provider. So, in the full circumstances of 
this complaint, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Aviva to make an additional 
compensation payment of £650 on top of the £250 originally offered (so £900 in total) for the 
inconvenience and upset Mr S has suffered.   
Putting things right
Aviva must pay Mr S a total of £900 for the inconvenience and upset hes suffered. 
Avivas final response letter said theyd send Mr S a cheque for £250. If Mr S has received 
and cashed that cheque, £250 can be deducted from the figure above and Aviva need only 
pay £650 more to Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must now pay 
Mr S a total of £900 (including any amounts already paid) as referred to above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman