DRN-3688178
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) didnt 
pursue a chargeback claim for him and that they were unreasonable not to fully uphold a 
claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr P has provided extensive documentation here. Its been very helpful, and Ive read and 
considered it all. I mean no disrespect if I dont refer to all of the points Mr P has raised as 
its necessary for me to concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Tesco didnt process a chargeback claim because the card scheme administrators rules 
didnt allow them to claim for consequential losses and also because the rules didnt allow a 
partial claim to be made. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances as the claim 
couldnt have succeeded on that basis.
However, when something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is 
the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 were 
met.
There are several aspects to Mr Ps complaint. Ill consider each in turn.
Was the work necessary?
The suppliers quotation said the work was for: loft clearance, one month rat control, 
proofing materials for internal only, loft material to be reinstalled to min requirements only. 
Waste for loft material only.
There appears to be no question that the loft was cleared, that poison was laid to control 
rats, that proofing was applied to prevent rats getting into the loft, in part at least, and that 
insulation, was removed but not replaced when there was a subsequent cost dispute.
The report Mr P acquired from another company, Ill call them S, suggests the internal 
proofing was unnecessary. They also dispute whether it was necessary to remove the 
insulation and they suggest external proofing was inadequate.
Im not persuaded that Ss view alone is sufficient to suggest the work was unnecessary. 
Whilst I note Ss view that the internal proofing didnt prevent rodents from entering the wall 
cavities it seems likely it would have prevented rodent access through the gaps it screened. I 
think it could therefore be fairly considered to be a helpful barrier. It may not have been a 
comprehensive barrier but, as S couldnt find trace of rodent activity I think that suggests it 
had been effective and suggests it was necessary. Mr P says the extensive baiting would 
have killed any rats that were still present so its not unusual for there to be no rodent 
activity. I think thats likely to be the case, but theres no mention of dead rats in the Ss 
report or of the smell of dead rats, so I think its likely they were eliminated by the suppliers 
actions. Theres no mention of external proofing in the quotation from the supplier so I dont 
think it would be reasonable to suggest this was part of the contract or needs and remedial 
action.
Im not asking Tesco to refund any money in respect of the work being unnecessary.
The insulation
Its not possible to establish whether the loft insulation needed to be removed as its now 
been disposed of and the level of infestation cant be established. As Tesco have agreed to 
replace the insulation using the mid value quotation Mr P has provided, I dont think its 
necessary to consider this any further. Mr P will be put back in the position he would have 
been in had the insulation not been removed. Id agree thats an adequate resolution.
The work that hasnt been completed.
S identified gaps in the wire proofing. There was a whole section that hadnt been proofed 
and there were gaps around pipework that needed to be filled. One of three rubber seals 
around the rain water pipes had also not been replaced. Ive already explained why I think 
this work wasnt unnecessary but as internal proofing formed part of the contract I think 
Tesco should pay for, or refund the cost of, that remedial work. Mr P has suggested the cost 
for the seal on the rainwater pipe is £11.60. The need for that work has been evidenced and 
I dont think the suggested charge is excessive. I think Tesco should pay that without sight of 
a quotation, but Mr P will need to obtain a quote for the other incomplete work so Tesco can 
fund it.
Redecoration
Ive reviewed the photographs Mr P has provided of the damage to his ceilings. The 
photographs dont clearly show damage in each room but there is evidence of damage. 
There are holes, damaged plasterwork, and an area thats been repaired but not 
redecorated. I understand that given the passage of time Mr P has repaired some areas already. Unfortunately, its not possible to establish the ceiling condition before the work 
commenced to make a comparison with its current condition. I therefore dont think I have 
sufficient evidence to suggest that all ceilings need to be redecorated but I am persuaded 
there has been damage and quite significant damage and I think the investigators 
suggestion that Tesco share the repair cost is fair. The investigator suggested Tesco should 
therefore pay Mr P £1,630 as that was one half of the quotation received in October 2020; 
that seems reasonable.
Putting things right
Im asking Tesco to put things right in the way Ive set out above and summarised below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to:
Pay £11.60 to cover the cost of the missing seal on the rainwater pipe. 
Refund £2,850 for the cost of the loft insulation. 
Cover the cost to mesh the missing section and to cover the holes around pipework 
in the supporting brick walls  subject to receiving a quote for the work from Mr P.
Pay Mr P £1,630 of the quoted amount to redecorate his ceilings.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman