DRN-4441283
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc refuses to refund money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
From December 2021 to February 2023, Mr W made debit card payments totalling 
£13,748.03 to a cryptocurrency exchange account Ill call B (this was an account in his 
name). This was to fund an investment opportunity he discovered on social media. He was 
able to withdraw a total of £2,573.38 which he moved from his account with B back to his 
account with Lloyds. 
Mr W realised hed been scammed and contacted Lloyds for assistance with recovering his 
payments. On 8 June 2023, Lloyds processed a chargeback claim on Mr Ws behalf. As B 
didnt reply, Mr W kept a refund of £1,215. But Mr W complained that this wasnt all the loss 
hed suffered and he wanted his remaining £9,959.15 back.
Lloyds declined to refund Mr W but paid him £30 for not providing a better service when he 
came to it for help. 
One of our Investigators looked into things. He didnt think Lloyds could have reasonably 
suspected that Mr W had fallen victim to a scam based on his payments to B. He didnt find 
any reasonable grounds for Lloyds to have stopped Mr Ws payments to B.
Mr W didnt agree. He said in summary:
The FCAs warning against B shouldve prompted Lloyds to consider his daily 
payments to them as highly unusual, akin to gambling.
The preventive measure that Lloyds has now taken is too late. 
A chargeback claim wouldve been successful as evidenced by his successful claim.
An enquiry should be made into why Lloyds allowed payments to B for over a year 
after the FCAs ban on Bs activities in the UK.
An Ombudsman at this service asked the bank to pay back funds in a case similar to 
his.
Mr W provided further evidence including; a list of his payments to B; another banks 
decision to block payments to B; an Ombudsmans decision in a similar case; and Lloyds 
website announcing that another bank has blocked payments to B. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint but before I explain why, I want to make it clear 
that I believe Mr W was the victim of a cruel scam and he is not to blame for falling victim to 
this, the scammers are. But being the victim of a scam, doesnt automatically entitle Mr W to 
a refund. My decision will just focus on the points I consider to remain in dispute. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute 
unauthorised investment advice. 
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
All of the payments were sent to an account in Mr Ws name, the first payment was made on 
24 December 2021 for £1,500. I dont think this payment was particularly unusual when 
considering amounts customers normally make on a day-to-day basis. Based on the 
payment alone, I dont think Lloyds had reasonable grounds to suspect that Mr W could be 
falling victim to a scam. 
From 27 May 2022 to 24 June 2022, Mr W received credits totalling £2,491.87 from his 
account with B  which was substantially more than his initial payment. 
From 5 August 2022 to 24 February 2023, Mr W made over 90 more payments from his 
Lloyds current account to his B account. None of the individual payments exceeded his initial 
payment of £1,500. And even though there were some days where multiple payments were 
made, the payments on those days were all of relatively low individual (and collective) value 
in comparison to his initial payment. Ill provide a table of payments from 1 October 2022 to 1 
November 2022 by way of an example:
Date Beneficiary Amount
1 October 2022 B £110
2 October 2022 B £150
3 October 2022 B £150
5 October 2022 B £300
6 October 2022 B £140
12 October 2022 B £200
22 October 2022` B £200
27 October 2022 B £500
28 October 2022 B £240
31 October 2022 B £100
1 November 2022 B £300
I dont think I can say any of the above payments, or any of the payments that followed were 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic when considering any customers normal day to day 
banking activities. In my judgement, B was not a new payee to Mr W and after the pattern of 
payments that followed his credits (above), I think Lloyds would have reasonably concluded 
that the payments that followed were in keeping with Mr Ws normal activities. 
Theres no evidence to support that Lloyds suspected that Mr W was falling victim to a scam 
or that it intervened in any of his payments and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
there were reasonable grounds to do so. Even if I were to accept Mr Ws argument that his payments were akin to gambling, Lloyds 
doesnt block gambling transactions from current accounts. I dont think Lloyds should have 
reasonably concluded that Mr W was incapable of managing his money or making financial 
decisions for himself  even if those decisions were high risk. 
Should Lloyds have automatically blocked payments to B?
Ive considered Mr Ws concerns that Lloyds ought to have automatically blocked payments 
to B in light of the FCAs findings. However, I dont agree. The FCA issued a consumer 
warning about B Limited in June 2021. B Limited is a different legal entity to B. The FCA 
advised that B Limited was unable to undertake any regulated activities within the UK. But 
the buying and selling of crypto with B (the activity Mr W was involved in) was an 
unregulated activity and therefore not banned. And customers could at the material time 
legitimately purchase crypto assets from B. However, I do recognise Mr Ws points that other 
financial firms banned payments to B in light of the FCAs findings. However, Lloyds didnt 
and I cant say it should have taken this decision as the regulator didnt indicate that firms 
were required to ban payments to B. 
I therefore dont think Lloyds missed an opportunity to identify that Mr W had fallen victim to 
a scam and therefore I dont think it is responsible for his losses. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa (in this case) whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
In my judgement, I dont think Lloyds had any valid grounds to process chargeback claims 
for Mr W. He funded his account with B, purchased crypto and sent this onto the scammer. 
B therefore provided the services to Mr W as described. If Mr W had any money available 
in his B account, this would have been accessible to him. So I dont think Lloyds had any 
reasonable grounds to have attempted chargeback claims. Nevertheless, I can see it did 
raise claims for some transactions that it said were within Visas 120 day time limit. These 
claims succeeded on the basis that B didnt defend the claims. I cant say Lloyds acted 
unreasonably by not raising chargeback claims in respect of Mr Ws other payments. But in 
my judgement, I dont think Lloyds had valid grounds to raise any chargeback claims. 
Ancillary points
I recognise Mr W has provided a final decision from this service that he feels is similar to his 
complaint. I dont agree that the circumstances are similar to his. In the final decision hes 
provided a copy of, the Ombudsman considered two payments of £10,000 each to a crypto 
exchange were unusually large when considering all the circumstances of that complaint. 
Ive already concluded that I dont think Mr Ws payments were unusual and I dont think 
Lloyds ought to have reasonably suspected that he could be falling victim to a scam. 
Finally, I note Mr W provided an article where B allegedly admits to financial crimes. The 
article was published in November 2023. This doesnt change my view that Lloyds didnt and 
were not obligated to ban payments to B. And as Ive already commented on, B didnt scam 
Mr W, the individual he sent his crypto to from his B account did. My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ws loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman