DRN-3369671
The complaint
Mr D says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) irresponsibly lent to him. He was also 
unhappy with its level of support when he told it about his financial difficulties.
 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Novaloans provided to Mr D between 
February 2021 and October 2021. Mr Ds lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 09/02/2021 18/05/2021 4 £200.00 £76.95
2 01/06/2021 30/09/2021 4 £400.00 £166.08
3 07/10/2021 Outstanding 4 £300.00 £119.75
Novaloans upheld Mr Ds complaint about loan three and offered to remove the interest and 
charges owing and refund any paid so that Mr D just owed the outstanding principal. It also 
offered to remove the loan from his credit file when it was repaid, and it offered £20 as a 
gesture of goodwill for not responding to Mr Ds financial difficulties sooner. But Mr D 
remained unhappy.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Novaloans offer of redress was more than we would require and so it was fair and 
reasonable. He thought Novaloans had responded later than it should have when it learned 
of Mr Ds financial difficulties. But he thought its offer of redress for this was fair and 
reasonable. Mr D disagreed and he explained his concerns. So the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Novaloans was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Like the Adjudicator, I havent considered loan three as Im satisfied that Novaloans offer 
restores Mr D to the position he would have been in if he hadnt taken the loan. A balance of 
the principal remains outstanding and I think its for Mr D to co-operate with Novaloans offer 
of an affordable repayment plan to clear this. It will then remove the loan from his credit file. 
And I think thats very fair and reasonable.
For loans one and two, Novaloans asked Mr D for information about his income and 
outgoings and it carried out a credit check. Mr D said his monthly income was £2,150 and 
his outgoings totalled between £826 and £903. 
From what I can see, Novaloans credit checks didnt find anything significant that should 
have prompted further checks or prevented it from lending to Mr D at this stage. I think one 
late payment and one default in the past 12 months isnt a sufficient reason to stop 
Novaloans from lending to Mr D. 
Mr D thought the repeated borrowing shouldnt have been approved without further checks. 
Mr D told us that further checks would have shown that he was gambling at the time. He said 
he had significant debts at the time and a very poor credit file. 
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Novaloans obtained. And Mr Ds actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Novaloans could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr D, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr D. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Novaloans needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Novaloans carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Ds actual financial 
position. 
Novaloans relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Ds declared income and Mr D only taking two loans, I 
think that this wasnt unreasonable. 
So from Novaloans checks, loans one and two looked affordable for Mr D, And so I cant 
say it was wrong for Novaloans to have provided them. 
Mr D said Novaloans hadnt responded sympathetically to his financial distress. I can see 
from the file that Mr D contacted Novaloans at various times about his repayments. But I 
cant see that he told it he was in financial difficulties until he made a complaint about 
irresponsible lending. 
At this point, I think Novaloans should have responded positively and sympathetically. And I 
can see that its already agreed that it didnt respond as it should have, and it offered Mr D 
£20 as a gesture of goodwill for this. Mr D said another business had responded more 
sympathetically. But I cant consider that here as Mr Ds complaint is against Novaloans. I 
think Novaloans offer was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance 
and so I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman