DRN-2139662
The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took out a £700 instalment loan from MYJAR in October 2017. The loan was repayable 
in six monthly instalments, with the largest instalments being £208.08.
An adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H asked 
that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
 
Ive looked at the information Mr H provided to MYJAR before it lent to him. Mr H told 
MYJAR his net monthly income was £2,300 and that his monthly expenditure included £200 
for rent/mortgage payments, £250 for credit commitments and £150 for other  a total of 
£600. I think its fair to say that the expenditure information requested was hardly 
comprehensive and the information provided was arguably not entirely plausible, given that 
Mr H also told MYJAR he had four dependents. Nonetheless, the monthly repayments for 
the loan, which were at most £208.08, were relatively small as a proportion of Mr Hs 
declared income and only about 12% of the income left over once Mr Hs declared 
expenditure is deducted from his declared income. So even when making an allowance for 
significant additional monthly expenditure, the loan still looks affordable to Mr H. MYJARs 
credit check also suggested Mr H had a low level of indebtedness as a proportion of his 
income, meaning I dont think MYJAR ought to have had any significant concerns about 
Mr Hs wider financial situation.
For these reasons, I dont think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman