DRN-1628530
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of his wife, Mrs P, that Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) mis-sold her an annuity. Mr P thinks Mrs P suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mrs P had a freestanding additional voluntary contributions plan (FSAVC) with Prudential, 
which ran alongside her main occupational pension. In 2008, when she was approaching her 
retirement age, Prudential sent Mrs P information about her retirement options. 
She eventually bought a standard annuity from Prudential.
Prudential wrote to Mrs P in April 2019 telling her that it was reviewing the sale of certain 
non-advised annuities in line with a previous review conducted by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Prudential asked Mrs P to complete a health and lifestyle questionnaire. 
Mrs P did that and told Prudential about her health conditions, the first of which was 
diagnosed around 2005/06. She also indicated on the questionnaire that she wasnt aware 
she could potentially have received a higher income from an enhanced annuity if she had 
certain lifestyle or medical conditions. 
In July 2019  on completion of its review - Prudential wrote to Mrs P. It apologised that she 
wasnt given enough information about enhanced annuities when the plan was set up and 
that she didnt know she could shop around on the open market and potentially achieve a 
higher income. However, Prudential said it was satisfied Mrs P hadnt suffered a financial 
loss and included the figures compared when reaching that conclusion along with an 
explanation of some of the terms used. In explaining its decision, Prudential told Mrs P it had 
specifically taken account of the health information shed provided. But it said it transpired 
she was receiving more (a difference of £55.86 a year) than she was likely to have done had 
she shopped around in 2008. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with Prudentials response, so she complained.  Prudential responded in 
September 2019 and said it was satisfied the outcome of its review (using a calculator 
developed by FCA appointed actuaries) was the right one. It also explained it had taken 
account of the medical conditions diagnosed before Mrs P took out the annuity to check if 
they would have made a difference.
Mr P complained to us on his wifes behalf. Amongst other things he said Prudential had 
already recognised Mrs P didnt know she could shop around. And he said he couldnt 
understand why the annuity hadnt increased once the medical conditions were taken into 
account  particularly as in other similar cases reported in the press there had been an 
increase in the annuity. He also said the limited information hed received made it difficult to 
compare the amount Mrs P was receiving with other annuities offered at the time.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt feel that Prudential had done anything 
wrong. She was satisfied Prudential had correctly reviewed the circumstances leading to the 
sale of the annuity to check if Mrs P suffered a financial loss. Mr P disagreed on his wifes 
behalf, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prudential accepts that it didnt give Mrs P enough information when it sold her the annuity. 
So, I think the key issue to determine here is whether that led to Mrs P suffering a financial 
loss. 
Its not for me to substitute my own calculations for Prudentials. But Ive looked at the action 
it took to review the annuity to consider whether that was reasonable. From the evidence Ive 
seen, Im satisfied Prudential took account of the information Mrs P gave on her medical and 
lifestyle questionnaire. And whilst I fully appreciate Mr Ps position that he expected his 
wifes annuity to increase once her medical conditions were taken into account, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the reason it didnt was because Prudential did something wrong or 
acted unfairly towards Mrs P. Nor has Mr P indicated that there was a mistake in the 
information Prudential took account of.
In its complaint response, Prudential explained it had used a calculator developed by FCA 
appointed actuaries using underlying data, analyses and validationincluding historical 
information relating to numerous annuity providers to enable a comparison to be made 
between what annuity income you have received from Prudential with the rest of the market. 
And it said that having done its calculation, it transpired the rate it offered Mrs P in 2008 was 
competitive. Prudential didnt think Mrs P had suffered a financial loss, as she was receiving 
more than she might otherwise have done. 
It is correct that the regulator provided firms with a redress methodology that they should use 
in these cases so that consumers were compensated consistently. And Ive seen evidence 
that such a calculator was used. Comparing what a customer was likely to receive on 
average on the open market taking into account their particular medical history and lifestyle 
is a similar approach to the one we would take if a complaint was brought to us. We wouldnt 
expect a business to find the most competitive rate that was available on the market, as its 
unreasonable to assume every customer would have always found the very best rate even if 
they had been given all of the necessary information. 
Its also worth noting that every provider can decide what conditions or lifestyle factors they 
want to offer an enhancement for and how much. Some providers might also have minimum 
pension fund requirements before they offer enhanced rates. Its also not uncommon that 
standard rates from some providers offer a higher income than many enhanced rates. 
So, having a medical condition does not always mean a higher income can automatically be 
obtained.
For all of the reasons outlined, I dont think Prudential Assurance Company Limited did 
anything wrong or acted unfairly when reviewing Mrs Ps annuity sale. So, I wont be asking 
it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P (or Mr P on 
her behalf) to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman