DRN-3660045
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision not to meet his claim in full
following a theft claim he made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P bought a home insurance policy for property A which was the risk address. Mr P made
a claim under the contents section of his home insurance policy with Aviva for the theft of
power tools from a property he was renovating which I will refer to as property B.
Mr P was living in property A and said he had recently bought property B with the intention of
moving in. Mr P had bought separate buildings insurance cover for property B but had no
contents cover.
Aviva initially told Mr P that it would meet his claim for the stolen items from property B under
the section contents temporarily removed from the home section. This shows a policy limit
of £10,000.
However, Aviva later confirmed that it would only consider the claim under the personal
belongings (PB) section of the policy, rather than contents away from home section. The
PB section claim amount was limited to £1,000.
Mr P complained to Aviva about its decision as he believed his claim should be covered
under the contents away from home section. But Aviva didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr P
asked us to look at things for him.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva had
fairly applied the terms of the policy.
Mr P didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2022 intending to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. I didnt think Avivas policy wording was clear enough and intended to ask it to 
reconsider Mr Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr P didnt reply. So the case has been passed 
back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy with Aviva provides cover for insured perils. We usually refer to these as
events, such as theft, fire or flood. Like most insurers, Aviva sets out under the policy what it
defines as cover depending on the risk it is willing to accept.
Mr Ps policy schedule highlights the levels of cover he has with Aviva when he made his
claim. This shows that Mr P had contents temporarily removed from the home with a limit of
£10,000 and unspecified personal belongings in and away from home limited to £1,000.
The schedule provides a summary of the cover Mr P held with Aviva. The policy wording
provides an explanation of the cover. The key section of cover which Mr P believes applies
to his circumstances reads as follows under Avivas policy:
Contents temporarily removed from the home
We will provide cover up to the limit shown on your schedule for loss of or damage to
contents by any of the causes listed under Contents in the home, cover sections
numbered 1  10, while temporarily removed from the home to:
a) any bank or safe deposit, or any private home or building where you are living
(including while attending full-time education), employed or working in the British
Isles;
b) anywhere else in the British Isles.
Under the section of cover for Personal Belongings, Aviva says:
This section only applies when shown on your schedule.
This cover is for loss or damage to your personal belongings shown on your
schedule in and away from the home anywhere in the world.
Aviva provides a definition of what it means by the word home under the policy. It says;
Home
The house or flat, its outbuildings (including garages) and the total area of the plot,
as described on the title deeds, at the address shown on your schedule, all used for
domestic purposes and/or clerical business purposes only.
So I think its clear that property A  being listed on the schedule  is the home Aviva refers
to. Therefore, home is the risk address Aviva has agreed to provide cover for and which Mr
P has paid for.
Aviva says that Mr P wasnt living at property B where his power tools were stolen from. Mr
P told Aviva this when he reported the theft. He said he was renovating property B.
Mr P says as there is no definition of living and as he was working at property B, his claim
should be covered under contents temporarily away from home as his circumstances meet
this section of the policy.
It isnt a requirement for an insurer to define everything under the policy  and in this case I
dont think Avivas lack of definition for the term living is unreasonable or unusual. It
provided as an example what it meant by living when it referred to being in full time
education or work. I think a reasonable consumer would understand this to mean living as
in similar to living in their main residence. And so for the insurer, the risk is similar. So I dont
think Aviva has been ambiguous here. I think it has been clear enough as to what contents
cover it will provide while temporarily removed from the home.
Mr P told us that he had set up an office in property B and was working there during the day,
and there were beds in the property for him to choose to sleep over as and when he wanted
to.When Mr P first reported the theft to Aviva, its notes show that he was using the tools for
personal use. Mr P explained that he had buildings only insurance cover for property B. He
said hed just bought it, there were very few contents in the property as it was being
renovated and wasnt ready to move into. He said the tools were being used on what will
eventually be our kitchen.
Aviva initially accepted Mr Ps claim under the contents temporarily removed from the home
section of the policy. But it contacted Mr P a few days later to advise that this was incorrect.
Aviva said this section didnt apply as the loss wasnt from a private home where Mr P was
living. For its error it paid Mr P £50 compensation due to loss of expectation.
When Aviva advised Mr P of the change in the way it would deal with the claim, he said he
did live at property B sometimes and as he was working at the property, his claim should be
covered under the preferred term.
But I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr P was living elsewhere and
for the term living as a reasonable consumer to be interpreted as their main residence;
being property A. And I think it was clear Mr P was using his tools at property B for personal
use. Again, I think a reasonable consumer would understand in the context of the term;
employed or working in the British Isles to mean paid work or employment and not
renovation work to their own property.
Mr P says Aviva hasnt defined what it means by section (b) anywhere in the British Isles
and understands it to be therefore an all-encompassing term which includes his
circumstances.
We asked Aviva to provide their comments. In response, Aviva said;
(term b) is for when the insured goes on holiday or away for a weekend, and is
temporarily living somewhere else. As he is not living in the second property, just
working there at times and returning back to main residence, this cover would not
apply.
Ive looked at the policy wording and I dont think its clear enough. Section b is set out as a
separate level of cover to section a; but Aviva doesnt provide a definition or examples of
what it defines as separate. And so I can understand why Mr P isnt clear as to why his
circumstances do not fall under section b: anywhere in the British Isles
So Im upholding this complaint. Ive set out the steps Aviva should take to put things right 
below in line with my provisional recommendations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva to reconsider Mr Ps claim
under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman