DRN-4359451
Complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional sale agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement 
were unaffordable. 
Background
In May 2018, Moneybarn provided Mr W with finance for a used car. The purchase price of 
the vehicle was £11,980.00. Mr W paid a deposit of £110 and took out a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £11,870.00. The loan had interest and charges 
of £11,350.63 and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£23,330.00 (including Mr Ws deposit of £110) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly 
instalments of £393.57.
Mr W complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. Moneybarn didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that 
the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Moneybarn 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ws complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr W before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after Mr W provided details of his monthly 
income. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr W which had shown Mr W had 
previously defaulted on credit but this was over two years prior and Mr W also had no county 
court judgments (CCJ) taken out against him. 
In Moneybarns view, when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ws living 
expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments for this agreement 
were still affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr W says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr W and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Im not persuaded that the checks Moneybarn carried out 
did go far enough. For example, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable to rely on an 
estimate of Mr Ws living costs given what Moneybarn saw on the credit search it carried out. 
And I think that this ought to have led Moneybarn to do more to verify Mr Ws actual 
expenditure. That said, I dont think that obtaining further information on Mr Ws actual living 
costs would have made a difference to Moneybarns decision to lend in this instance. 
I say this because the information Mr W has provided about his finances at the time appears 
to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments 
were deducted from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ws actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. I know that he went on to miss payments to 
the agreement and hes said that this is because he was experiencing financial difficulty Im 
sorry to hear that this is the case.
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Moneybarn could 
possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, 
bearing in mind that the information provided now doesnt clearly show that this is the case. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while Im not persuaded that 
Moneybarns checks before entering into this conditional sale agreement with Mr W did go 
far enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
stopped Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably towards         
Mr W. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman