DRN-2756049
The complaint
Ms Os complaint is about her home emergency insurance policy with Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
What happened
In June 2020, Ms Os toilet was overflowing. She says she couldnt find a number to call in 
her documents, so looked up the policy online and called the only number shown. Ms O says 
she tried every possible automated option on the phone but wasnt able to speak to anyone 
to make her claim. Ms O says she therefore instructed a private plumber to repair the toilet. 
Ms O complained to Aviva. It accepts that the claim would have been covered under the 
policy and so it has reimbursed Ms O for the cost of the repairs. Ms O remained unhappy as 
Avivas agent (which handles claims and complaints on its behalf) that responded to her 
complaint and not Aviva, and they did not address the issue of her not being to get through 
on the phone.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend it be upheld, as he 
thought Aviva had done enough to put the matter right. Ms O does not accept the 
investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O is adamant she dialled the only number available for Aviva and whichever automated 
option she chose, could not get through to lodge her claim. Aviva says the home emergency 
claim number is in the policy documents and is easy to navigate, with clear instructions for 
various options. It says the claim line is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year and if a 
customer is required to stay on hold, there is an automated message to explain this. Aviva 
says it does not therefore know why Ms O was unable to get through. 
Given this, I cannot be certain what happened or why Ms O was unable to make her claim. It 
might be there was a problem with the phone line on the particular day but there isnt any 
evidence that Aviva did anything wrong and it was at fault for Mrs A not being able to get 
through to lodge her claim. 
However, even if I accepted that the failure to lodge the claim was entirely due to some 
wrongdoing on Avivas part, I do not think it needs to do anything further. Sometimes things 
go wrong and that can be annoying and frustrating but it doesnt mean compensation is 
always warranted. Ms O wasnt able to lodge a claim and had to get an independent plumber 
out. Aviva has already reimbursed the costs Ms O (even though it would normally pay for a 
third party to do work under the policy) and I am not persuaded it needs to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman