DRN-3275732
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a service plan, financed through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), was mis-sold to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. 
So, if Mrs B was given a false statement of fact and if that false statement of fact led her to 
enter into an agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think it had been 
misrepresented to her and Id ask BMWFS to take some further action.
Mrs B suggests that false statement of fact is that the service pack would cover two services 
within the first three years. She says she wasnt aware there was a mileage limit (36,000 
miles) and as her contractual mileage was 20,000 miles per year she was always likely to 
exceed that mileage limit before the second service became due.
Im not persuaded that a false statement of fact was given. I say that because:
The service pack provided what was advertised. Two services within three years or 
36,000 miles.
Despite the high annual mileage, Mrs B would still have been able to benefit from the 
second service as the investigator has explained that the manufacturer says services 
should be completed roughly every 15,000 miles. I think a request for a second 
service before the car warned of the need would therefore have been likely to have 
been approved.
Whilst I understand that the service light didnt illuminate so early I still think its 
reasonable to expect Mrs B to have been aware of the manufacturers 
recommendations. It was, after all, her responsibility to ensure the car was 
adequately serviced under the terms of the finance agreement.
So, Im not persuaded that this agreement was misrepresented to Mrs B and Im not asking 
Moneybarn to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman