DRN-3284652
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with a medical treatment he paid for using a fixed sum loan from Hitachi
Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi). He complains in respect of Hitachis response to a claim he
made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
Mr S says that he received the surgery on his eyes, but because the clinic (the supplier)
went into administration he didnt get all of the aftercare. Mr S says the supplier had said he
was due to receive some fine tuning at the next aftercare session in order to give the best
results. In summary, he says that he didnt receive what he paid for and because of this he
has also been left with vision which is below the expected level and some lingering health
issues.
In summary, Hitachi said that before it could do anymore it needed further information to be
able to judge the success of the treatment and identify what was required to put things right.
It offered Mr S £395 to pay for an expert assessment to help it do that.
Mr S has not taken Hitachi up on its offer. In summary, our investigator looked at what had
happened and said that an expert assessment was necessary to determine the extent of
what had gone wrong and what needed to be done to put things right. In the particular
circumstances he felt Hitachi had acted fairly.
However, Mr S is not happy with the investigators findings. In summary he says:
he paid for a package and has not received very important aftercare (to identify and 
carry out any fine tuning/corrective action) which has potentially put his eyesight at
risk;
it isnt fair for him to pay for services he contracted for but didnt get;
Hitachi should not have released funds to the supplier as the services had not been
provided; and
he did not attend an assessment by a specialist as Hitachi would not cover his
additional costs like loss of earnings.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 17 December 2021. In this I said:
Section 75 allows Mr S to hold Hitachi responsible for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the fixed sum loan.
However, there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 
claim to be valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties 
to the transaction, or the way the payment was made. In order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable I have considered the technical requirements that need to be satisfied in order 
for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
After doing so I am satisfied that Mr S has a claim against Hitachi. So I have gone on to 
consider the actions of the supplier here in order to decide whether Hitachis response to 
the claim has been fair and reasonable.
I am sorry to hear about what happened with the supplier going into administration, and 
how dissatisfied Mr S feels with not getting all the treatment he paid for. I have considered 
what he has said about his experience. However, the main issue here is that despite Mr S 
providing his testimony there is still a distinct lack of information to help me determine to 
what extent the supplier might have breached its contract with him  and the impact of any 
breach on the outcome of his surgery. This case involves a medical procedure about which 
I dont have specialist knowledge as to the standard of care and skill which would generally 
be considered reasonable, or what an acceptable clinical outcome would look like.
When considering a breach of contract I can look at implied and express terms of the 
contract. In this case there is an implied term (via the Consumer Rights Act 2015) that a 
service will be provided with reasonable care and skill. From what I have seen, Mr S does 
not appear to be arguing that the surgery was carried out without reasonable care and 
skill. In any event, without further expert evidence (and keeping in mind that the success 
rate was not guaranteed) it is difficult for me to conclude that the supplier acted without 
reasonable care and skill in carrying out the surgery.
It appears that the central part of this complaint is about the suppliers express promise to 
provide aftercare  Mr S says he only got one follow up of four planned sessions. I can 
see from the contractual documents provided that this aftercare is part of the service Mr S 
contracted to receive. However, even if I accept that he did not receive all the aftercare he 
was entitled to, the issue here is determining how that has impacted the overall benefit Mr 
S received from the treatment. I dont have documents from the initial aftercare 
appointment confirming the results of the initial assessment with any plans for further 
treatments or fine tuning. It isnt clear what a reasonably expected outcome would have 
been from the full aftercare programme and to what extent Mr S might be in a worse 
position having not received it all.
I have looked at the report from the opticians which Mr S has provided but it isnt persuasive
in showing me how the lack of aftercare has likely impacted the overall success of the
treatment and what sort of enhancement procedures (if any) were reasonably necessary or
possible following it. It appears that Mr S still has a residual prescription that could potentially
be fine-tuned  but without further expert information it is difficult to say for certain what the
impact of missing the remaining aftercare has been and what improved results were
reasonably achievable here. Furthermore, it is not clear whether the ongoing health issues 
Mr S has detailed are as a result of not receiving the aftercare and what the potential
impact this might have on his overall health.
I also note that even if it might technically be contrary to what Hitachi said it would do, paying
the supplier before all the aftercare was provided does not impact whether Mr S has a
Section 75 claim or the outcome of said claim. So I dont think this has caused Mr S a loss.
For the reasons detailed above I dont think Hitachis initial response to the claim has been
unfair. What is required to put things right is not clear, so it didnt do the wrong thing by
requiring further evidence to assess the situation. I dont think Hitachi had to offer to pay for
a consultant report, but it seems to have acted fairly in offering something in the first place. I
know Mr S does not want further consultations. I acknowledge that while a consultation
report isnt guaranteed to be useful and involves a degree of inconvenience to obtain, it still
stands that without further expert assessment it is difficult for me to conclude what sort of
redress would be fair and reasonable here.
I acknowledge that the parties are at an impasse here and that some time has passed. I also
recognise that at a fundamental level Mr S says he has not received all the service he paid
for. I can see why he is unhappy with that. It appears from the contract he was due to getfour follow up consultations but has only received one. I believe this is likely as I can see the
supplier went into administration shortly after Mr S contracted with it for the service.
I have thought about a way to resolve this fairly. Without evidence showing the impact of the
lack of aftercare on the overall success of the procedure it seems that at this stage an
unscientific but reasonable way of resolving the matter would be an award purely
representing the cost of those sessions Mr S lost out on.
The problem is there is no breakdown of the monetary value put on these sessions in the
contract. However, to guide me I have looked at the paperwork in relation to the costs
applicable after the initial aftercare period. The supplier indicates that these later sessions
are worth around £75 each when carried out with a specialist optometrist and £150 with a
surgeon. It appears not all the follow ups were going to be with a surgeon. But I also note
these rates are described as discounted so overall I think it to fair to apply the higher rate of
£150 to the missed sessions and say that Mr S has lost out on around £450 of value here. In
the circumstances I think this is fair and reasonable.
Hitachi indicates it credited Mr S with £395 for the expert report. It wouldnt be fair for Mr S to
keep this money if he hasnt used it for the intended purpose. But Mr S says he believes this
credit has now been reversed. I am not clear what happened here, but I will take what Mr S
says as accurate unless Hitachi clarifies in a follow up to my provisional findings. Therefore, I
am provisionally awarding Mr S the full £450 with no deductions.
My award is purely an attempt to represent the loss of value that the follow up consultations
represent as paid for under the contract. It is not intended to reflect an award in respect of
the overall success or otherwise of the treatment, or any wider detriment caused by a lack of
aftercare. Nor is it compensation for any health issues that might have arisen as a result of
the treatment. I have to make it clear to Mr S that this service is unable to make an award for
loss of amenity in any event. So, even with further persuasive evidence against the supplier,
I am unable to tell Hitachi to pay compensation for any long term impact on quality of life due
to the treatment.
I acknowledge the supplier has ceased trading. However, Mr S should still note that if he is
considering any further action in respect of the treatment he received from the supplier then
accepting my decision might affect any award/ruling he might have obtained otherwise. He
should take legal advice on this if it is something that concerns him.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay Mr S £450.
I asked the parties for their comments:
In summary, Hitachi confirmed that it credited Mr S with £395 for the expert report he didnt 
end up obtaining, and says it hasnt had this back. Mr S confirmed that this amount was paid 
to him directly and not added to the agreement as he was led to believe.
Hitachi also mentioned that it paid Mr S an initial £100 as a goodwill gesture towards the 
cost of the initial report Mr S obtained. It confirmed that it isnt disputing this amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The parties have not disagreed with the core reasoning and outcome of my provisional 
decision, so I am not persuaded to change this. I still think my provisional findings are fair 
and reasonable for the reasons already given. The main discussion point has been in 
relation to what Mr S has already received from Hitachi for this matter and how that impacts 
the £450 I have directed it to pay him.
The initial £100 Mr S received from Hitachi was a goodwill payment for costs associated with 
the first report he obtained. Hitachi has confirmed that it doesnt expect to recover this. I also 
note that Mr S did obtain an initial report, so I dont consider it right to deduct it from the 
redress in any event.
The later payment of £395 Mr S has confirmed he received from Hitachi directly. It hasnt 
been used for a follow up report as intended so it is fair that this is deducted from the £450 I 
am directing Hitachi to pay him. Mr S agrees with this and says he now expects to receive 
the outstanding £55.
Putting things right
Hitachi should pay Mr S for the aftercare he didnt get for the reasons I have explained. But it 
should only do this after accounting for the £395 it has already paid him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to pay Mr S £55.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman