DRN-2974253
The complaint
Mr C, Mr B and Miss J complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr C held an annual travel insurance policy, which covered Mr B and Miss J. Mr B and Miss 
J were due to travel around a European country during May 2020.
However, on 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. This guidance 
remained in place at the point Mr B and Miss J were due to travel. So they had to cancel 
their trip. They were able to recover some of the costs associated with the cancellation of 
their trip but didnt receive refunds from four of their pre-booked hotels. They made a claim 
on their policy for these costs.
Ageas turned down Mr B and Miss Js claim. It said the terms of their policy didnt cover the 
circumstances of their claim.  
Mr C, Mr B and Miss J were unhappy with Ageas decision and so Mr C asked us to look into 
this complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Ageas should partly settle Mr B and Miss Js 
claim. She concluded that the cancellation section of the policy did cover changes to FCO 
advice. But she noted that the policy only covered costs a policyholder cant get back from 
elsewhere. In this case, two of the hotels (which Ill call M and S) had confirmed Mr B and 
Miss Js booking was non-refundable. On this basis, the investigator felt that Ageas should 
settle the costs of these bookings together with interest. But the other two hotels, which Ill 
call L and C, told Mr B and Miss J that they could offer a credit voucher for value of their 
bookings. So the investigator concluded that Mr B and Miss J had been able to recover the 
costs of these bookings from L and C. She didnt think then that Ageas needed to cover the 
costs of these two bookings.
Ageas accepted the investigators recommendations, without prejudice to liability. 
Mr C disagreed. He said Mr B and Miss J wouldnt be in a position to use the vouchers, 
given their personal circumstances and the ongoing restrictions on European travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Ageas must partly settle Mr B and Miss Js claim. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of the policy and the circumstances of the claim, to decide whether Ageas has treated 
Mr B and Miss J fairly.
Was the claim covered by the cancellation section of the policy?
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of 
Mr C, Mr B and Miss Js contract with Ageas.  
The cancellation section of the policy says:
We will pay up to the amount shown on the schedule following an event giving rise to a 
claim under this insurance which occurs during the period of insurance for any monies you 
have paid, or which you are contracted to pay, up to the final invoice cost of the trip, 
(excluding the insurance premium), including the cost of locally purchased services, in 
respect of your travel and accommodation costs and other expenses, which are not 
recoverable elsewhere, but not exceeding the amount shown in the schedule in total if you 
cancel or curtail all or part of your trip following: (Bold is my emphasis)
A warning issued by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office that a country or countries you 
had intended to travel to should be avoided or they have advised against travel, provided 
this warning was issued after you booked insurance and your trip. Please see Condition c) 
below.
In this case, theres no dispute that at the time Mr B and Miss J were due to travel, there was 
FCO guidance against all but essential travel abroad. Ive seen copies of the booking 
confirmations for each of the hotels and Im satisfied the accommodation was booked during 
January and February 2020  some weeks before the FCO issued its guidance. Therefore, it 
seems to me that the claim falls squarely within the scope of this cover. And so I dont think it 
was reasonable for Ageas to turn down the claim on these grounds.
Should the claim be settled in full?
Ageas has already agreed to settle Mr B and Miss Js claim for the cancellation costs of the 
bookings with M and S, together with interest on the settlement amount. So I dont think I 
need to make any further finding on this point.
However, as Ive set out above, the policy only covers costs which cant be recovered from 
elsewhere. The terms also refer to Condition C which says:
It is a requirement of this insurance that:
c) (i) you reduce any loss by contacting your travel provider to obtain a refund if available.
This is a common term in travel insurance policies. And I think the policy terms make it clear 
that Ageas wont cover losses which can be recovered from elsewhere. In this case, Mr B contacted all four hotels to ask whether he and Miss J were entitled to any refund of their 
costs. L and C both told Mr B that they could offer a credit voucher/free booking.
Ive seen copies of both emails from L and C. L said that it could offer a voucher of equal 
value for another holiday period. C said that it could book Mr B and Miss J a room for free  
they just needed to let it know. Neither L nor C placed an expiry period on these effective 
credit notes and both appear to be for the value of the original bookings. So I think its fair to 
conclude that Mr B and Miss J have been able to recover their costs for these particular 
bookings.
And in my view, the terms of the credit vouchers arent overly restrictive.  While Ive 
considered Mr Cs comments on this point, as Ive explained, there appears to be no 
applicable timeframe to make use of the vouchers. And while I accept future travel plans are 
still uncertain, theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that neither Mr B nor Miss Js 
circumstances will prevent them from using the vouchers at any point in the future. This 
means that although I appreciate Mr B and Miss J would prefer cash refunds for these 
bookings, Im satisfied that they havent suffered any financial loss of these costs.
My conclusions
Overall, while Im satisfied the circumstances of Mr B and Miss Js claim were covered by 
one of the listed events the policy covers, Ive decided that theyve been able to recover the 
costs of their bookings with L and C. So Im persuaded that Ageas only needs to settle the 
cancellation costs of their bookings with M and S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to settle Mr C, Mr B and Miss Js claim for the costs 
associated with cancelling their bookings with M and S. It must also add interest to the 
settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.  
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr C, Mr B and Miss J, it should tell them how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr C, Mr B and Miss J a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mr B and 
Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman