DRN-3413793
The complaint
Mr W has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) charged a £60 
excess fee when he made a claim under his home care insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a policy online with British Gas in December 2020. During the policy period, 
he reported an incident and made a claim. A plumber came out and carried out the 
necessary repair, but British Gas then said that a £60 excess fee was payable as a result. 
Mr W complained to British Gas as he felt that the cost of the service should have been free. 
He said he didnt opt to pay an excess when purchasing the policy. British Gas didnt agree 
and said that when Mr W bought the policy online, he selected an option with an excess. 
Mr W was unhappy with the outcome and he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In her view, the information and documents 
British Gas issued at the time of purchase made it sufficiently clear that a £60 excess fee 
would apply.
Our investigator said that the sales questions included the following: - Choose your excess - 
it is the price you pay for each completed repair. The higher the excess you select, the lower 
the price you pay. She noted that two options were available, namely £0 or £60 and that the 
policy summary confirmed that Mr W had selected to pay a £60 excess. Our investigator 
didnt think that the British Gas decision to apply the excess was unreasonable.
Mr W remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to determine is whether it was fair, and reasonable for British Gas 
to charge a £60 excess fee for a necessary plumbing repair. Ive concluded that it was, and 
Ill explain why. Ive looked at the evidence and submissions provided by both Mr W and 
British Gas in reaching my conclusion. 
Turning firstly to what Mr W says, he is adamant that he didnt select a policy option which 
required payment of an excess. He said that he chose a level of cover which he thought 
would provide the most comprehensive option of cover. It was his recollection that it didnt 
involve choosing from a number of different options for paying an excess. He said that hed 
read the confirmation letter very carefully but didnt consider that it constituted a part of the 
terms and conditions of the policy and said that any suggestion that it did would be 
disingenuous dissembling. He said that the covering letter didnt refer to the excess in any 
event. Mr W thought he should be able to rely on the terms and conditions themselves and 
that those made no reference to any excess applying to the policy. 
With regard to the service he received, Mr W said British Gas wouldnt make an appointment 
unless he gave his credit card details. As it was an emergency, he felt he had no option. He 
also said that the British Gas complaints process was made extremely difficult as it had 
closed down all email contacts without notice and telephone contacts were almost 
impossible. He also complained that British Gas referred to terms and conditions issued in 
2019, although he acknowledged that any differences were probably minor. 
In summary, Mr W thought that, having not elected to pay an excess, the terms and 
conditions on which British Gas relied werent relevant. He thought that the British Gas 
arrangements were misleading in the extreme. Finally, he said that British Gas had been 
unable to furnish a copy of his actual application or to demonstrate that hed completed a 
form in the manner suggested. He said that British Gas have simply said that he 'would 
have' completed the form in a particular way and that this was insufficient evidence of a 
decision to accept a £60 excess. He said: - A presumption unsupported by evidence is not a 
proper basis for reaching a decision.
Turning to what British Gas have to say, it considered that its welcome documents did refer 
to the excess payable as follows; - You have HomeCare Four (£60.00 excess). It also 
referred to an extract from its Product Information Document (PID) as follows: - If you have 
chosen to pay an excess you will need to pay this for each completed year or replacement. 
It said the policy also stated, under the heading Making repairs that it referred to the excess 
or fixed fee as follows; - Your statement shows how much excess or fixed fee youve agreed 
to pay each time we complete a repair or replace your appliance
British Gas said it was unable to provide a copy of Mr Ws application filled out however it 
provided information to show how the automatic on-line system needed to be completed for 
the relevant policy to have been set up.
It said that Mr W set up his policy with a chosen excess. It said that the excess payment was 
only debited from Mr Ws account once the repair had been completed. British Gas also said 
that the policy documents confirmed the arrangements and need to be referred to and 
reviewed to ensure that the policy was suitable for the policy-holders needs.  It said that in 
viewing Mr Ws online account and the British Gas App, both confirmed the excess. It said 
that Mr Ws monthly payments were lower each month as hed selected the excess option.
 
As to its complaints service, British Gas said that it was sorry that Mr W was unable to 
contact British Gas by telephone or by email. It said that it had removed some of its email 
addresses; - in order to streamline and ensure that the correct staff were managing the 
inbox as there were some that were scarcely or not used.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy and linked documents provide a starting point for 
my decision, as they provide evidence of the parties reasonable expectations at policy 
inception. As well as the wording of the policy summary, Ive noted the wording of the British 
Gas standard PID and the policy booklet, which are clear.
I must make my final decision having considered what occurred on the balance of 
probabilities. Its possible that Mr W didnt actively select the option of paying a £60 excess 
and that the £60 excess option was offered as the default position. As such its also possible 
that the £0 excess option had to be actively clicked to move away from the £60 option. In the 
absence of an active selection, Mr W may not have noticed or appreciated at the time that 
the £60 would apply. Having said this, Ive seen the format of the computerised on-line 
function, and Im satisfied that it clearly shows that two options, albeit that the £60 option 
may have been a default option. The function also clearly explains what the two options 
entail. This was also reinforced in the introductory documentation. This would have provided an opportunity to query the excess charge if there had been any confusion. Im satisfied 
however that it would have left the reader in no doubt that an excess charge of £60 would 
apply.
I appreciate that the £60 charge has been a source of frustration for Mr W. Unfortunately for 
Mr W however, I cant say that British Gas has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman