DRN-4496948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that the interest rate Mortgage Express has applied to their 
mortgage is excessive and unfair. They bring this complaint through a law firm.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage with GMAC-RFC Limited in December 2002. They 
borrowed just under £160,000 over a 23-year term, on an interest-only payment basis. The 
interest rate was a variable rate, initially of 5.74%. The mortgage was subject to an early 
repayment charge if it was repaid in the first two years.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was transferred from GMAC to Mortgage Express soon 
afterwards. Mortgage Express says the transfer was in around July 2003, although the letter 
about the transfer is dated 2006. Mortgage Express was the specialist lending brand of 
Bradford & Bingley Plc. During the global financial crisis of 2007-2009, Bradford & Bingley 
collapsed and was nationalised. Mortgage Express remained a separate firm owned by the 
nationalised Bradford & Bingley, and it stopped offering new mortgage interest rate products. 
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs D repaid the mortgage in full. 
In September 2021, through their representative, Mr and Mrs D complained to Mortgage 
Express about the interest rate they had been paying on their mortgage. In summary, they 
complained that:
- Mortgage Expresss SVR has consistently been too high, and excessive when compared 
to other lenders SVRs, particularly when Bank of England base rate was 0.5% or less. 
- Mortgage Expresss discretion to set and vary its SVR was subject to an implied term 
that it could not be exercised dishonestly, for an improper purpose, capriciously, 
arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. In varying 
its SVR as it had, Mortgage Express had breached both this implied term and the 
express terms of its mortgage contract with Mr and Mrs D.
- Mortgage Express stopped offering new interest rate products in 2009, and Mr and 
Mrs D were unable to remortgage elsewhere. They had a reasonable expectation that 
they would be able to take a new interest rate, but were unable to do so  and as a result 
they had to keep their mortgage on Mortgage Expresss SVR. Mortgage Express should 
have taken this into account in setting its SVR but did not do so.
- In setting its SVR at the level it had, Mortgage Express had treated Mr and Mrs D 
unfairly, in breach of Principle 6 in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook, and in 
breach of Mortgage Conduct of Business rules. 
- Mortgage Express should refund interest charged above Bank of England base rate plus 
1.5%, and pay Mr and Mrs D compensation.
Mortgage Express said it had done nothing wrong and it had operated the interest rate on Mr 
and Mrs Ds mortgage fairly and in line with the mortgage terms. It said the SVR isnt a 
tracker rate and it had never described it as such. While it doesnt offer new interest rates, 
there had been no early repayment charge applicable to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage since 
2004 and no other barrier to their remortgaging elsewhere if they wished. 
Through their representative, Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to us. Our Investigator 
said that time limits apply to this complaint, and these mean we can only consider the 
interest charged in the six years leading up to this complaint  so, since September 2015. 
They also said that in considering interest charged during that six-year period we could take 
account of earlier variations to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage interest rate, because they 
contributed to the rate applied during the period we could consider.
The Investigator went on to look into the complaint, and didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Through their representative, Mr and Mrs D asked for a review. They didnt accept the 
Investigators conclusions about time limits applying to their complaint, and said they didnt 
know they had cause to complain until public awareness of mortgage prisoners increased in 
2019 and they instructed their representative. 
Mortgage Express accepted the outcome the Investigator had reached, although it provided 
clarification about some of its funding arrangements.
I issued a decision confirming the scope of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction 
to consider this complaint. I said we can consider the interest applied in the six-year period 
leading up to the date Mr and Mrs D made this complaint on 7 September 2021. I also said 
that in doing so we would take account of earlier variations to Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage 
interest rate because they form part of all the circumstances of this complaint leading up to 
the interest applied after 7 September 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. First of all, I dont think that Mortgage 
Express did anything wrong in not offering Mr and Mrs D a new interest rate after 7 
September 2015. There was nothing to say that it had to do so, either in the mortgage offer 
and terms and conditions, or in law or the rules of mortgage regulation.
Mortgage Express didnt offer new rates to any other existing customers either, so in not 
offering Mr and Mrs D a rate it wasnt treating them less favourably than other customers. 
And no early repayment charges applied to the mortgage after 2004, so Mortgage Express 
didnt stop Mr and Mrs D from applying for better rates with other lenders.
Ive carefully considered the fairness of the interest rate Mortgage Express charged Mr and 
Mrs D. Their mortgage was subject to a variable rate from inception  not, as Mr and Mrs Ds 
representative has said, a fixed rate. All the variations made to the SVR were made by 
Mortgage Express. Until January 2009, these changes were largely made soon after 
changes to Bank of England base rate and largely by the same amount  maintaining a 
margin of 1.99% until 1 June 2004 and then 2.00% thereafter.
However, by March 2009 the difference between the base rate and the SVR increased from 
2.00% to 4.34%. From 2009 onwards, the only changes Mortgage Express made to the SVR 
were made soon after changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount.
In changing the interest rate from time to time, Mortgage Express was limited by the terms of 
the mortgage contract. The terms and conditions are the ones entered into by GMAC  they remained in force and applicable after the transfer. Theres a term in those terms and 
conditions which says that Mortgage Express could only vary the interest rate in certain 
circumstances.
The 2002 mortgage offer said it incorporated the Standard Offer Conditions, Mortgage 
Conditions, and attached Special Conditions.
The Special Conditions said, at condition 7, that The interest applicable to this offer of 
advance is our standard variable rate. 
The relevant 2002 Standard Offer Conditions said, at condition 5: 
If you have a variable rate mortgage we may vary the interest rate by notice to you at any 
time for any of the following reasons:
(a) to reflect changes in our funding costs (actual or expected); or
(b) to maintain the competitiveness of our business, taking into account changes in 
market conditions (actual or expected); or
(c) to ensure that our business is operated in a prudent way; or
(d) to take account of any change in the law or regulatory practice relating to us or to 
mortgage lenders generally.
Theres nothing in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions to say that the SVR must track 
Bank of England base rate. That said, for the period I can consider, from 7 September 2015, 
the SVR did only vary to reflect changes to the Bank of England base rate  which is in line 
with how Mr and Mrs Ds representative has said Mr and Mrs D expected the SVR to 
operate.
Ive also thought about whether the SVR was set at a fair level at the start of the period thats 
in time. In order to do so, Ive taken account of historic variations to the SVR, which  from 
the starting point of when Mr and Mrs D took the mortgage out  cumulatively led up to the 
rate they were charged from 7 September 2015 onwards. Thats because if one of those 
earlier changes wasnt made in accordance with the contract, for example, it might not be 
fair to charge an interest rate from 7 September 2015 which relied  in part  on that earlier 
variation.
In making the changes to the SVR it made from when the mortgage was taken out to when it 
reached 4.84% in late 2008  after which there were no further changes before 7 September 
2015  Mortgage Express has told us that it relied on condition 5 (a)  to reflect actual or 
anticipated changes in its funding costs. It has given us detailed information about these 
costs. Im satisfied its appropriate to receive that information in confidence, as permitted by 
our rules, subject to providing a summary of it.
In summary, the information shows that Mortgage Express was funded by its parent 
company, Bradford & Bingley, in the form of loan facilities. Bradford & Bingley, before its 
collapse and nationalisation, predominantly raised funding on the wholesale markets. These 
wholesale market funding costs were generally driven by or related to the London Interbank 
Offered rate (LIBOR), not the Bank of England base rate. Before the financial crisis, LIBOR 
and base rate were broadly comparable. But during the financial crisis there was a 
significant dislocation between LIBOR and base rate, such that reductions in base rate 
werent matched by corresponding reductions in LIBOR  and, therefore, reductions in 
Bradford & Bingleys cost of wholesale funding. This divergence meant that while Mortgage Expresss SVR reduced (reflecting the 
reductions in LIBOR), it didnt reduce by as much as base rate. This was the case across the 
mortgage industry, not just for Mortgage Expresss SVR.
Following Bradford & Bingleys collapse, it was less exposed to movements in the wholesale 
markets and became primarily government funded. There were certain conditions and costs 
associated with its government funding  which in turn influenced the funding it, as the 
parent company, was able to provide to Mortgage Express.
Having considered all this information, Im satisfied that when Mortgage Express made 
changes to the SVR between 2007 and 2008, it did so relying on condition 5. Im further 
satisfied that it was entitled to rely on condition 5 and, in particular, on condition 5 (a) when 
reducing the SVR but increasing the margin over base rate, because the cost of funding its 
mortgage lending business was in fact changing, and the changes to the SVR reflected the 
changes to its cost of funding.
Its also important to note that condition 5 gives Mortgage Express the power to vary the 
interest rate, but it doesnt create an obligation to vary it. In other words, Mortgage Express 
has the power to change the SVR  but only if certain conditions are met. If those conditions 
are not met it has no power to change the SVR  and even if they are met, it is not obliged to 
change the SVR.
I dont accept Mr and Mrs Ds representatives argument that Mr and Mrs D had a 
reasonable expectation that the SVR would always be at 1.5% or a similar margin above 
Bank of England base rate. Thats not in the mortgage offer or terms and conditions, and Ive 
seen no evidence of such a policy or, if there was one, that it applied to Mr and Mrs Ds 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ds representative has referred to an archived webpage, but that 
refers to Mortgage Expresss variable interest rate products, not its SVR. It also pre-dates 
the financial crisis. Ive seen nothing to indicate that GMAC made any such commitment, 
and Mr and Mrs D cant have relied on something Mortgage Express said when they took out 
their mortgage with GMAC, a different lender. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has also said there is an implied term that Mortgage Express 
shouldnt exercise its power to vary the interest rate dishonestly, for an improper purpose, 
capriciously, arbitrarily, or in a way that no reasonable lender acting reasonably would do. 
Ive explained why Ive found that Mortgage Express acted fairly in varying its SVR during 
the period I can consider, and in reaching my conclusions Ive also kept in mind the Unfair 
Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations, as well as the relevant rules about mortgage 
lending and Financial Conduct Authority requirements. I dont think Mr and Mrs Ds 
representatives argument about an implied term adds anything substantive for me to 
consider.  
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mortgage Express acted in line with the mortgage 
terms in varying the SVR as it did, and I dont consider that it applied interest to Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage unfairly for the period I can consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 Janet Millington
Ombudsman