DRN-3352554
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed its 
banks account, without explaining why.
To put things right, G wants Barclays to disclose the reason for its decision, or reactivate the 
accounts.
G is represented by one of its directors, Mr R.
What happened
On 4 November 2021, Barclays issued a letter to G saying it would close Gs account and all 
of its facilities on 4 January 2022. It said it had done so in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Gs account, and that G could continue to use its account until the date of 
closure.
When G complained, Barclays issued a final response letter saying it couldnt go into detail 
about the reasons for the closure, but that it had reviewed the decision in line with its internal 
process and confirmed the decision was correct. So, it didnt uphold Gs complaint.
Mr R remained unhappy, so he brought Gs complaint to our service. He said another bank 
had closed Gs accounts shortly before Barclays did, and suggested that passing information 
on was a breach of privacy. Our investigator said she had independently checked Barclays 
actions and had found it hadnt acted unfairly. She said it had acted in accordance with the 
account terms of business. And that it wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Gs accounts  with which both Barclays and G had to comply  
say that Barclays can close the accounts at any time by giving two months notice, or with 
less notice, under certain circumstances. 
Barclays notice letter was dated 4 November 2021, and confirmed the accounts would be 
closed on 4 January 2022, i.e. two months later. So, because Barclays gave G the required 
notice period in accordance with the terms of business, I cant say it treated G unfairly.
I recognise Mr R wants to know why Barclays made its decision and I understand why hes 
frustrated that it wont tell him. But theres no obligation on Barclays to disclose the reason 
for its decision, so I cant reasonably force it do so against its wishes.
Theres also no suggestion that Barclays has disclosed any information about G or Mr R. So, 
if Mr R wishes to complain about a third-party bank divulging information, he should 
complain to that bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman