DRN-3299738
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was responsible for him receiving inappropriate 
advice in 1993 regarding the transfer of his deferred pension benefits from an occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan.
What happened
The advice that Mr E received was provided by Black Horse. That firm now forms part of 
Lloyds, and so it is Lloyds that is responsible for dealing with Mr Es complaint. For ease, in 
this decision, I will simply refer to Lloyds throughout.
Mr E has been assisted in making his complaint by Fair Return, a claims management 
company (CMC). Generally, for simplicity, I will refer to all communication as having been 
with, and from, Mr E himself. But at times I will be specific about information being provided 
to us by the CMC.
Mr E held deferred pension benefits with an occupational pension scheme. He received 
advice from Lloyds in 1993 that suggested he should move those deferred benefits from the 
occupational scheme to a personal pension plan. Following that advice Mr E did indeed 
transfer his deferred pension benefits.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests of 
consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had previously been 
provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect advice to 
transfer benefits.
Lloyds conducted a review of Mr Es transfer in 1999. It offered Mr E some compensation in 
December 1999 that he accepted. And then, in 2002 following further guidance from the 
regulator, Lloyds paid some additional compensation to Mr E in relation to the advice hed 
been given in 1993.
The initial complaint that Mr E made to Lloyds, in August 2020, was that the advice hed 
received in 1993 was inappropriate. In its final response to that complaint Lloyds confirmed 
that it had already reviewed that advice as part of the pensions review exercise in 1999 
and 2002, and had paid him compensation.
Mr E then brought his complaint to us. In that complaint he said that Lloyds had failed to 
provide him with details of the calculation it had performed. So, since it could not 
demonstrate those calculations had been performed correctly, they should be reviewed in 
line with the latest guidance (FG17/9) from the regulator.
It appears that Lloyds then provided the CMC with details of its calculations from 1999. In 
response the CMC highlighted three areas of the calculations that it thought might indicate 
an error had been made. It noted that Lloyds had recorded a policy fee of zero. It said that 
unreasonable assumptions had been made about the discretionary increases offered by the 
OPS  and that no evidence had been provided to show that diligent attempts had been 
made to gather that information. And it said that the data sheets showed an error notification 
 with no evidence to suggest the error had been corrected before the compensation was 
calculated.
Mr Es complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She was provided with 
explanations by Lloyds in relation to the specific areas of concern the CMC had identified. 
And since she thought those explanations were plausible, and no other evidence had been 
provided to suggest errors had been made, she thought the review had been carried out in 
line with the regulators guidance at the time. And since she agreed with Lloyds that the 
review had been designed as a one-off exercise she didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything further.
The CMC, on behalf of Mr E, did not agree with that assessment. It thought that the 
investigator had simply accepted what Lloyds had said without proper analysis or 
investigation. And in particular it thought that Lloyds explanation about the retirement ages 
used, that led to the error notification, showed the calculations were not in accordance with 
the regulatory standards at the time. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and by Lloyds. Having done so I dont think I need to consider 
whether the advice Mr E was given by Lloyds in 1993 was suitable as I will explain below.
The review that Lloyds completed for Mr E in 1999 was part of a large industry wide exercise 
supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases it wouldnt be 
possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational pension schemes they had 
been advised to leave. So the aim of the review was to check whether the value of the 
pension investments Mr E now held would provide similar benefits to those hed have 
received from his occupation scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr E, there was a lengthy period left before their expected retirement date. 
So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary because 
of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 1999. So although the compensation that Lloyds paid was 
meant to ensure the pension savings Mr E held would at least match the benefits he would 
have received from the occupational scheme at retirement, circumstances have meant that 
this isnt now the case.The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise and, as I will now go on to 
explain, from everything Ive seen Lloyds carried out the review of Mr Es situation as it was 
required to. I do understand why Mr E might be unhappy that his pension benefits are likely 
to be less than he might have received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then 
regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something 
this Service should now challenge or ignore.
But the review output was clearly dependent on the data that was used to perform the 
calculations. Some of that data would have been specific to Mr E  such as his age, length 
of service, expected retirement age, etc. Some would have related to the new pension policy 
that hed been advised to take out. And some would have been in relation to the OPS that he 
had been advised to leave. Gathering that information was a significant exercise and some 
firms chose to use third parties to assist with the collation of those details. But here, it seems 
that Lloyds approached the OPS directly, using data gathering forms designed by the 
regulator. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the information that was provided by 
the OPS when undertaking the review.
I havent seen anything in the data that Lloyds used when undertaking the review that makes 
me think it was incorrect. But I have specifically considered the three areas that the CMC 
has highlighted. I accept that in performing that review I am, to an extent, reliant on the 
information that Lloyds says it received from the OPS, and its explanations of how that 
information was interpreted. But in mitigation I havent seen any specific contemporaneous 
evidence from the CMC or Mr E to suggest that those explanations might be incorrect. So, 
on the balance of probability, I am persuaded that it is reasonable to rely on what Lloyds has 
said.
The data that Lloyds gathered in relation to the new pension plan showed that Mr E would 
need to pay an annual management charge of 1.1%. But Lloyds recorded that there were no 
other charges applicable to the pension policy. In particular the plan did not levy a policy fee. 
Whilst the CMC suggests that is implausible, I havent seen anything to support that 
conclusion, or a conclusion that the information Lloyds used is incorrect.
Lloyds says the data provided by the OPS didnt suggest that the scheme rules allowed for 
any discretionary increases to be provided. It says that its calculations, and the information 
that underpinned them, were checked twice internally, before being further checked by an 
external provider. I think that provides me with a reasonable conclusion that Lloyds did what 
the regulator expected both in terms of diligently collecting the necessary information, and 
then correctly applying it to the calculations it performed.
It appears that the scheme benefits that Mr E had given up were comprised of two tranches 
with different normal retirement ages. Part of his benefits (those accrued after May 1990) 
could be taken, without penalty, at age 60. The benefits hed accrued before that date could 
not be taken before age 65 without a penalty being applied.
So, when it completed the calculations, Lloyds says it needed to account for both retirement 
ages. That appears to be a correct implementation of the regulators guidance. And it is that 
difference in retirement ages that Lloyds believes created the error report that the CMC has 
queried. For some of Mr Es benefits the normal retirement age and the age used for the 
valuation of his pension benefits were different. I havent seen anything from Mr E or his 
CMC to suggest that the error report was anything other than a highlighting of this entirely 
correct discrepancy. The presence of the error flag doesnt lead me to conclude that Lloyds 
calculations were incorrect.I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr E. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, he will now be left with a 
pension that is likely less than hed have received if hed stayed as a member of the 
occupational scheme.
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be  
conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given. That review was 
designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about whether compensation 
needed to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt 
reasonable for me to expect Lloyds to pay any further compensation to Mr E when there is 
no evidence to suggest he wasnt fairly compensated in line with the review process at the 
time. So I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman