DRN-3629859
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about Bank of Scotland plc.
.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S account was blocked due to an alert from the fraud team. While I appreciate 
this caused Mr S inconvenience the bank has a duty of care towards its customers. 
In this case unusual activity was noted on Mr S account and a fraud marker was 
applied. I understand that the activity was genuine, but this may not have been the 
case. Given the circumstances I do not find it unreasonable that Mr S account was 
blocked when the fraud marker was applied.
Mr S called the bank after his attempted transaction was declined and his account 
suspended. While I appreciate that Mr S was told that the issue would be resolved 
unfortunately concerns remained and so Mr S was asked to visit a branch. I 
understand how frustrating this would have been but given the banks concerns I do 
not find I can say it acted unreasonably by requiring Mr S to present identification at a 
branch. 
Mr S visited a branch on the same day and provided the required identification. His 
account was reinstated, and he was able to make his transfers the same day.
Mr S has said he wasnt able to make certain transfers which may have resulted in a 
loss of interest and was concerned about an impact on his credit file. As his account 
was available to him the same day - and looking through his statements there is 
nothing to suggest any payments were returned due to the issue or any other 
adverse issues arose due to the temporary block - I do not find that I can say this 
issue caused him any material financial disadvantage. 
Mr S was caused inconvenience as he had to visit a branch to present documents to 
confirm his identity. However, as I do not find the bank was wrong to take the actions 
it did, I do not find that it is required to compensate him for this.
Mr S received a letter saying that his complaint had been resolved. I understand why 
this was annoying as he didnt feel his complaint had been addressed. The issue 
Mr S raised was about the account being blocked and him needing to visit a branch. 
As this had happened and the block on the account removed the closure letter was 
sent. However, I think this could have been handled better as Mr S had made his 
concerns about the service he received through this process clear. But as he was 
then able to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and further 
investigation has taken place, I do not find he has been disadvantaged by this.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman