DRN-3098491
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the way theyve 
handled her claims for two damaged televisions.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs H took out an insurance policy with DGI to cover her two televisions. 
On the sales call, Mrs H stated both televisions were the same brand, which Ill refer to as 
T and 40 inches in size. Following this call, Mrs H was sent a welcome letter and her policy 
documents.
On 21 April, Mrs H called DGI to explain one of her televisions had been dropped causing 
the screen to smash. So, she wanted to claim on her insurance policy. DGI accepted the 
claim and arranged for an engineer to attend Mrs Hs property to see if it could be repaired.
But on 23 April, Mrs H called DGI directly to explain the engineer couldnt repair the 
television, or take it away, as it was a different brand to the one shed declared when the 
policy was taken out. Ill refer to this brand as L. The engineer then provided his report, 
which provided the model of the television. And this model number showed the television to 
be 32 inches, not 40 inches as previously stated. So, the claim was accepted on the basis 
and links were sent to Mrs H to choose a like for like replacement as her original television 
wasnt repairable.
Mrs H called DGI again as she was unhappy with the replacements offered and asked for a 
cash refund. DGI explained the model number provided was for a 32-inch television, so the 
alternatives offered reflected this. But Mrs H disputed this, saying her television was 60 
inches and that the engineers photos would reflect this. DGI checked these and the report 
and explained there was no evidence to show the television was 60 inches. So, without proof 
of purchase from Mrs H, they explained Mrs H would need to pay £95 to upgrade the 
replacement to the television she wanted.
Mrs H challenged this and DGI agreed to waive £35 of this charge. But when Mrs H called 
again, she said a full waiver had been agreed. After consultation, DGI agreed to waive the 
full £95 fee and a television was ordered and delivered to Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt speak to DGI again until July 2020, when she called them to raise a complaint 
about the replacement television as it was faulty and had been collected by the supplier. DGI 
provided Mrs H with a link to select another replacement and offered Mrs H £50 
compensation to acknowledge the fact shed been without a replacement television. Mrs H 
didnt speak to DGI again until November 2020, where she requested to order a top of the 
range replacement that would require a larger upgrade fee of over £500.
DGI explained the £95 waiver originally applied would remain but that no further waiver 
would be applied. Mrs H said she was told she would receive a waiver of £500 but DGI 
explained there was no evidence to show this. Mrs H was unhappy about this, so no 
replacement television was ordered and instead, Mrs H raised a complaint.
Mrs H complained about DGIs decision not to waive the £500 upgrade charge that would 
allow her the television of her choice. She felt DGI had already agreed to this so wanted 
them to honour it. She also complained about the attitude of the staff member she spoke to.
DGI responded and partially upheld the complaint. They explained the upgrade fee was 
based on the specification of the new television to the one that was originally insured. So, 
they thought the upgrade was fair and had seen no evidence to show a £500 waiver was 
agreed. So they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They also apologised to Mrs H if 
she thought a staff member had been rude. Mrs H remained unhappy with this response, so 
she referred her complaint to us.
On the same day Mrs H escalated her complaint to our service, a representative of Mrs H 
spoke to DGI about receiving a cash settlement for both televisions insured on separate 
policies, as the other television had since been written off. But they were unhappy with the 
offer DGI made.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained from the 
evidence shed seen, it was most likely the television that broke was 32-inch, as stated by 
the attending engineer. She explained Mrs H had been unable to provide proof of purchase 
and had given the incorrect model in the initial sales call, as well as stating it was 40-inch at 
the time. So, she thought DGI had acted more than fairly by agreeing to replace the 
television with a higher specification model without an upgrade fee. And she thought DGIs 
offer of £50 compensation was fair, as shed seen no evidence to show Mrs H had told DGI 
the television was faulty until it had been collected by the supplier.
She also explained shed seen no evidence in the calls between Mrs H and DGI that 
suggested a £500 upgrade waiver was promised. And there was no note of this in DGIs 
system notes. So, she couldnt say DGI had acted unfairly by not honouring this. Because of 
this, she thought DGI had acted fairly, in line with the terms of the policy, and didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mrs H didnt agree and didnt think the call recordings had been listened to. As Mrs H didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs H. I understand Mrs H 
took out the insurance policy to ensure her televisions were either repaired or replaced if 
they broke. And I appreciate Mrs H expected the policy to provide her with a replacement 
similar to the one that was insured. And she disputes DGI have done so and I appreciate 
how frustrating and upsetting this would be. But for me to say DGI have done something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms of the policy Mrs H 
held. And if I think they did work within these terms, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms of Mrs Hs policy. Within these, it explains DGI will attempt a repair and if 
this isnt possible, arrange for a replacement to be provided. Under the section titled Replacements it says, we will arrange to replace your appliance with one of same or 
similar make and technical specification. 
Ive listened to the initial sales call, where Mrs H states her television is a 40-inch television 
made by T. And Ive heard the call Mrs H made to DGI after an engineer attended her 
property, where she explained the television was made by L instead. Ive seen the 
engineers report, which provided a model number for the television which confirmed it was 
made by L. And this model number stated the television was 32-inch, not 40-inch that had 
already been stated.
I recognise Mrs H believes this is incorrect and that her television was 60-inch and so worth 
more. And I appreciate this meant agreeing a replacement was difficult for Mrs H, as the 
replacements suggested by DGI were based on a 32-inch television. But Mrs H has been 
unable to provide proof of purchase for her television. So, the only evidence available is the 
model number provided by the engineer who attended the property. And as this states the 
television was 32-inch, I think DGI were fair to rely on this.
But even so, Ive seen DGI agreed to waive the £95 upgrade charge that was quoted for Mrs 
H to receive the replacement she wanted. I understand Mrs H complained about DGIs 
failure to agree this initially but Ive seen no evidence to show DGI agreed to this previously. 
Ive listened to the call recordings available and Ive heard DGI agreed to waive £35, not the 
£95 that was later agreed. So, I think DGI have acted more than fairly by honouring this 
waiver when I dont think they were required to do so. And I think theyve acted fairly, in line 
with the terms of the policy Mrs H held.
Im aware that the replacement television Mrs H was provided at this point turned out to be 
faulty. And it was collected by the supplier, leaving Mrs H without a replacement. Ive seen 
Mrs H made DGI aware of this after the television had already been collected and I cant see 
evidence to show they were made aware before. So, I dont think they were given an 
opportunity to rectify this sooner. But I think the £50 they offered to Mrs H was fair, 
recognising the inconvenience caused by the fact the television was faulty and shed been 
left without a replacement. So, I dont think they need to offer anything more for this aspect 
of the complaint.
Ive seen once DGI were made aware of the faulty replacement, they provided Mrs H with a 
link to select another. But this time, Mrs H wanted a model that was of a much higher 
specification that the original television she insured. As Ive explained above, I think DGI 
were fair to decide this was a 32-inch model made by L. So, DGI explained the upgrade fee 
would be over £500. Mrs H says DGI agreed to waive this. But Ive seen no evidence to 
show this is the case. Ive looked through all of the system notes and listened to all of the 
call recordings and Ive been unable to find this agreement. 
As the policy explains, any replacement is designed to be of a similar make and 
specification. If Mrs H wanted a replacement of a higher specification, I think DGI were fair to 
charge Mrs H for this. Otherwise, Mrs H would be placed in a position of betterment, which 
the policy isnt intended to do. Because of this, and the fact Ive seen no evidence to show a 
waiver of £500 was agreed by DGI, I dont think I can say theyve done anything wrong. And 
because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
Ive also considered DGIs cash settlement offer put to Mrs H. DGI have explained both 
offers were equivalent to the value of the televisions Mrs H insured. As Ive explained, in the 
initial sales call Mrs H stated these were 40-inch televisions made by T. And one of these 
was later changed to a 32-inch television made by L. So, I wouldnt expect the cash 
settlement offer to reflect the value of a 60-inch television, or one of a higher specification Mrs H wanted to purchase. Because of this, I cant say the offers DGI have made are unfair 
and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs H was hoping for. And I recognise Mrs H may still be 
without a replacement for her televisions. It is Mrs Hs choice whether she wishes to accept 
the settlement offers or agree a suitable replacement that falls in line with the terms of the 
policy she took out.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman