DRN-3886565
The complaint
Mr C complains about a decision by Starling Bank Limited, who Ill call Starling, to reject a 
chargeback claim he made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I dont think Starling have done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Starling, its administered by Mastercard, and 
they set the rules. Starling didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it fair for 
them to do so if there was a reasonable prospect of success.
I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success here as although Mr C told Starling 
the hotel had agreed to provide a refund, he wasnt able to provide evidence to support that 
assertion. I cant see he was able to provide details of the formal complaint hed made to the 
hotel either, and his evidence conflicted, as he explained hed stayed with friends whilst also 
claiming hed been at the hotel each day. There was therefore no satisfactory basis upon 
which Starling could raise the chargeback and, in those circumstances, I dont think they 
were unreasonable not to pursue it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman