DRN-3245760
The complaint
Mr U complains about the information recorded by Lowell Financial Ltd on his credit file. 
What happened
Lowell bought a debt in Mr Us name from another business and wrote to him to confirm the 
outstanding balance and new arrangements. The balance was around £450 at the time. 
Mr U made payments of £1 a month until 2020 when they were increased. Mr U repaid the 
balance in full in May 2021 and Lowell sent him a letter that confirmed the debt would be 
marked as satisfied on his credit file within six weeks. 
But the debt wasnt marked as settled within six weeks and Mr U complained. Mr U has 
explained he applied for a mortgage and it was declined. Lowell apologised for the delay in 
updating Mr Us credit file to show the debt was settled and offered him £100. But Lowell 
said the arrears information recorded in terms of the payments Mr U made was correct so 
didnt amend it. 
Mr U referred his complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Lowell 
had dealt with Mr Us complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr U asked to 
appeal and said the arrears information should be removed because it came about due to 
events outside of his control. As Mr U asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lowell accepts there was a mistake which meant it didnt update Mr Us credit file to mark 
the debt as repaid within the six week period agreed. Lowell has apologised and Mr U has 
provided a screen shot from his credit file that shows the debt is now shown as settled with 
the credit reference agencies. 
In response to the investigator, Mr U said the accounts are still showing as delinquent. I can 
see that one of the credit reference agencies has classified the account as delinquent but 
the other two havent. And I can also see Lowell updated all three credit reference agencies 
to show the debt as settled in May 2021 which is correct. Lowell doesnt control how credit 
reference agencies report the status of a debt beyond supplying the payment and balance 
data and confirming if the account has been repaid. Mr U can check with the credit reference 
agencies if he feels the status of the account has been misreported. But Im satisfied Lowell 
has reported the account as settled. 
Mr U has also explained that the debt and his payment record came about due to events that 
were outside of his control. Im not going to repeat what Mr U has told us about his 
circumstances during the period Lowell acquired his account. But I understand the debt 
came about as a result of financial difficulties as Mr U has said. However, Lowell has to 
accurately report how an account has been handled to the credit reference agencies. And 
that includes where payments are either not made at all or only partially made. In Mr Us 
case, he made payments of £1 a month for several years and later cleared the debt. As a 
result, that meant Mr Us account was in arrears for an extended period, which is shown on 
his credit file. As that accurately reflects the payment history for the account, Im satisfied 
Lowell hasnt made a mistake. 
A mortgage application for Mr U was declined in October 2021 due to his credit score. But by 
this point, Lowell had updated the account to show as settled. And, as Ive said above, Im 
satisfied the rest of the information it reported was accurate. Im sorry to disappoint Mr U but 
I havent found that his mortgage application was declined due to an error by Lowell. 
Lowell has offered Mr U £100 to apologise for the delay in marking his account as settled on 
his credit file. Im satisfied that offer reflects the impact of the delay and is fair in all the 
circumstances. As Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with Mr Us case fairly, Im not telling it to 
take any further action. If Lowell hasnt paid the £100 compensation it offered and he wishes 
to accept, Mr U is welcome to contact the investigator who can arrange settlement on his 
behalf. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Lowell Financial Ltd has already 
agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman