DRN-3854452
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have paid in 
settlement of his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
This complaint was originally set up as about Admiral Insurance Company Limited, but Mr 
Hs policy is underwritten by a consortium of insurers led by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. So, Ive changed who the complaint is about to Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen from outside his house and he made a claim under his policy. Admiral 
agreed to pay the claim. This would normally have meant them paying the market value of 
Mr Hs car at the point it was stolen, less the policy excess. However, Admiral deducted 10% 
from the market value (£2,840) because Mr Hs car didnt have a current MOT certificate at 
the time it was stolen. 
Mr H complained to Admiral about this, but they wouldnt alter their stance. So Mr H asked 
us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this and said that Admiral should 
only have deducted £200 for the lack of a current MOT certificate. And she suggested they 
pay him the difference between this and what theyd deducted, plus interest. 
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. I 
reviewed Mr Hs complaint and wrote to Admiral to explain why I thought the outcome 
suggested by our investigator was fair and reasonable. I said that I didnt think the lack of a 
current MOT certificate would have much impact on the market value of Mr Hs vehicle, as it 
was serviced just before it was stolen. 
Admiral still wont agree to pay the additional amount suggested by the investigator. They 
believe the lack of a current MOT certificate would have a much bigger impact than Ive 
suggested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy says that Admiral have to pay the market value of his car, less the policy 
excess if it is stolen and not recovered. The market value is defined as the cost of replacing 
the insured vehicle with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on 
market prices immediately before the loss happened. It says the use of the term market 
refers to where the vehicle was purchased. The policy also has a condition which says the 
insured vehicle must have a current MOT certificate. And the policy goes on to say failure to 
comply with this condition could affect the amount the policyholder is entitled to claim.
This means that there is nothing explicit and clear in Mr Hs policy setting out exactly what 
will happen if at the time of his claim his vehicle doesnt have a current MOT certificate. 
However, Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Admiral to make some sort of 
deduction. But I think this must reflect the likely impact of the lack of a current MOT 
certificate on the market value of Mr Hs vehicle at the time it was stolen. Admiral has argued 
that the lack of a current MOT certificate would mean it would cost 10% less to buy a vehicle 
of a similar, make, model, year and mileage as Mr Hs. But I dont agree. I dont think the 
lack of a current MOT certificate would have much impact on the cost of a car, which is not 
particularly old and had been serviced quite recently. 
It is  in reality  difficult to know how much difference the lack of a current MOT certificate 
would make, as cars like Mr Hs dont generally sell in the retail or private sale markets 
without one. But I think  if they did  the impact would be minimal and not much more than 
the cost of having an MOT carried out. It is difficult to know exactly how much, but Im 
satisfied it wouldnt be more than £200. I appreciate this is only my opinion, but in deciding 
the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, I have to reach a view on this issue. And 
my opinion is based on my own experience of the motor industry and the comments of 
others that are involved in it or with motor insurance claims.  
Putting things right
It follows that I think to put things right Admiral should pay Mr H the difference between what 
they deducted from his claim for the lack of a current MOT certificate and £200, which is 
£2,640. They will also need to add interest at 8% simple per year1 to this amount from the 
date they paid the previous amount in respect of Mr Hs claim to the date they pay him the 
extra amount due. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. And I order Admiral to do what Ive set out in the putting things 
right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Admiral must tell Mr H if they have made a deduction for income tax. And, if they have, 
how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr H if 
asked to do so. This will allow Mr H to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.