DRN-4105450
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund the money he says he lost to a 
scammer.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In July 2019 Mr S paid £120,000 from his Santander account to an account held at 
another bank by a limited company (which I will call H). He thought this was an 
investment opportunity whereby the director of H would buy products overseas and sell 
them in the UK for a profit. He received a total of £15,000 back from H before the courts 
ordered the limited company to be wound up in March 2020. Mr S says the director of H 
has defrauded many people and never had any intention of returning his money or 
paying the promised investment returns. He complained to Santander in June 2021 
once, he says, it became clear he wasnt going to get any more money back.
Santander refused to reimburse the money  it said Mr S had invested with a genuine, 
limited company and the matter was a civil dispute between him and that company. The 
second investigator who looked at this case agreed with the bank. But Mr S didnt accept 
this, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with investigator that this complaint should not be upheld, and for 
much the same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S but Ill 
explain why.
The starting point is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account, Mr S is liable for transactions hes authorised or otherwise consented to. And 
theres no dispute in this case that Mr S authorised the payment made to H. But the matter 
doesnt end there.
Santander is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the Code). Under the terms of the Code, the starting position is that a 
customer who has fallen victim to an Authorised Push Payment scam should be reimbursed. 
But the Code specifically excludes private civil disputes, such as where a customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, the CRM code isnt a general protection for consumers against non-receipt of services 
(including, as in this case, promised investment returns). Instead it only applies in very 
specific circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of a scam.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that he was scammed and, from the evidence Ive seen, it 
appears that he received only £15,000 back from H. But I need to be satisfied that the 
director of H had been intent on deceiving and/or defrauding Mr S from the outset. And Im 
not persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here. 
Ive reached this conclusion having considered everything Mr S has said and provided as 
well as evidence weve received from other sources, including the bank where Mr S sent his 
money and the liquidators appointed to H. I note in particular that:
Records held with Companies House indicate H was a genuine limited company that 
was incorporated in mid-2015 and was actively trading (with no suggestion of liquidation) 
at the time Mr S sent his money to it. Its often difficult to pinpoint when a business that 
has traded legitimately ceases to do so but, overall, it seems more likely to me that 
things changed at some point after Mr S made his payment.
Mr S seems to have told Santander that he met Hs director on at least one occasion 
after having been introduced to him by a close friend, who hed known for 10 years. The 
director also kept in touch with Mr S for a couple of years after he made the payment. 
This isnt the typical behaviour of a fraudster 
Mr S was given 300 ordinary shares in the company a couple of weeks after sending the 
money to H. He also received three payments of £5,000 from H between 15 November 
and 6 December 2019. Ive considered the explanations Mr S has given about this  in 
effect, that he didnt really understand what was going on and that Hs director was 
constantly making up new lies to justify his actions. But Mr S has been unable to provide 
any supporting evidence about this and, in my experience, its unusual for scammers to 
give shares and pay this sort of return.
The bank that received Mr Ss money has, in confidence, shared details of how the 
account was being operated, which I have reviewed. It also tells us it has no concerns 
with how Hs account was being utilised and it has received no other fraud allegations 
against H. If H, or its director, had scammed multiple people then I wouldve expected at 
least some of them to have contacted their own bank and alleged fraud, as Mr S did.
Despite what Mr S has said, hes provided nothing which shows the police have been, or 
are currently, investigating H or its director relating to the particular investment 
opportunity Mr S entered into.
On balance, the unfortunate situation Mr S has found himself in doesnt display the 
hallmarks most typically associated with a scam. So I dont think Santander ought to have 
prevented Mr S from making the payment in the first place, nor did it act unreasonably when 
it subsequently refused to reimburse him.
In all the circumstances, I cant fairly hold Santander liable for the losses Mr S claims to have 
suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Ruth HerseyOmbudsman