DRN-4351261
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Vanquis Bank Limited trading as Vanquis Bank has acted unfairly 
by registering the fact hes on a repayment arrangement on his credit file.
Background
Mr V took out a £2,500 loan with Vanquis Bank in June 2022. In September 2022 Mr V 
entered a debt management plan (DMP) with a charity. Vanquish was notified of this as Mr V 
was no longer able to make full monthly repayments and proposed repaying £16.87 per 
month instead. Vanquish accepted this plan and started to add markers to Mr Vs credit file 
indicating the loan had gone into an arranged payment plan. 
In December 2022 Mr V complained to Vanquis that the loan was unaffordable, and it 
shouldnt have given it to him. Vanquis responded to Mr Vs complaint in February 2023 
upholding it and agreed to remove all the interest and charges that had been added to it. 
This meant that Mr V only had to repay the outstanding capital amount he borrowed, which 
at that time was £2,145.51.
Mr V accepted this outcome and agreed to continue making repayments as per the DMP. 
However, he asked that Vanquish stop recording the fact that he was in arrears and under 
an arrangement on his credit file and instead record the loan as up to date. 
Vanquish explained that it would continue to note Mr V was in arrears on his credit file until 
such a time as the balance was cleared. Once that was done it would remove all markers 
from his credit file. 
Mr V was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Vs complaint already. She found that Vanquish wasnt being 
unreasonable by recording the fact Mr V was in arrears on his credit file as this was a true 
reflection of how the loan was being managed. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr V remained unhappy with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and so its been passed to me for consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by out investigator and wont be asking
Vanquish to change how its reporting Mr Vs repayments on his credit file. I know this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr V and so Id like to explain why Ive reached the outcome I 
have. 
Mr V has said that other credit providers who he has also entered arrangements with, arent 
recording information on his credit file in this way and there are no arrears markers showing 
for any other loans that are included in his DMP. 
I cant comment on that as I dont know anything about the other credit providers included in 
the DMP or what arrangements theyve come to with Mr V.
But I can say that its not unreasonable for Vanquish to record the fact that Mr V is in an 
arrangement plan and in arrears with his repayments on the loan he has with it. This is 
because its a true reflection of what has happened. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
ask Vanquish to mask the fact that Mr V hasnt maintained the loan as he had agreed to 
when he took it out in June 2022. 
Once the outstanding balance has been repaid in full Vanquish will remove the late payment 
markers. This is in line with what this service would ask a business to do and what it is 
obliged to do under the relevant regulations. 
Therefore, I cant say Vanquish has been unreasonable in how its responded to Mr Vs 
complaint, and I cant uphold it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against Vanquish Bank 
Limited trading as Vanquish Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman