DRN-3093866
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) agreed to give her an 
overdraft and the charges she incurred for this. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ss concerns and didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. Miss S, disagreed she says the overdraft was 
unaffordable as she had debts with other lenders. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Miss Ss complaint. Having considered everything provided, 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss S 
would be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Miss Ss overdraft. Miss S was given what was an open-ended credit 
facility. So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to 
be able to understand whether Miss S would be able to repay her overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time. 
NatWest says Miss S opened an account and applied for a £500 overdraft online on 23 
January 2019. She applied and was accepted to increase this limit to £1,250 the following 
day. Both applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Miss S 
provided about her income and how Miss S had managed her other accounts held with it, as 
well as information held by other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And 
based on this information NatWest was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her 
with the overdraft facility she requested.
I accept that Miss Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there wasnt any adverse information 
shown on the credit check, or significant outstanding debts elsewhere and the amount of 
credit being advanced was relatively low, I think NatWests checks went far enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. Miss S applied for a further two increases to her overdraft limit in February and 
April 2019 both of which NatWest declined. So Im satisfied NatWest continued to assess the 
credit applications made by Miss S appropriately.
This means that I dont agree NatWest provided Miss Ss with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Miss Ss overdraft and increase in limit wasnt provided 
irresponsibly, NatWest still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss S if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Ss account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss S was experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss S fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Miss S unfairly or unreasonably though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss Ss statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
NatWest ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
it being notified of this. 
I accept that Miss S was using her overdraft regularly. But it is clear that funds were going 
into the account which reduced the outstanding balance and eventually brought it into credit. 
Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss Ss 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions going from the account. 
Furthermore, the amount being credited to Miss Ss account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. Ive 
seen what Miss S has said about having other debts. But I cant see how NatWest would 
have known about this at the time. There arent any transactions shown in Miss Ss bank 
statements themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to any potential financial 
difficulty. And in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did until Miss S got in touch. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest treated Miss S 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss S  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman