DRN-3665374
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s 
decision to reject a claim they made for storm damage under their home and buildings 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr and Mrs Ps roof was damaged during a named storm. They made a 
claim to their insurer RSA. 
RSA rejected the claim and said the cause of damage wasnt covered under the policy: 
being wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked us to look at their complaint. They provided a copy of a 
homebuyer report from 2019 along with confirmation a roofer had carried out repair works to 
the roof in 2019. They said this showed the roof was in good condition before the storm. 
The Investigator said although storm conditions had occurred, he didnt find the information 
about the condition of the roof in 2019 was enough to overturn the findings of RSAs 
appointed surveyor in November 2021. The Investigator thought RSAs decision to reject the 
claim was reasonable as storm conditions were not the main cause of the damage. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and so they want an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers provide cover for specific sudden unforeseen events such as storm, flood or fire. It 
isnt unusual for an insurer to exclude cover for damage caused by non-insured perils such 
as wear and tear or a gradual decline in materials.
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
RSA provides a definition of the term storm in its policy wording. It says:
A storm will involve very strong winds powerful enough to cause structural damage 
to homes within its path. Its usually accompanied by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy 
snow.
Damage caused by normal weather conditions commonly experienced in the UK is 
often the result of wear and tear or lack of maintenance and isnt covered.
The wind gusts from weather recorded locally show that storm conditions occurred at the 
time of the event. So Im satisfied that the answer to the first questions is yes.
The damage being claimed for is for a ridge tile that came away from Mr and Mrs Ps roof. 
So I think this is damage which could be consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes. 
So the remaining question is whether storm conditions were the main cause of the damage 
Mr and Mrs P claimed for. 
Mr and Mrs P explained that at the time the damage occurred, one of four roof ridges was 
blown off and fire services cleared the loose ridge tile and residue from their roof. 
Mr and Mrs P explained that they bought their home in 2019. In February 2019 a roofer had 
carried out repair works to the roof ridges. Mr and Mrs P provided a redacted copy of the 
roofers invoice detailing the works carried out which included stripping off loose ridge tiles, 
repointing loose ridge tiles and supplying replacement ridge tiles. 
The surveyor who carried out the homebuyers report in April 2019 categorised the roof - 
based on a limited visual inspection - as not being in need of immediate action or repair. 
RSAs agent provided photos of the roof on inspection in December 2021 and said the main 
cause of damage to the roof wasnt caused by the storm. He said it was caused by 
deteriorated mortar. 
RSA checked online images of the roof from 2020 and found signs of mortar deterioration. 
So RSA said the issue was longstanding. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy excludes cover for damage caused gradually. This isnt an unusual 
exclusion as most - if not all home and buildings insurance policies have such an exclusion  
in their policy. So I think the answer to the final question is no. I dont think storm conditions 
were the main cause of the damage. I think the storm highlighted an existing issue. 
I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs P feel about RSAs decision. But I think the photos 
and opinion of RSAs agent carries more weight than the homebuyers report and roofers 
invoice - as it is based on the condition of the roof in December 2021. The homebuyer report 
and roofers invoice reflects the condition of the roof two and half years before the damage 
occurred. So I think RSA acted reasonably when relying on the more recent information to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P. And I understand it has been upsetting having to 
consider the costs for the repairs to the roof. But taking everything into account, I cant 
conclude that RSA has unfairly declined their claim. So this means Im not asking RSA to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman