DRN-3201650
The complaint
Mr C complains that he overpaid First Central Insurance Services Limited for his motor 
insurance policy.
 
What happened
After Mr C took out his policy through First Central, he reported two notifications. But these 
were recorded as claims and Mr C lost his No Claims Discount (NCD) and his premium 
increased. The claims were closed as for notification only and First Central said Mr C had 
made an over-payment. It said Mr C didnt need to make any further monthly instalments for 
the policy year. And it paid Mr C £150 compensation for its level of service. But Mr C wanted 
a reimbursement of the over-payments and reassurance that his premium was correct.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought First 
Central had readjusted the policy and premium. She thought that because Mr C paid his 
premium by monthly instalments it was reasonable for First Central to say that Mr C need 
make no further payments. She thought its offer of compensation for giving Mr C incorrect 
information was fair. But she thought that as Mr C had been without his money, First Central 
should add interest to the refund. 
Mr C replied that he wanted further compensation as he felt hed been penalised by First 
Central and had struggled to make his payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C felt frustrated with how First Central handled his policy. Hes told 
us that his monthly premiums increased with the two incorrectly recorded claims. I can 
understand that this must have been a struggle to manage. And I can see that, after he first 
complained, First Central gave him various calculations of how much premium remained 
owing for his policy year and what he must pay each month. 
When a business makes a mistake, as First Central accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
First Central said that Mr C should have paid £1,743.74 for his full policy year, including 
interest. By the time First Central removed the incorrect claims, restored Mr Cs NCD, and 
recalculated his premium, he had paid £1,513.95. After removing the unused interest, Mr C 
owed £194.53 for the rest of the policy year. So I think this restored Mr Cs position to what it 
should have been without the incorrectly recorded claims. 
To put things right for Mr C, First Central waived this outstanding balance. So Mr C had 
nothing more to pay for the rest of the policy year. And it paid him £150 compensation for 
giving him incorrect information. 
I think the compensation payment is fair and reasonable as it reflects the impact the errors 
had on Mr C and its in keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require First Central 
to increase this. 
But Mr C overpaid for his policy and he was without his money for some time due to First 
Centrals mistake. The investigator recommended that First Central add interest to the 
refund from the date Mr C paid the extra premium to the date of the actual payment.  
But I disagree. Adding interest in these circumstances is in keeping with our usual approach. 
But Im satisfied that waiving the outstanding premium for the year compensated Mr C 
sufficiently for being without his money. So I dont require First Central to add interest to his 
refund. Ive explained this to Mr C and First Central, but they had no comments to make.
So I think that First Central made a mistake but its redress for this has been sufficient and 
fair and reasonable. So I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman