DRN-3591220
The complaint
Mr K complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) registered a missed payment marker on his credit 
file and refused to remove it. 
What happened
Mr K holds a credit card account with Metro and says he got into financial difficulties as a 
result of losing his job during the Covid pandemic. Mr K says he panicked at the time but 
cleared his credit card account balance in July 2020 and asked Metro to help him by 
removing the missed payment marker on his credit file  but they refused to. Mr K says other 
lenders have helped him in the same circumstances and felt Metro have been unreasonable 
and wants them to remove the marker on his credit file, as it has impacted his ability to apply 
for finance in the future. 
Metro says Mr K didnt inform them until July 2020 that he had lost his job, and this was a 
result of the Covid pandemic. Metro says both May 2020 and June 2020 payments were 
missed, but given Mr K had repaid his outstanding balance in July 2020, as a gesture of 
goodwill it agreed to not register the missed payment for June 2020, but were correct to 
accurately report the missed May 2020 payment. 
Metro have accepted it should have dealt with his complaint more efficiently and have 
offered Mr K £50 by way of an apology. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Metros response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all of the available information and upheld Mr Ks complaint. The 
investigator says given Mr K had explained to Metro, albeit after the event, in July 2020 he 
had suffered as a result of the Covid pandemic, it should agree to remove the May 2020 
missed payment marker from Mr Ks credit file. The investigator felt given the overall 
circumstances Mr K faced here, this met with the guidance provided by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in April 2020.  
Metro didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to different outcome to that of the investigator and I will explain 
how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr K to have lost his job during the Covid 
pandemic and this would have been a challenging time for him. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Metro acted fairly when it registered the missed payment marker 
on Mr Ks credit file in May 2020. 
Mr K s complaint centres around the fact Metro having been told why he missed his 
minimum monthly credit card payments in May 2020 and June 2020, due to Covid, refused 
to remove the May 2020 missed payment marker, even when he repaid the outstanding 
balance on his credit card account in July 2020. Mr K says other lenders have been more 
sympathetic to his situation and he also believed that the marker was removed previously 
and reinstated later on. 
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. 
To begin with, I cant see any evidence to support Mr Ks suggestion that Metro removed the 
missed payment marker for May 2020 and then reapplied it at a later date, and Metro have 
told this service that didnt happen. Its reasonable to say without any such evidence, in all 
probability that didnt happen even if Mr K thought it had. 
While the investigator is correct saying the FCA set out guidelines to lenders in April 2020 
about how it should treat customers who experienced financial difficulties, as a direct result 
of the Covid pandemic, there was no requirement of lenders like Metro to look at these 
cases retrospectively. It was expected that customers should approach their lender to 
request a Covid payment holiday to determine if they were eligible for such an arrangement. 
But here, Mr K didnt contact Metro until early July 2020 where he explained his position to 
them and asked if he repaid the outstanding balance, whether Metro would reduce his 
interest and charges as a result. Having listened to a number of telephone calls, I cant say 
that Mr K was told Metro would agree to remove any missed payment markers. That said 
Metro did agree not to report the missed minimum payment for June 2020 as a gesture of 
goodwill, given Mr K cleared his outstanding credit card account balance in July 2020.  
Although Mr K may not agree, it is his responsibility to ensure his minimum monthly 
payments are met on time and his May 2020 credit card statement informed him of the 
consequences of missing a payment and says : 
You Have Failed to Make a Minimum Payment :Failing to make your minimum payment 
means that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement. We report missed payments 
to the Credit Reference Agencies and continued missed payments may lead to us 
registering a default.
So, its fair to say Mr K was given notice of this and if he was experiencing financial 
difficulties due to Covid, he did have the opportunity to have let Metro know, otherwise Im 
not clear how else Metro would have been expected to know this. 
Although Mr K says other lenders have been sympathetic to his situation, such decisions are 
taken on an individual basis and its not my role to tell Metro it must adopt the same 
approach. More importantly it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Metro it must remove the missed 
payment marker in May 2020, given it has a responsibility to accurately report its customers 
account activity and Im satisfied it did that here. Afterall it has shown Mr K some degree of 
support by not reporting June 2020s missed payment which it had no obligation to do.
So while I do have some sympathy with Mr Ks situation here, I cant say Metro have made 
any mistakes or that it must now remove the missed payment marker as an act of goodwill. 
I understand that Metro have accepted it could have dealt with processing Mr Ks complaint 
more efficiently and called him back when it promised to. Metro have offered Mr K £50 by 
way of apology which I feel is fair and I will leave it with Mr K to contact Metro if he now wishes to accept this. 
While I understand Mr K feels this missed payment marker will affect his ability to obtain 
mortgage funding, Im not fully persuaded by his argument. In any event, as I have said, Im 
satisfied Metro havent done anything wrong here, and even so, Mr K hasnt provided any 
evidence to show his ability to obtain funding has been affected by it. 
Its worth saying that one missed payment marker on a credit file wouldnt necessarily be the 
sole reason why any lending request might be declined, given other criteria is taken into 
account before a lender agrees to any funding. 
While Mr K feels strongly about this matter, I dont propose to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I have already provided, and I wont be asking anymore of Metro.  
Metro have accepted my provisional decision, but Mr K didnt agree, he felt a missed 
payment marker would affect his credit and furthermore he believes Metro, should have 
been more supportive given he was struggling at the time due to the Covid pandemic and 
the credit card account wasnt a top priority of his at that time. 
Given this, the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr K and Metro until 8 July 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Metro have accepted my provisional decision, but Mr K didnt agree and provided further 
comments for me to consider. 
I can understand Mr K feels strongly about this matter and I have considered his objections 
to my provisional decision. 
With regards to the impact of the missed payment marker on Mr Ks ability to obtain credit is 
concerned, what Im saying here is no evidence has been provided by him to suggest he has 
been rejected for any further lending as a direct result of this or financially disadvantaged by 
it. To explain, I wasnt convinced one missed payment marker would be the sole reason for 
any lender not to provide further credit, as lenders take into account various criteria before 
making lending decisions, and at what level that lending is priced at. But in any event as 
explained in my provisional decision, Metro acted correctly when it registered the missed 
payment in May 2020. 
Mr K feels Metro could have shown more sympathy to his situation, given the Covid 
backdrop and that the credit card account wasnt a top priority of his given he was trying to 
keep afloat at that time. While as I said in my provisional decision, I do have sympathy with 
Mr Ks situation, Metro werent made aware of his financial situation until sometime after the 
missed payment marker was registered and it remains Mr Ks responsibility to ensure his 
monthly minimum payments are made on time or if he couldnt do that, to let Metro know 
why. Even though Mr K may not agree, he was clearly given notice of the consequences of 
missing a payment to his credit card account, in his credit card statement, so he did have the 
opportunity to contact Metro at that time. 
While I can see Mr K feels Metro could have agreed to remove the May 2020 missed 
payment when he rang them in July 2020, it did agree not to mark the June 2020 missed 
payment. So, Metro did show some forbearance here, but its not for me to tell Metro it must retrospectively remove further missed payments. I say this as all lenders have a 
responsibility to accurately report its customers account conduct to the relevant credit 
reference agencies.
Having considered Mr Ks comments, I cant say this changes my original provisional 
decision and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman