DRN-2421345
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
In February 2017 Mrs R fell victim to a scam. 
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Mrs R was contacted by a longstanding family friend, who Ill refer to as Ms G, regarding a 
property investment opportunity abroad. Mrs R had previously sent money to Ms G to help 
her out, when Ms G was going through a divorce and was in financial difficulties.  Mrs R has 
told us that shed met Ms G at school 30 years before and they were good friends. 
Mrs R has said her friend told her she was working for a family and an opportunity to 
purchase a property had come up  but as Brexit was approaching, the window of 
opportunity to invest may close. Ms G told Mrs R there was the potential for her investment 
to be doubled within 3 to 6 months. Mrs R was persuaded to invest in the property and made 
an initial investment of £1,750 on 20 February 2017, through her online banking.
Mrs R spoke with some of her other friends about the investment and they were also 
interested in investing. The money Mrs Rs friends wanted to invest was initially paid into Mrs 
Rs account, who then transferred the money to Ms G.  A further four payments were made 
by Mrs R to Ms G, up to 13 March 2017.
In May 2017 Ms G did return some money to Mrs R.  This was sent from Ms Gs daughters 
account and appeared to be for more than the amount that had been invested at that point.  
Given they had received some money back, at what appeared to be a profit, Mrs G, and her 
friends, were persuaded to send further payments.  These funds were sent to Ms Gs 
daughters account, as Ms G had told Mrs R this was necessary due to ongoing issues she 
was having with her ex-husband.  In total a further five payments were made between 17 
May 2017 and 24 May 2017 to the value of just over £24,000.
Following these payments, Ms G returned a further £800 to Mrs R. This money came from 
Ms Gs daughters account. 
Communication from Ms G became less frequent after this. Mrs R has told us she invited Ms 
G to various meetings to discuss the money, but Ms G would either not attend or cancel at 
the last minute.  Mrs R has also told us Ms G also stopped attending social events she had 
organised as well. Mrs R has said when she questioned the investments, she would not 
receive an answer or would receive excuses  one being that due to a tax issue a further 
£200 was needed, which Mrs R paid in February 2018.
A breakdown of the payments made in respect of the scam and the credits received is 
detailed below:
Date Type of transaction Amount
20/2/2017 Online transfer to Ms G £1,750
21/2/2017 Online transfer to Ms G £270
6/3/2017 Online transfer to Ms G £160
8/3/2017 Online transfer to Ms G £510
13/3/2017 Online transfer to Ms G £2,200
5/5/2017 Credit transfer from Ms Gs daughters account £1
5/5/2017 Credit transfer from Ms Gs daughters account £4,810
16/5/2017 Credit transfer from Ms Gs daughters account £4,310
17/5/2017 online transfer to Ms Gs daughters account £1
18/5/2017 online transfer to Ms Gs daughters account £10,000
19/5/2017 online transfer to Ms Gs daughters account £10,000
19/5/2017 online transfer to Ms Gs daughters account £1,500
24/5/2017 online transfer to Ms Gs daughters account £2,500
24/5/2017 online transfer to Ms Gs daughters account £800
15/2/2018 online transfer to Ms Gs sons account £200
The two payments of £10,000, in May 2017, were blocked by Lloyds and following a 
conversation they were released, when Mrs R confirmed them to be genuine. 
Mrs R was able to meet with Ms G in July 2018.  Mrs R has said she was told ongoing 
issues had been resolved and the money would be repaid soon. When Mrs R, and her 
friends who had also invested, hadnt heard any more by September 2018 they wrote to Ms 
G. No response was received to this letter and so Mrs R reported the matter to Action Fraud. 
Mrs R complained to Lloyds and it issued its final response on 19 July 2019. It said that it felt 
every possible measure had been taken to try and recover Mrs Rs money from the 
beneficiary banks, but no funds remained. 
Mrs R then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds could have done anything to prevent the scam. 
She thought that the initial payments Mrs R had made, were not so abnormal that she would 
have expected Lloyds to have intervened. Our investigator did think when Lloyds spoke to 
Mrs R about the two payments for £10,000 it could have asked more questions, but even if it 
had, she didnt think, due to the deep level of trust she thinks Mrs R would have had in Ms 
G, it would have been enough to break the spell and stop Mrs R from progressing with 
payments. Overall she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs R didnt accept our investigators view. She thinks the bank should be liable as it didnt 
ask enough questions and the nature of the relationship shouldnt pre-determine what a 
consumer may do.  Shes said, as it wasnt all her money, she would have taken care.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs R, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Lloydss actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to 
leave Mrs Rs account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and 
recover the money.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should 
reimburse her the money she has unfortunately lost. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer.
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs R, when Mrs R made transfers to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.Mrs R has accepted that she authorised the transfers herself. Because of this, Lloyds had an 
obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mrs Rs account activity for the six-month period leading up to the scam I 
can see Mrs R had made other transactions for amounts in excess of £600 (ranging up to 
over £1,500). So I dont think the first five payments Mrs R made to Ms G, of between £160 
and £2,200, were so out of character or unusual, compared with how the account was 
typically run, that I could fairly have expected Lloyds to have made enquiries about the 
payments before processing them. 
Where Mrs R went on to make the first transfer of £10,000, considering how the account was 
typically being run I do think this payment ought to have appeared as unusual and not typical 
of the usual account activity.  With this I would have expected Lloyds to have intervened.  I 
can see that Lloyds did intervene and it had a conversation with Mrs R before allowing the 
two transfers of £10,000 to be made.
Ive listened to this call and I dont think the questions Lloyds asked went far enough. Mrs R 
was warned that if this was a scam she may not get her money back. But I dont think the 
questioning was specific enough in the context of the payments she was intending to make.  
Mrs R hadnt been coached in what to say, which is often the case with scams, so I think she 
would have spoken freely and I think it more likely than not she would have told Lloyds the 
transfers were for an investment.
With this information I think Lloyds could have asked further questions, such as, but not 
limited to, how shed heard of the investment, was she called out of the blue and what return 
had she been promised?  Had Lloyds asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Mrs 
R would have been able to give plausible and persuasive answers to the bank. She would 
have been able to explain that she had known the person for over 30 years, was a close 
family friend and that she had sent a number of payments previously and had received some 
money back.
I think the rate of return Mrs R had been promised would likely have appeared high to 
Lloyds, but at this point Mrs R had received a return, following earlier investments, which 
appeared considerably more than the payments that had been made. Overall, Im 
persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Mrs R would have given, would 
have been sufficient to fairly and reasonably reassure Lloyds Mrs R wasnt at risk of financial 
harm.
Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds did what it shouldve done once Mrs R reported to 
them that shed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Lloyds made to 
recover the money, once Mrs R reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask 
Lloyds to refund the money to Mrs R, I need to be satisfied that Lloyds should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference. 
In this case I can see Lloyds raised the claim against the receiving bank when Mrs R 
reported it, but sadly no money remained, because it had already been removed from the 
recipients account. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded there was no opportunity for Lloyds 
to recover any of the money Mrs R had lost. 
Its very unfortunate Mrs R has lost this money in such a cruel way to somebody she 
appears to have had a great deal of trust in, and I understand the whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say 
Lloyds should have done more to prevent her losing this money. So I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman