DRN-2541419
The complaint
 Mrs K complains she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should take 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision although it didnt actually sell the PPI.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs K took out in 1996. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card in store.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. They said Mrs K had 
a pre-existing medical condition and that she would have found it difficult to claim 
benefit if needed for this. They added that if AXA had made this clearer to Mrs K, she 
most likely wouldnt have taken the policy. AXA disagreed with this and her complaint 
was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued my first provisional decision on 1 October 2020. I initially didnt uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint. I concluded that Mrs K took medication for her condition and so wasnt affected 
by it day to day. So, I wasnt persuaded clearer information would have made a different 
decision by Mrs K to take the PPI policy. I also felt Mrs K was given an option to have the 
policy and wouldve gone ahead with the policy anyway even if she was given clear 
information about it.
Mrs K replied to my first provisional decision. She pointed to a submission she made about 
her medical condition and the information she provided about it. Within this submission, 
she said her condition is a chronic illness where she has had to receive treatment for it on 
an ongoing basis. She also added that it was her experience that she had to take PPI and 
had no option to say no to having it.
I issued a second provisional decision on 28 December 2020. I concluded after considering 
all of the evidence again, that the policy terms meant Mrs K most likely wouldnt have been 
able to claim for her medical condition. I also found that I had not seen enough information 
that AXA had brought the relevant terms to Mrs Ks attention. If it had done so, I concluded 
Mrs K would have most likely declined the policy. So, I felt the policy had been mis-sold. I 
gave both parties until 27 January 2021 to reply to my second provisional decision.
AXA on this occasion have not responded. Mrs K responded on 28 December 2020 and 
said she had nothing further to add.
Now that the deadline has passed, I have looked at the evidence again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.
As AXA have not responded and Mrs K has nothing further to add, I do not need to 
reconsider my findings given in my second provisional decision issued on 28 December 
2020. 
So, it follows that I find that Mrs Ks lost out because of how AXA sold her the PPI. 
That being the case, I believe it should put things right for her as explained below.
Putting things right
  AXA should put Mrs K in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs K would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs K owed when 
she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs K would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs K would have owed each month without PPI
 Mrs K paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mrs K paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs K would have owed AXA something on her 
store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs K what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
  I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct AXA France IARD to put things right as I have 
described above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman