DRN-3901709
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) he was charge when he repaid 
his mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS). He doesnt consider it was 
fair for the ERC to be charged. This was due to the amount of interest that would have been 
paid over the remaining term of the interest rate product, and the reason he was having to 
sell his home  to cater for the needs of an elderly relative. In addition, Mr S believes that the 
annual overpayment allowance should have been factored in when the ERC was calculated. 
Mr S has also questioned that he was charged an additional £183.62 when he paid the 
mortgage off, which he believes is a further charge. 
Mr S mortgage was originally taken out with another lender, but BoS is now responsible for 
it and so I will refer to it throughout.
What happened
Mr S took out his mortgage in 2017. Attached to the mortgage was an interest rate product 
that had a term due to end on 30 April 2022. If the mortgage was repaid before the end of 
the interest rate product term, an ERC was payable. The ERC was calculated on a sliding 
scale and if the mortgage was repaid between 1 May 2021 and 30 April 2022 a charge of 2% 
of the amount repaid would be applied. Overpayments of up to 20% of the annual starting 
balance were allowed to be made during each mortgage year without an ERC being 
incurred.
Mr S approached BoS before his sale went through to ask that the ERC be reduced or 
waived, due to the circumstances that led to the need to sell the property. BoS declined to 
do so and Mr S complained. 
BoS responded to Mr S complaint on 3 November 2021. It highlighted that Mr S had been 
aware of the potential of an ERC when he accepted the mortgage offer. As such, it didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with BoS response and referred his complaint to us. He told us that he 
needed to move in order to facilitate the needs of an elderly relative.
When BoS provided us with evidence relating to the ERC and the complaint, it confirmed 
that the £183.62 Mr S had questioned was not an additional charge. Rather, following it 
taking over Mr S mortgage, it had transferred Mr S mortgage to its own computer system. 
That process changed how interest was calculated slightly. The original lender had 
calculated interest from payment date to payment date, whereas BoS calculates interest by 
calendar month. This meant that there was the period between the payment date in the 
month the change happened and the end of that month, that the monthly payments wouldnt 
cover. Accountholders were given the option of either paying the interest for that period at 
that time or defer it (interest free) to when the mortgage was eventually repaid. The £183.62 
Mr S questioned was this additional interest. BoS provided us with a copy of the letter sent to 
Mr S in November 2020 that explained this and told him how much the additional interest 
was.
One of our investigators considered Mr S complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained the purpose of an ERC and that the cost to a lender was not just the 
interest it didnt receive. He didnt consider it was unreasonable that the ERC was applied 
when the mortgage was repaid. The investigator was also satisfied that the overpayment 
allowance shouldnt have been taken into account, as an overpayment wasnt being made. 
The investigator also provided Mr S with the above explanation about the additional interest 
payment.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and said that he thought the mortgage 
contract would be considered unfair under the Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999, in 
that BoS was requiring any consumer who fails to fulfil his obligations to pay a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation. Mr S also said that he didnt believe that the 
cost to BoS of him repaying the mortgage early was any different from the amount it would 
have made from him if he had maintained the mortgage to the end of the product term. In 
addition he thought BoS would use the money he had paid it when he paid the mortgage off 
to reinvest, and so would have made money on the early repayment, thereby reducing the 
cost to BoS further. He didnt think it was fair that the 2% charge would be applied no matter 
when in the year the mortgage was repaid.
The investigator considered Mr S further comments, and there were further exchanges 
about the ERC being charged and the reasonableness of its amount. It was also explained 
that while this service took the law into account, our remit took into account regulations, 
guidance and good practice too. It was explained that mortgage regulation allowed for an 
ERC to be charged and confirmed how it could be calculated. The investigator confirmed 
that he had seen information about how the ERC had been calculated, and he was satisfied 
the amount was a reasonable pre-estimate. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was 
decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman.
During the discussions of his complaint with the investigator, Mr S raised a new complaint 
issue  that he had not been made aware of the interest situation when his mortgage was 
moved onto BoS computer system in 2020. The investigator explained that as this was a 
new complaint point, Mr S would need to refer it to BoS before we could become involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly reiterate our investigators comment about the new complaint issue Mr S 
raised about interest. Before this service can become involved, Mr S would need to raise the 
complaint with BoS and give it the opportunity to respond. 
I would explain that the base line lending rate associated with a mortgage is the lenders 
standard variable rate (SVR). Usually the SVR doesnt have any ERCs linked to it. However, 
it is a variable rate that can be either higher or lower than special rates a lender might have 
on offer, so its not suited to customers who might prefer to fix their mortgage rate to provide 
security against future rate changes. 
Any special fixed rate that becomes available is obtained in addition to a standard mortgage 
contract, and a lender usually has to find ways to fund the product in order to make it 
available. I would explain that in order to do so, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money 
for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included 
in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to 
them of consumers repaying borrowing early. Its complex and onerous for lenders to 
calculate individual losses as and when individual customers decide to terminate their 
contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate in advance, for any given individual, when or 
if they might do so. So ERCs are more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group 
of mortgages (of a similar type). In relation to early repayment it is factored in based on a 
projection of how many customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, 
at what point theyre likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the 
group. The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils a lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr S before the 
mortgage was advanced. He accepted that offer and the ERC that was associated with it, 
even if he thought, at the time, it was unlikely he would have to incur it. So Ive considered 
whether the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid 
early. 
Mr S considers the ERC is unfair because it was more than the amount of interest that would 
have been paid to BoS over the remaining term of the interest rate product. As I have 
explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC is 
calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by BoS if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the 
evidence of the calculations, and although it cant be made publicly available as its 
commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was 
a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
As for Mr S thinking that the overpayment allowance should have been taken into account 
when the ERC was calculated, I cant agree. The mortgage conditions allow for 
overpayments to be made without an ERC being paid. However, Mr S didnt make 
overpayments and wasnt asking to do so. So I dont think BoS should have taken the 
overpayment allowance into account when calculating the ERC when the mortgage was 
completely repaid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
2 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman