DRN-1670465
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc was irresponsible in offering him a loan 
for £7,000. He says this made his financial situation worse and hed now like to be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience this caused.
What happened
In May 2017 Mr M applied to RBS for an overdraft of £7,00. This was declined but a few 
months later, in November, RBS approved Mr Ms application for a personal loan for the 
same amount.
Towards the ends of 2018 Mr M got into difficulties with his repayments due a drop in his 
income. He applied to RBS for another loan but this was declined. Mr M says he then 
contacted RBS to see if he could agree a repayment plan but didnt agree to this. As a result, 
he had to default on his debts and enter into a Trust Deed.
Mr M feels RBS was irresponsible to agree to his loan application. He says he had a poor 
credit score at that time -as he did when he applied for an overdraft  and it should have 
been clear he couldnt afford it.
Hes also unhappy that RBS refused to agree a repayment plan or to offer him any other 
assistance when he was having trouble in meeting the repayments. He thinks this was 
unreasonable and not in line with what it says it will offer.
Mr M says that having this loan made his financial situation worse. Hed now like RBS to 
compensate him for the stress and upset hes had as a result of its decision.
RBS disagreed and said it had carried out a full check at the time of Mr Ms loan application. 
This included looking at a range of information including the Mr Ms credit file, his application 
and other relevant financial information. It noted what Mr M had said about his credit score at 
that time but noted that it didnt get to see the actual make up of Mr Ms credit file, only an 
indication of whether the application had been approved or declined or referred for further 
information. It considered this was reasonable.
.
With regard to the two applications, it said overdrafts and loans had different criteria so it 
didnt feel the two decisions were incompatible. But it felt that overdrafts were essentially a 
temporary facility for short term advances and that larger borrowing- as in Mr Ms case- was 
better dealt with through a more structured arrangement such as a personal loan.
RBS said it had tried to help Mr M when he contacted it in December 2018 but after going 
through his income and expenditure it was clear his outgoings were higher than his income. 
As a result, it wasnt possible to agree a repayment plan and felt this would only have made 
matter worse in the long run.
In an initial view issued in January 2021, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
She felt RBS had carried out reasonable checks and the reason Mr M had fallen behind with 
his payments was due to his injury which had reduced his work and his income.
In a second view issued in March, our investigator noted that RBS hadnt been able to show 
it had personally checked Mr Ms credit file and for that reason, she wasnt satisfied it had 
carried out reasonable checks before approving the loan. Having said that she didnt feel its 
decision would have been different even it had done this. The information that was available 
didnt suggest Mr M was having any financial problems at the time the loan was offered and 
this was supported by the fact he hadnt got into financial difficulties until almost a year after 
the loan was approved. In the circumstances she wouldnt be asking RBS to do anything 
more.
Mr M disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr M is hoping for but, having done so, I wont be asking RBS 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint as Ill now explain.
RBS like all lenders must make sure that any lending it offer is affordable. That doesnt just 
mean asking if the borrower can repay the loan but if it can do so in a sustainable way. 
Theres no specific list of checks that a lender must carry out however and the number and 
nature of the checks will depend on the amount of any borrowing and its purpose. The key 
point is that they must be proportionate and, in general, the larger the amount being 
borrowed the more detailed the checks will be. 
In this case RBS has said it carried out a full credit on Mr Ms application. But as its 
explained, this didnt mean that it got to see the full credit report. Instead, there was a 
systems-based assessment that determined whether the application was approved (with or 
without further checks) or declined. 
And while RBS didnt get to see the full credit file, it seems clear that the full range of 
information was taken into account as it referred Mr Ms application back for more 
information. That does suggest that there was a checking process in place and that each 
application as assessed individually.
I know Mr M doesnt feel this is adequate but the way that RBS manages its systems is a 
commercial decision for the bank. What I have done however is to consider whether the 
checks it carried out were reasonable and whether it could be satisfied the loan was 
affordable at the time it was offered.
Mr M has said that if RBS had checked his actual credit file, it would have seen that he had a 
low credit score and this would have shown that the loan was unaffordable. Unfortunately, 
neither RBS or Mr M have been able to provide a copy of his credit file in 2017 but I dont 
see any reason not to accept what Mr M says about his credit score at this time. 
But while Id agree that the borrowers credit score is relevant, a low credit score in itself 
wont necessarily mean an application should be rejected. Thats because lenders can look 
at a range of information when assessing an application, including the borrowers credit 
status, the application form and any other relevant information. In his application Mr M had 
stated that he was in full time employment with a regular salary and that his outgoings were 
low. Further his current account didnt show any problems to suggest he was having 
financial problems as it was in credit and being managed appropriately. On that basis, even if RBS had seen Mr Ms full credit file, I think it probable it would have approved the 
application.
In the circumstances I cant reasonably agree the decision to lend to Mr M was irresponsible 
or that the loan was unaffordable. Thats also supported by the fact that Mr M maintained his 
current account and his loan repayments for over twelve months after the loan was issued 
before falling into difficulties.
Ive seen Mr M considers RBS decision to approve this loan was illogical bearing in mind it 
had refused an overdraft application for the same amount a few months earlier. But different 
products will have different criteria depending on their purpose and for that reason I dont 
think the fact RBS had declined to offer an overdraft should automatically mean it also had to 
refuse the application for a loan. An overdraft is usually a temporary measure to provide 
short term funds and for that reason, its generally at a higher rate than a fixed term loan and 
more subject to change. And as RBS has said, an overdraft for such a large amount would 
usually only be approved where the customer could show they would be receiving funds in 
the very near future to cover the debt. That wasnt the position in Mr Ms case so the 
application was refused. I can understand how disappointing that was for Mr M but in the 
circumstances, I cant agree it was unreasonable. Or that this means the later loan 
application should also have been declined.
Ive seen that its not just the loan that Mr M is unhappy about but the way that RBS 
responded when he told it about his financial problems. Mr M contacted RBS to explain that 
his income had fallen as a result of an injury that meant he had to reduce his hours. But he 
feels RBS was unsympathetic and unhelpful and effectively forced him into a debt 
management plan with his creditors. This was clearly a difficult time for Mr M so I can 
understand why he felt so disappointed when RBS said it couldnt help.  
When a customer has financial problems, Id expect the business to respond positively and 
sympathetically. But it also has to make sure that any steps it takes will offer real help to the 
customer and not make matters worse.
Ive seen Mr M was keen to arrange a repayment plan to reduce the monthly payments. But 
in order to do this, the customer has to be able to show that once the repayment plan has 
ended, theyll be able to afford the arrears as well as the usual repayments going forward. 
Ive seen that when RBS discussed his income and expenditure with RBS, it was clear that 
his outgoings were significantly higher than his income so I cant reasonably say RBS was 
wrong to decide this wouldnt be appropriate.
I know this isnt the decision Mr M was hoping for but for the reasons given, I dont consider 
RBS was irresponsible in offering the loan to Mr M in November 2017. The evidence is that 
Mr M didnt get into difficulties with his repayments until the end of 2018 and that up until 
then, hed been managing his loan as expected. Looking at the information available, I dont 
consider it was the loan that was responsible for this but the injury he suffered that reduced 
his income and which, in turn, impacted on his ability to meet his outgoings. I wont therefore 
be asking RBS to take any further action with regard to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman