DRN-3826057
The complaint
Mr P complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money was irresponsible in 
its lending to him.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr P was provided with credit card by 118 118 Money with a credit limit of 
£1,200. There were no increases to the credit limit. Mr P says that adequate checks werent 
carried out before the credit card account was provided. He says he had he had a county 
court judgement outstanding at the time and was behind on his other credit card payments.
118 118 Money says that Mr P applied for a credit card through its website and as part of the 
application process was asked about his income, expenditure and employment. It says the 
information received was assessed against its scorecard and it used industry standard 
verification checks to validate the information. 118 118 Money says Mr P confirmed that the 
lending was affordable.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that Mr Ps credit file showed several 
missed payments and a county court judgement from July 2019. He thought that further 
information about Mr Ps circumstances should have been gathered before the lending was 
agreed.
118 118 Money didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it had provided a copy of its 
credit check results and it noted that Mr P did have some small defaults recorded but said 
these were for low amounts.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing the credit card, 118 118 Money carried out a credit check and asked 
Mr P about his income, expenditure and employment. I thought the credit check 
results should have raised concerns. Mr P had several defaults and while the 
defaults were historic there were still defaulted accounts outstanding. Mr P also had 
a county court judgement recorded in July 2019. That said, more recent data showed 
Mr P was generally managing his accounts and while he did have another credit card 
at the time with a credit limit of £1,000 his balance was just under £600.
As I thought the credit check raised concerns, I thought it would have been 
reasonable for further checks to take to ensure 118 118 Money had a clear 
understanding of Mr Ps financial circumstances at the time.
I considered the income and expenditure information 118 118 Money gathered and 
that it said it undertook standard verification checks. I hadnt seen evidence of any 
verification that took place and, given Mr Ps previous issues, I thought it would have 
been reasonable to verify Mr Ps income and to ask about his expenses to ensure 
that the credit limit was affordable.
In the absence of anything else, I placed significant weight on the information 
contained in Mr Ps statements as an indication of what would most likely have seen 
by 118 118 Money through its verification of Mr Ps income and had it asked about 
his expenses.
I reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. These confirmed 
Mr Ps monthly income as averaging around £1,550 which was in line with the 
amount 118 118 Money used in its assessment. The statements showed that Mr Ps 
regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,150. In calculating 
this figure, I included costs such as his rent, utility bills, credit commitments, food and 
transport. Based on Mr Ps income of around £1,550 this would leave Mr P with 
around £400. Considering the credit limit of £1,200 I didnt think this would suggest 
the lending was unaffordable.
Mr P didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said that his complaint was not to erase 
his debt, but that 118 118 Money refused to set up a payment plan. He said he would set up 
a payment plan with 118 118 Money but would not deal with a debt collector.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P raised a complaint about irresponsible lending. As I set out in my provisional decision, I 
think it would have been reasonable for 118 118 Money to have carried out further checks 
given Mr Ps credit history, to ensure the lending was affordable. However, based on the 
information received I found that had these further checks taken place they wouldnt have 
shown the lending to have been unaffordable.
I note Mr Ps response to my provisional decision but in this case as his complaint was about 
irresponsible lending this is what I have considered in this decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman