DRN-3128157
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around April 2017, Mrs H was contacted by a representative acting on behalf of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at her home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs H decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mrs Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
Mrs H was told by the salesperson that the system would generate free electricity 
and she would derive an income from the Feed-In-Tariff (FIT) payments,
the system would be self-funding, by virtue of the FIT payments and electricity 
savings, 
Mrs H had been pressurised into signing the agreement and purchasing the solar 
panel system,
on this basis Mrs H agreed to purchase the system at a cost of £9,250.00, but due to 
the loan agreement the real cost of the system is £17,570.80,
the salesperson failed to explain the full cost and impact of the interest associated 
with the loan agreement to Mrs H,
the salesperson lead Mrs H to believe that the system would be self-funding and it 
would generate enough from the feed-in tariff to pay the monthly finance re-
payments off in a period of less than 10 years,
Shawbrook failed to carry out a credit assessment prior to granting the loan to Mrs H,
the system is massively underperforming and
since the installation of the system, Mrs Hs electricity bills have increased.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mrs H and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations made 
about the systems expected performance.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
While Shawbrook didnt think the complaint should be upheld, it did make an offer of £200.00 
compensation for the length of time taken to issue a response to Mrs Hs complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. During our investigation 
Shawbrook provided a copy of the quotation document and loan agreement provided to Mrs 
H. Having considered all the information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think 
that P had misrepresented the system to Mrs H and found no reason to uphold the 
complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs H could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement,
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement,(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged misrepresentations 
made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Hs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Mrs H has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,250.00. She has 
suggested that this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £17.570.80.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs H makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£9,250.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of 
the system was £9,250.00. Mrs H paid an advance payment of £100.00, so the total amount 
of credit is £9,150.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£17,570.80.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,250.00, it would cost 
Mrs H more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mrs H have alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mrs H has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £91.90.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £165.22 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chose by Mrs ,H the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £620.00. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £97.77. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £97.77, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs H that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
Page 12 of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows that 
by year 17 the overall benefits that Mrs H could expect to receive would have exceeded the 
total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 17, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs H. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 1,414.88 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Hs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 1,721.71 kWh a year up to 17 September 2018. This is more than estimated by P 
at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs H 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs H entered into the 
contract.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under the Act.
Credit Assessment
Shawbrook have addressed this aspect within their final response to Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having completed my investigation, Im satisfied that there isnt any information to support 
the allegation that proportionate credit checks and assessments werent completed. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
And I think Shawbrooks offer of £200.00 compensation for the length of time taken to issue 
its response to Mrs H is fair under the circumstances. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022. 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman