DRN-3870699
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund money she lost to an 
investment scam.
Miss A is being represented by a claims management company in bringing this complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns two faster payment transactions  £2,000 and £13,000  which 
Miss A sent from her Barclays account in February 2022 in connection with an investment 
opportunity. She sent the funds to an account in her name with another payment service 
provider, before depositing them in her trading account with a firm which she later realised 
was a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Miss A 
made the payments using her security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
The payments Miss A made werent sent directly from her bank account to the 
scammer. Both payments were made via another account in her name with an 
electronic money institution which I understand she had control over. Under these 
circumstances, the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code), which requires signatories such as Barclays to reimburse 
customers who are victims of scams like this one in all but a limited number of 
circumstances, doesnt apply.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the 
relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the 
law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
Ive looked at the operation of Miss As account. I dont consider the first disputed 
transaction (£2,000) was particularly unusual or suspicious such that I think Barclays 
ought to have challenged that payment. But the second transaction (£13,000) on the 
same day was unusual for the account activity and, as I would expect it to, Barclays 
paused the payment pending further enquiries. 
The banks system notes from the time show that Miss A was asked to call back to 
discuss the payment. And that concerns remained when she said the three £5,000 
credits which shed recently received were being sent to one of her accounts with 
another financial institution to pay for home improvements and a car purchase. 
Barclays restricted Miss As online banking and asked her to visit a branch with 
identification for further verification. She did this the next day and confirmed that the 
explanation shed given the agent was true; that she knew about the credits and was 
transferring the funds to one of her accounts elsewhere to use them for different 
purposes. Following this, Barclays reinstated Miss As online banking and a 
subsequent payment attempt was duly executed. 
Miss As representative submits that the banks intervention didnt go far enough in 
this case. They argue that Barclays should have asked detailed questions about what 
improvements she was intending to carry out and asked to see an invoice. They 
believe the scam would have uncovered as Miss A didnt have any further details to 
give or a cover story to provide beyond the payment purpose. I understand the point 
Miss As representative is trying to make. I appreciate that in some situations that line 
of enquiry might seem logical and reasonable. But having reviewed the 
circumstances of this particular case, I dont agree that Barclays ought to have 
questioned Miss A along the lines suggested by her representative. 
The reason I say that is because Miss A wasnt sending money to a third party or, 
unlike a different case which the representative has highlighted, making a cash 
withdrawal. She was sending the money to an account in her name that she had 
control over. I acknowledge its unusual to see credits from three separate lenders in 
quick succession. So, its right that Barclays questioned this when it made enquiries 
about the large payment shed attempted to make. Given the amounts involved and 
in light of what her representative has said about her health, I find that Miss As 
explanation was adequate and entirely plausible. So, I dont think the explanation 
Miss A gave Barclays for why shed borrowed money from other lenders warranted 
further scrutiny as has been suggested. Given the above, Im satisfied that in this 
case the banks intervention went far enough. That means I cant fairly conclude 
Barclays should have done more to limit Miss As loss resulting from the second 
disputed transaction. 
Ive also thought about the recovery of funds once Barclays became aware of the 
situation. Banks are expected to contact the beneficiary bank and attempt to recall 
the payment as soon as theyre notified of a scam. Im satisfied that this is what 
happened here. But as we know, funds had already been removed from the other 
account as part of the scam. Unfortunately, there were no funds left for Barclays to 
recover.      
In summary, despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which Miss A finds herself, 
I dont find that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably. So, I wont be making an award 
against it.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman