DRN-2252291
The complaint
Miss R complains that a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited, 
under which a car was supplied to her, was mis-sold to her. Shes being helped with her 
complaint by her son.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss R under a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial 
Services that she signed in November 2019. The price of the car was £9,533, Miss R paid a 
deposit of £2,550 and agreed to make 60 monthly payments of £143.73 for the car. She 
made some overpayments to RCI Financial Services and her son complained to it in May 
2020 that shed been told by the dealer that overpayments would reduce the number of 
monthly payments and the term of the agreement but were being used to reduce the amount 
of her monthly payments with the term of the agreement remaining the same. 
RCI Financial Services said that Miss R was made aware of the rules regarding additional 
payments prior to signing the agreement so didnt uphold her complaint. Miss R wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator thought that RCI 
Financial Services did enough to make Miss R aware of the agreement that she was 
entering into and he wasnt satisfied that the agreement was mis-sold to her.
Miss R has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss R signed the pre-contract credit information and the hire purchase agreement in 
November 2019 and agreed to make 60 monthly payments of £143.73 for the car to 
be supplied to her;
the terms of the agreement said: If you make a part repayment in accordance with 
section 94 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, unless we decide otherwise, we shall 
recalculate your monthly instalments over the remaining term of the agreement;
there was no provision in the agreement to says that it would use any part 
repayments to reduce the term of the agreement;
Miss R says that the dealer said that part repayments would reduce the term of the 
agreement but the dealer says that its sales staff are well versed on the features of 
the finance products that it offers and wouldnt advise that part payments would 
reduce the term;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the dealer gave Miss R 
incorrect information about the agreement and shed agreed to be legally bound by 
the terms of the agreement that she signed;
the agreement also sets out the basis on which an early repayment can be made;
RCI Financial Services has used the overpayments that have been made by Miss R 
to reduce the amount of her monthly payments  and I consider that it has acted 
fairly and reasonably in doing so;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the agreement was mis-
sold to Miss R or that RCI Financial Services has acted incorrectly in the way that it 
has dealt with her overpayments - so I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to use those overpayments to reduce the number of 
repayments that she has to make and the term of the agreement; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
RCI Financial Services to pay any compensation to Miss R or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman