DRN-4365557
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) wont refund the money they say they 
lost to a scam. 
As it was Mrs A who made the payments now in question here, in the main, I will refer to her 
throughout this decision even though the payments were made from Mr and Mrs As joint 
account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 to explain why I thought Mr and Mrs As 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give 
me before proceeding with my final decision. 
This is an extract from my provisional decision:
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs A decided to build an extension on their home. Mrs A says she 
received a recommendation for a builder from her cousin. Mrs As cousin said the builder in 
question had completed an extension on their neighbours house and they were very happy 
with the quality of the work completed. Mrs As cousin also sent her pictures of the 
extension. Mrs A then approached the builder and asked if he would attend her property and 
provide her with a quote.
During the builders visit to Mr and Mrs As property, a hand-written note was drawn up as to 
the work that needed to be completed and the builder provided Mr and Mrs A with a quote in 
order to complete the works.
Mr and Mrs A decided to employ the builder and the following payments were made to him 
between August and December 2021:
Date Activity Amount
30/08/2021 Bank transfer £10,000
02/09/2021 Bank transfer £10,000
04/10/2021 Bank transfer £19,000
10/11/2021 Bank transfer £10,000
13/11/2021 £2,000
30/11/2021 Bank transfer £10,000
17/12/2021 Bank transfer £2,000
20/12/2021 Bank transfer £3,000
Total £66,000
The builder told Mr and Mrs A that the majority of the above payments were needed for 
building supplies and for paying his workmen. But Mrs A says that the builder and his teams 
attendance at her property was sporadic from the outset and he and his workmen often 
failed to show when they said they would. At one point, Mrs A says the builder told her that 
he had used some of the money she had paid him to pay for his mothers healthcare abroad. 
Despite this, between September and December 2021, foundations were laid and some 
walls and a partial roof were erected. Whilst acknowledging this and the fact that materials 
had been purchased, Mrs A says the amount of labour/materials didnt equate to the amount 
she had paid.
A Building Control Surveyor came to inspect the work that had been carried out on the
property on 15 December 2021. They pointed out that the work carried out to date was sub- 
standard and wasnt compliant with the relevant building regulations. They said the builder 
would need to carry out extensive remedial action before the work could be completed to a 
satisfactory standard. However, by the end of December 2021, all contact with the builder 
had ceased and Mrs A was forced to engage another builder to complete the job at a cost of 
a further £55,000.
Mr and Mrs A then reported what had happened to Lloyds, Trading Standards and the 
police. The police directed Mr and Mrs A to Trading Standards but ultimately, they werent 
able to locate the builder or take any further action.
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs A werent eligible for a refund under the relevant regulations as it 
didnt think they had been the victim of a scam. It said it thought this was more likely a 
private civil dispute between Mr and Mrs A and their builder. To support this, Lloyds said the 
builder and his workmen had attended the property and completed some of the work  just 
not to the correct standards. Lloyds said that this indicated that this was a dispute as to the 
quality of the work completed.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service and 
one of our investigators looked into things. Our investigator recommended the complaint be 
upheld. In summary, she thought that what had happened to Mr and Mrs A was most likely a 
scam and she said Lloyds should refund Mr and Mrs A in full under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
Lloyds disagreed and maintained this was in fact a private civil dispute. It stressed that it 
wasnt possible to conclude with any certainty that the builder had, from the start, intended to 
defraud Mr and Mrs A.
As the case could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for them. 
And, whilst Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs A and their home, I dont 
think I can fairly hold Lloyds liable for their loss. This is because not all cases where 
individuals have lost sums of money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. So, whilst I can 
quite understand why Mr and Mrs A feel that they have been scammed, there is a high legal 
threshold or burden of proof for fraud and there are a number of potential reasons (other 
than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship between two parties and for a dispute to 
exist.When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the CRM Code 
which Lloyds has signed up to and which was in force at the time Mrs A made these 
payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. So, Ive thought about whether the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances Mr and Mrs A have set out and whether Lloyds ought to reimburse them 
under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all 
push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Lloyds is of the opinion that Mr and Mrs As circumstances fall into this definition of a private 
civil dispute and I agree that this is most likely the case here. 
Im not persuaded that I can safely say with any certainty, based on what I know and what 
the evidence shows, that Mr and Mrs As builder set out with an intent to defraud them from 
the outset. It seems more likely to me that this is a dispute about a builder failing to complete 
the work agreed, to the agreed standard. And this amounts to a private civil dispute rather 
than a scam. I will explain in more detail below:
Mrs A has provided numerous photographs which show the building work in progress  
including foundations being laid, walls and a partial roof being built. I understand Mr and Mrs 
A are of the opinion that the value of the work completed does not reflect what they paid, 
and they feel the quality of that work was inadequate and unsafe. Whilst this would clearly 
be unacceptable to Mr and Mrs A, this doesnt mean that their circumstances now meet the 
high legal threshold for this to be a scam where I would need to satisfied that it was the 
builders intention to deceive from the start.
In addition to the above, the building inspector report also documents a visit to the site whilst 
the work was on going. The report suggests that foundations appear to have been laid and 
damp course proofing and lintels were in place. So, whist I also acknowledge Mr and Mrs As 
arguments that the work was done poorly or incorrectly and that this is confirmed by the 
building report, that isnt, in and of itself, evidence of this being a scam. In fact, the fact that 
significant work was completed, albeit poorly, suggests the opposite. There wouldve been 
no obvious benefit to the builder in turning up on site over a number of months and 
completing any such work. There would also have been no benefit to him in spending money 
on any labour and materials - it seems more likely that he wouldve taken the money and 
run. And so, the fact that substantial materials were purchased, and significant work carried 
out suggests to me that this wasnt a scam.
Furthermore, the payments made here, took place between August and December 2021 
(around four months in total). Whilst there may have been delays and occasions when the 
builder wasnt on site, there was presumably enough work done during this time to reassure 
Mr and Mrs A that the work would eventually be completed as they continued to make 
further payments.
Most importantly, however, Mr and Mrs A were recommended this builder by their 
neighbours cousin who had recently had an extension built by him and who was very happy 
with the overall outcome. Mr and Mrs A were able to view photographs of this extension too. This doesnt support that the builder was operating a scam, as this suggests that the person 
in question, was, and had been running a legitimate building company and had previously 
successfully completed jobs to a recommendable standard. This rather suggests that 
something seems to have gone wrong here during the building process and that this is a 
private civil dispute between Mr and Mrs A and their builder.
Finally, whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their 
relationship with their bank, the evidence Ive seen, regarding the beneficiary account, 
indicates that the builders account was legitimate and the bank hasnt said it has any 
concerns about how the account was being operated prior to Mr and Mrs A making their 
payments.
Overall, I must make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting 
to operate as a legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the 
building work wasnt completed to the standard expected. I havent seen anything that 
persuaded me that the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mr and 
Mrs A, or that Mr and Mrs A have been the victims of a scam here.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds shouldve done anything else to protect Mr and Mrs 
A. I havent been provided with any evidence that shows me Lloyds provided Mr and Mrs A 
with a scam warning when the payments were made here but Im not going to go into detail 
on this because, given that Im supportive of Lloyds decision to conclude this is a private 
civil dispute, there isnt any basis upon which any further intervention ought reasonably to 
have caused concern with the payment/s. So, I cant fairly criticise Lloyds for not having 
done more in these circumstances.
I know this will be a huge disappointment to Mr and Mrs A  especially as my conclusions 
differ from the Investigators. This is not a decision Ive made lightly. I appreciate how Mr and 
Mrs A feel about this case, and that their property was left unfinished and theyve had to pay 
for another builder to finish the work. I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs A have found 
themselves in, and Im in no way saying they did anything wrong or that they dont have a 
legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont 
think their circumstances meet the high legal bar for this to be a scam and because of this, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for the money they lost.
Overall, Im not currently minded to say the payments Mr and Mrs A made to the builder are 
covered under the CRM code, or that Lloyds should be required to refund the money they 
lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions as I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why:
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed with my findings and had 
nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs A responded to say that they did not agree. They reiterated that they had been 
the victim of a scam and Lloyds had done nothing to protect them. Specifically, they said Lloyds hadnt checked the third-party account where their funds were paid to. They said the 
fact that the builder was now untraceable proved that he had done something wrong and 
that they had evidence to show he had also scammed others. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs A enquired if Lloyds had spoken to any of the other potential victims 
about what had happened to them and if it had contacted the builders bank to check the 
payments going into his account. 
Ill now address each point in turn.
Firstly, when a payment is made via bank transfer, these payments are generally 
instantaneous. It is not possible for the sending bank to check how the receiving account is 
operating before making the payment at their customers request - and there is no obligation 
for it to do so either. However, as I said in my provisional decision, in this particular case, our 
investigator did contact the receiving bank and it had no concerns about how the account 
was being operated. 
I understand that the builder can longer be located and other people have said he has left 
their jobs unfinished to. But this does not mean that Mr and Mrs As circumstances meet the 
high legal threshold for fraud or that the builder set out to defraud them from the outset. As I 
said in my provisional decision, its not possible to say with any certainty what happened 
here and there are a number of possible reasons and/or scenarios as to why work may be 
left unfinished, other than a scam. 
Finally, I have to stress that Lloyds is not conducting an investigation into the actions of Mr 
and Mrs As builder and so there would no requirement for it to speak to anyone else who 
had potentially been affected. If Mr and Mrs A think an investigation into the builders actions 
are required, then the case needs to be reverted to Action Fraud, Trading Standards, or the 
police. This is not the role of their bank. 
For the reasons set out above, Im still of the opinion that this complaint should not be 
upheld and I wont be asking Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman