DRN-3633128
The complaint
Mr P complains that Next Retail Limited (Next), irresponsibly gave him a shopping credit 
account he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr P has complained about unaffordable lending on a shopping credit account that he 
took out with Next. 
In September 2012, Mr P applied for a credit account with Next. He was given an initial 
credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased to £2,000 in January 2014. 
Mr P complained to Next to say that the lending was unaffordable and that Next ought to 
have made a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his 
credit limit.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint as he thought Mr P appeared to have been 
managing his account without getting into difficulty. 
As Mr P didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Based on what Ive seen about this complaint, Ive reached a conclusion thats similar to 
that of our adjudicator. Thats because I dont think Nexts actions have caused Mr P 
financial loss. Ill explain why. 
Prior to providing credit and increased credit to Mr P, Next says it carried out a check  to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Next told us that Mr Ps account was 
assessed on a monthly basis from the credit check information and the credit limit was set 
using that information and its observation of Mr Ps management of the account. 
I agree with our adjudicator that allowing Mr P an opening credit limit of £600 was not 
unreasonable. I say this given that because this initial, relatively modest, credit limit was 
provided when Next had looked into Mr Ps financial situation and also hadnt found any 
recent adverse information on Mr Ps credit file. Its certainly possible that Nexts checks at 
the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient as they might have been. 
But even so, from what Ive seen, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Next to 
think the initial credit limit was unaffordable.
Going forwards, Ive seen that at no time did Mr P allow the amount he owed on the card 
to exceed the opening credit limit, even after hed been granted the increase up to £2,000 
in January 2014. He made monthly payments that were in the main at the level of or 
above the minimum requested. At that point Mr P also didnt appear to have any arrears 
from missed payments or to have incurred any late payment fees. 
Ive seen that Next reduced Mr Ps credit limit in October and then in December 2014 due 
to changes in his credit file information and a late payment. I note that Mr P then paid off 
his outstanding balance over the following four months. 
I agree with our adjudicator that at the time of the credit limit increase it would have been 
sensible for Next to carry out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr Ps financial 
situation was such that he could afford it. However, Ive kept in mind that whether the 
credit limit increase was reasonable or otherwise is something that is less relevant for this 
particular complaint. I say that because financial redress is designed to put someone back 
in the position as if the failing had not happened. In this case, as Ive mentioned above, 
Mr Ps credit usage never exceeded the initial limit of £600. As such, even were I to think 
the later credit increase was unreasonable, there would not be any redress to pay. This is 
because Mr P has suffered no detriment as a result of the actions of Next.   
I see that Mr P sent us some bank statements to review from around the time he was 
given the credit limit increase. Whilst Im grateful for these, it isnt necessary for me to 
consider them in detail given that, as Ive explained, Mr P didnt let the balance on his 
account go over his opening £600 credit limit. 
It follows that I dont make any award as I dont think Mr P was caused any loss or 
material distress or inconvenience as a result of anything Next did after the credit was 
agreed with the initial credit limit. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman