DRN-2313246
The complaint
Mr C complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited cancelled his life and 
critical illness policies on the grounds that he failed to disclose information when he applied 
for cover. 
What happened
Mr C held a decreasing term assurance policy with Legal and General. It started in 
May 2012 and provided £180,000 of cover in the event Mr C died or suffered a listed critical 
illness. 
In September 2019, in anticipation of moving, Mr C cancelled the policy. He said he 
assumed hed take out new cover when his new mortgage started. His last premium was 
taken on 11 September 2019 and cover ended on 10 October 2019.  
Mr C started to experience a range of physical and mental symptoms from the end of 
October 2019. He was diagnosed by his GP with depression at the end of October. In 
November he was admitted to accident and emergency (A&E) twice - once after he lost 
consciousness and a second time when he lost sensation in his arm and leg. 
Mr C said that it was around this time he told his wife hed cancelled his existing policy. 
Mr C and his wife later applied for new cover through their broker, who Ill call Mr R. 
On 9 December 2019 Mr C completed Legal and Generals application. As part of the 
application, Mr C was asked several questions about his health and lifestyle. He disclosed 
on the application that hed undergone a number of hospital investigations after he blacked 
out at work on 31 October 2019, these included an MRS scan, CT scan, ultrasound on neck 
and 24-hour cardio machine scan. He advised he was awaiting results regarding his heart 
but otherwise the investigations had shown no stroke or bleed. He said he hadnt had any 
symptoms since 18 November 2019.  As part of his application Mr C also disclosed that he 
drank on average five alcoholic drinks a week. Because he was awaiting results of his heart 
scan, Legal and General postponed the application until the results were known. 
Mr C submitted a second application to Legal and General, through Mr R, on 
19 December 2019. He disclosed that hed received his results, and nothing had been found. 
He advised hed been discharged with no further treatment required. 
Based on the answers Mr C gave, Legal and General offered him cover but with an 
exclusion for any claims related to a mental, behavioural or functional disorder. Cover 
started on 19 December 2019.  
Mr C continued to experience problems and was admitted to A&E on 9 and 
17 December 2019 because hed lost consciousness. In January 2020 Mr C was diagnosed 
with limbic encephalitis. 
In the meantime, Legal and General carried out a random check on Mr Cs application. It 
explained in the application that it checked around one in ten applications by obtaining 
further information from the applicants GP to check the accuracy of information provided. As 
part of this process, Mr Cs GP had provided information to show Mr C had been drinking 
significantly more than he disclosed in his application form. Legal and General advised that 
had it known the true extent of Mr Cs alcohol consumption it wouldnt have offered him 
cover, so it cancelled the policy from the outset. 
Mr C complained about Legal and Generals decision. He disputed that hed answered the 
question about his alcohol consumption incorrectly. He said his wife had mistakenly believed 
his unusual behaviour leading up to his diagnosis was caused by alcohol. Legal and General 
reconsidered its decision but maintained that it wouldnt have offered Mr C cover had it 
known the true extent of his alcohol consumption or that he was still undergoing 
investigations into his health. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered it but didnt uphold it. 
He was satisfied that Legal and General had acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the 
law that applied at the time. He noted that Mr C had not disclosed his two hospital 
admissions in December when applying for the policy. He was also satisfied that 
Legal and General had demonstrated that it wouldnt have offered Mr C cover had it known 
the true extent of his alcohol consumption, which was reported to be as high as 56 units a 
week in November 2019. He was satisfied Legal and General was reasonably entitled to 
cancel the policy on discovering the correct information. 
Mr Cs legal representatives disagreed, on his behalf, and asked for the case to be 
considered by an ombudsman for a final decision. They raised doubt that Legal and General 
wouldve cancelled the policy had it known about the additional hospital attendances. They 
also noted that Mr C disputed the contents of the GP report, and therefore questioned the 
reasonableness of the investigator relying on the report in his conclusions. The investigator 
referred in his view to symptoms that were consistent with high alcohol consumption. But the 
representatives wanted it to be noted that the symptoms were also consistent with limbic 
encephalitis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of Mr Cs ill-health and diagnosis. Its clear from everything Ive read 
that its been a very difficult time for him and his wife. I also dont underestimate the 
disappointment to learn that his policy had been cancelled, especially as hed recently 
cancelled another policy. But while Im very sympathetic to Mr Cs circumstances, I havent 
found that Legal and General has acted unfairly. So I wont be upholding this complaint. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, so Id like to explain how Ive reached 
this conclusion. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading) provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer. 
As part of the application Mr C was advised of the importance of answering all questions 
truthfully and accurately. The signed declaration also notified him that if any of the 
information was later discovered to be incorrect it may lead to a claim not being paid, or the policy being amended or cancelled. I therefore consider Mr C was fairly notified of the need 
to make full and accurate disclosures. So, Ive considered whether Mr C answered the 
questions truthfully and accurately. 
alcohol consumption
In the application Mr C was asked How often do you drink alcohol? and During a typical 
week, how many alcoholic drinks do you have? For example, a drink is a glass of wine or a 
glass bottle of beer. Mr C answered that he drank weekly and typically consumed 5 
alcoholic drinks a week. But Mr Cs medical records suggest that hed been drinking 
significantly more than this. 
On 31 October 2019 his GP had recorded that Mr Cs wife was concerned hed been 
drinking one bottle of wine every night 7 nights a week. Mr C denied this and was reported 
to say he drank only to unwind. The GP advised of the importance of reducing alcohol 
intake. 
Mr Cs medical records from 13 November 2019 reference that Mr C had been told his 
bloods show high alcohol levels. It was also noted that his wife was worried about 
diabetes with alcohol drinking.
Mr C was admitted to A&E on 18 November 2019 complaining of limb weakness. In his 
discharge notes it was noted Patient drinks 56 units of alcohol/week. 
I understand that Mr C denies that he was drinking alcohol to excess. Hes obtained a letter 
from his GP which says, Note the history of alcohol misuse documented was purely on his 
wifes speculation and she is now clear that information was wrong.
While Ive considered what Mr C has said, including the clarification from his GP, on balance 
I think it was reasonable for Legal and General to conclude hed failed to accurately disclose 
his alcohol intake. I think the reference to high alcohol levels in a blood test is significant as 
this is clear empirical evidence, that isnt reliant on self-reporting. I think its also significant 
that Mr C was reported to be drinking to excess on more than one occasion and in more 
than one setting. 
In light of this evidence I consider it was reasonable for Legal and General to assume 56 
units a week was an accurate reflection of Mr Cs alcohol consumption and to re-underwrite 
the policy on that basis. 
CIDRA sets out that if theres been a careless misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled to 
apply a proportionate remedy. This means the insurer is entitled to revisit the underwriting of 
the policy and apply whatever terms would have applied had it known the misrepresented 
facts at the outset. 
Legal and General has demonstrated, by way of underwriting evidence, that had it known 
Mr Cs true alcohol consumption it wouldnt have been able to offer him cover. Im satisfied 
that Legal and General was therefore reasonably entitled to cancel the policy from the outset 
on the grounds that the policy should never have started. ongoing investigations
As part of the original application Mr C disclosed that hed undergone hospital investigations 
after hed suffered a blackout at work. The application was placed on hold until the results of 
the investigations were known. 
When Mr C resubmitted his application on 19 December 2019 he was again asked to tell us 
the diagnosis, results of the investigations, any further action planned and any time you have 
had off work. Mr C answered that he had a blackout in work on 31 October 2019 but had no 
symptoms since 18 November 2019. In relation to the investigations he said Has now had 
full results back fully discharged and nothing found. No further treatment required. 
But the medical records show that Mr Cs disclosure wasnt a full picture of his unfolding 
health concerns. After attending A&E on 18 November 2019 Mr C was admitted to a stroke 
ward, where he underwent further tests, before being discharged on 20 November 2019. He 
was admitted to A&E two more times before he completed the application on 
19 December 2019. 
On 9 December 2019 he was admitted to A&E complaining of limb weakness. His discharge 
summary notes hed experienced similar symptoms to those hed had the previous week. 
On 17 December 2019 Mr C was admitted to A&E following a seizure. His discharge notes 
indicate that hed had several seizures during the day and that he was awaiting a private 
neurology appointment. It was noted the symptoms were medically unexplained and it was 
noted Mr C would need to be reviewed by his GP and that CBT (cognitive behavioural 
therapy) could be considered. 
Mr C was also admitted to hospital on 19 December 2019, the day the application was 
submitted to Legal and General, and it was during this admission that he was diagnosed with 
limbic encephalitis. 
Having carefully considered Mr Cs medical records, I dont consider he gave a true and 
accurate picture of his state of health when he completed the application on 
19 December 2019. While it appears that the tests that had been carried out on 
20 November 2019 had all been returned as normal, it was evident that he was still 
experiencing symptoms. I cant say Mr C took reasonable care when he said hed had no 
symptoms since 18 November 2019, as its clear his symptoms were ongoing up to and 
including the day the application was submitted. Theres also evidence that while no further 
tests were required, he did need to be reviewed by his GP. Its also significant that Mr C had 
arranged to see a private neurologist, suggesting that he was still concerned by his 
symptoms. 
Considering this, I cant say Legal and General was unreasonable in saying Mr C had failed 
to accurately disclose his state of health when applying for cover. 
Legal and General has demonstrated that had it been aware Mr C was awaiting further 
investigation into his symptoms it wouldnt have offered him cover until the results were 
known. While it hasnt said what it would have done when he received a diagnosis, as 
already noted, it has already demonstrated that it wouldnt have offered cover due to his 
excessive alcohol consumption. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that had Legal and General known the full extent of 
Mr Cs medical history it wouldnt have offered him the cover it did. Overall, while I can understand Mr Cs disappointment that his policy has been cancelled, 
particularly as hed recently cancelled an existing policy, I cant conclude that Legal and 
General acted unfairly or unreasonably. So I wont be instructing it to take any further action.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman