DRN-4436745
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly handled her claim under sections 
75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a timeshare product she 
purchased using her credit card.   
What happened
While on holiday in or around October 2018, Mrs F and her husband attended a sales 
presentation by the supplier of timeshare and holiday products. During the presentation they 
agreed to purchase a timeshare product at a cost of US$22,023.89. Initial payments were 
made using a Lloyds credit card in Mrs Fs sole name. The payment terms required further 
regular monthly payments throughout the term of the contract entered into.
In July 2020, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mrs F submitted a claim to 
Lloyds under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The CMC told Lloyds the product purchased 
had been misrepresented to Mrs F and the contract had been breached by the seller. In 
particular, the CMC said:
Mrs F was told she was buying a holiday home;
The product itself was of some substance [] It is now clear the product is worthless 
and has no merit;
the product was represented as an investment which would increase in value;
Mrs F would be able to save a considerable sum of money, and gain access to 
exclusive accommodation; and
they cant use the holiday home whenever they choose and cannot visit with family 
and friends.
Lloyds said that the CMC hadnt provided any physical evidence of the misrepresentations or 
documentation to indicate the terms and conditions had been breached, so rejected the 
claim.
The CMC complained to Lloyds about the claim outcome. In response, Lloyds reiterated 
their position and agreed with their initial decision to decline Mrs Fs claim. Unhappy with 
Lloyds response, the CMC referred Mrs Fs complaint to this service.
One of this services investigators considered all the information and evidence provided. In 
doing so, our investigator also couldnt find any evidence to support the alleged 
misrepresentations or contract breach. And therefore, didnt think Lloyds response to Mrs 
Fs claim was unfair or unreasonable given all the circumstances. 
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that Mrs Fs complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. In support, Mrs F said:
she was pressured for over four hours by various people;
she thought she was buying a holiday home for an investment that could be used at 
any time with family and friends; and
having subsequently perused the contract Mrs F realised it didnt reflect her 
understanding of what shed purchased.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mrs Fs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further. Having done that, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our 
investigator, Id considered some issues which I dont feel were previously fully addressed. 
So, I issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2023 giving the parties to this complaint the 
opportunity to provide further comment, information or evidence before I reach my final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides protection to consumers for goods or 
services bought using credit. Mrs F paid for the timeshare product using a credit card 
under a pre-existing regulated agreement. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. 
This means that Mrs F is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like her under 
those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding 
whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 140A of the CCA (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between 
Mrs F and Lloyds arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related 
agreement). And because the product purchased was funded under the credit 
agreement, theyre deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to 
make a determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when 
deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint 
being considered here specifically relates to whether I believe Lloyds treatment of 
Mrs Fs claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information 
available to me. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if 
accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. And this service isnt 
able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt 
accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their 
claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. 
The claim for misrepresentation
In raising Mrs Fs claim and subsequent complaint about the claim outcome, the 
CMC have confirmed that the representations were made directly to Mrs F orally. But 
the seller doesnt advertise online, and their website is only available to members 
and theres no information obtainable from the seller. But they did provide copies of 
articles and chat forums online which they say mirrors Mrs Fs experience.
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale. The 
CMC have provided limited details and evidence to support the misrepresentations 
Mrs F says the seller made, although I acknowledge she does say she was told 
these things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the evidence thats available from 
the time of her purchase.
1 The FCAs Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP)I have seen a copy of the purchase agreement and contract from the time of the sale. 
So, Ive carefully considered its contents to establish whether it supports the 
alegations made. The contract includes two annexes. Annex A describes the various 
service providers and provides a website link for further detailed information. Annex 
B provides a detailed description of the service package being purchased.
There appears to be no suggestion that the product purchased provided Mrs F with a 
defined property or investment opportunity. I think its made clear that the product 
purchased is designed to provide access to a range of holiday accommodations and 
experiences at discounted rates over a contracted term of five years. Theres a clear 
explanation of any booking restrictions - both in terms of availability and how far in 
advance bookings are made. 
Ultimately, I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an 
investment simply because there might have been some inherent value to it. And in 
any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to suggest the seller 
provided any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
purchased. The seller would had to have presented the product in such a way that 
used its investment element to persuade Mrs F to contract. Only then is this likely to 
lead me to suspect the product may have been sold as an investment.
I think its also relevant that the CMC have not provided any evidence to demonstrate 
that Mrs F had attempted or was unable to make bookings (within the terms and 
restrictions of the contract). When considering the allegations, its important I 
consider the documentary evidence from the time of the sale. Particularly where this 
may support or contradict any allegations in question.  And on this basis, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the seller did misrepresent the product in the ways that 
have been alleged. And while I acknowledge what Mrs F says, the documentary 
evidence from the time of the sale doesnt appear to support her own recollections. 
Because of that, I cant say that Lloyds response was unreasonable here.
The breach of contract claim
I havent seen any evidence that the seller didnt comply with any of the terms and 
provisions contained within the purchase agreement and contract. And in any event, 
the CMC havent explained how any alleged breach ultimately resulted in a loss for 
Mrs F. And on that basis, I cant say that Lloydss response was unreasonable here.
The claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Lloyds) and the debtor (Mrs F) 
is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
As Ive already said, only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when looking at the various 
allegations.
Although not specifically included within the original claim, Mrs F has said she was 
pressured for four hours with various people adding their comments. I acknowledge what Mrs F has said about this. So, I can understand why it might be argued that the 
prolonged presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Mrs F 
approached the closing stages, she was going to have to make a decision on the day 
in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a later 
date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mrs F agreed to the purchase when she simply didnt want to. I 
havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that she went on to say something to the 
seller to suggest shed agreed to it when she didnt want to. And Mrs F hasnt 
provided a credible explanation for why she didnt subsequently seek to cancel the 
purchase within the five-day cooling off period permitted within the contract.
With all of this in mind, I think its unlikely a court might say the circumstances here 
led to a sufficiently extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor 
relationship unfair.
Summary
I would like to reassure Mrs F that Ive considered everything thats been said and 
provided. I include in that the extensive documentation provided that the CMC 
believes illustrates the alleged experiences of other consumers. However, I dont 
think these help in establishing the specific facts relating to Mrs Fs own experience 
and her resultant claim.
In the absence of any specific evidence to support Mrs Fs claim, Im unable to 
conclude that Lloyds response was unfair or unreasonable. And because of that, I 
dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision confirming that they have nothing more to add 
at this time. Despite this services follow up attempts, neither Mrs F nor the CMC have 
responded to my provisional decision.
In these circumstances, Ive no reason to vary from my provisional findings. So, I will not be 
asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman