DRN-1720396
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy that Santander UK Plc didn't remind them they'd opted to defer 
payment of the £225 Mortgage Account Fee. They say it only came to light when they were 
remortgaging to another lender and the solicitor obtained a redemption statement from 
Santander, and as they really struggled to pay it they want compensation for all the trouble 
they went through.
What happened
In 2014 Mrs and Mr M were moving house, and they applied for a mortgage with Santander 
through an independent financial adviser.
On 25 March 2014 Santander issued a mortgage offer setting out the contract that was 
being entered into, and the mortgage completed in June 2014.
In June 2019 Mrs and Mr M reached the end of their fixed rate term and were remortgaging 
to another lender. The solicitor obtained a redemption statement from Santander and as the 
figure was higher than they expected Mrs and Mr M phoned Santander to query it. Unhappy 
with the explanation they were given they raised a formal complaint which Santander 
rejected, saying the fee had been disclosed on the mortgage offer.
Our investigator also rejected the complaint for the same reasons. Mrs and Mr M didn't 
agree as they were unhappy Santander hadn't notified them about the fee over the five 
years the mortgage was running. They said people forget things and said they wanted an 
ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander issued a mortgage offer which set out the terms of the contract that was being 
entered by Mrs and Mr M. In section eight - entitled 'What fees must you pay?' - it states 
there's a fee of £225 with the explanation:
"A Mortgage Account Fee for the provision and general administration of your mortgage. 
This fee can be paid on completion or deferred until the end of your mortgage. If you defer 
the payment, this fee will not increase."
Santander had no regulatory responsibility to remind Mrs and Mr M about the terms of the 
contract they'd entered into. In 2014 Mrs and Mr M were issued with a copy of their 
mortgage offer to retain, so it was there for them to refer back to at any time if they needed 
to. I can't hold Santander liable if Mrs and Mr M didn't do that. I also can't hold Santander 
liable for the fact Mrs and Mr M forgot about the deferred fee.The mortgage was taken out on the advice of a third party unconnected to Santander, so if 
Mrs and Mr M think they should have been given more information about the fee when they 
took the mortgage out - including the options to pay it upfront or in stages over the life of the 
mortgage - then that's something they can raise with the independent financial adviser. 
Santander didn't have to give them that advice, nor did it have to do anything more than it 
did. It set out the details of the fee in the mortgage offer and that's sufficient.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman