DRN-4095658
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont reimburse 
direct debit payments that paid to a company after theyd stopped the direct debit.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs T told Halifax to cancel a direct debit that was being paid from 
their account. However, Mr and Mrs T later noticed that, while no direct debit payments had 
been paid for two few months after they instructed Halifax to cancel it, Halifax had then 
resumed making direct debit payments to the company in question. 
Mr and Mrs T werent happy about this as they hadnt authorised Halifax to make those 
direct debit payments and because while Halifax had initially reimbursed the cumulative 
amount of the disputed payments to them, they had later debited that amount from their 
account, effectively cancelling the reimbursement. So, they raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr and Mrs T and confirmed they had raised a direct debit indemnity 
claim with the company in question but that the company had challenged the claim and had 
demonstrated that the direct debits had been applied for by them legitimately. Mr and Mrs T 
werent satisfied with Halifaxs response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation. Mr and Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have explained that they contacted Halifax in March 2022 and instructed them 
to cancel the direct debit that was set up on their account. And Mr and Mrs T contend that 
because Halifax had been instructed to cancel the direct debit, they had no authority to 
resume making the direct debit payments as they did.
Halifax dispute Mr and Mrs Ts position and say that they didnt receive a request to cancel 
the direct debit as Mr and Mrs T claim. Halifax also note that the reason no payments were 
made for a few months was because the company to whom the direct debit was being paid 
had paused the direct debit for those few months.
In circumstances such as this, where the positions of a complainant and a respondent 
business contradict one another, I must decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so  
which version of events I feel is most likely to have taken place, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
In this instance, I find the version of events put forwards by Halifax to be the more 
persuasive. This is because Halifax have provided their contact notes for Mr and Mrs T 
which dont include any request to cancel the direct debit in March 2022 as Mr and Mrs T 
claim. Additionally, Mr and Mrs T havent provided any confirmation from Halifax that the 
direct debit had been cancelled. 
It's also clear from Halifaxs records and actions that when Mr and Mrs T contacted them in 
January 2023, having noticed that direct debit payments had resumed, that Halifax were 
paying the direct debit based on the original mandate which had been received in 2021. And 
so, it wasnt the case that Halifax had cancelled the direct debit in March 2022 and then 
reinstated it without Mr and Mrs Ts authority a few months later. 
When Mr and Mrs T did contact Halifax in January 2023, Halifax raised a direct debit 
indemnity claim with the company in question. Such a claim seeks to obtain a 
reimbursement from a company for taking direct debit payments incorrectly. But the 
company were able to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs T had never cancelled the direct debit 
with them and that therefore the resumption of the direct debit payments following the two-
month direct debit pause hadnt been done in error.
It was for this reason  that the legitimacy of the disputed payments was demonstrated by 
the company to Halifaxs satisfaction  that Halifax withdrew the reimbursement of the 
claimed amount from Mr and Mrs T account. And I note that it had been explained to Mr and 
Mrs T by Halifax that the reimbursement was conditional on it being found that the direct 
debit payments shouldnt have been taken and that the reimbursement would be withdrawn 
if the claim wasnt found in Mr and Mrs Ts favour.
All of which means that I dont feel that Halifax have done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
here. This is because Im not convinced that Mr and Mrs T did instruct Halifax to cancel the 
direct debit in March 2022 as they claim, given the absence of evidence to corroborate this 
claim. And this means I feel that it was fair for Halifax to honour the resumed payment 
requests received from the company under the existing direct debit mandate at that time, 
and for Halifax to withdraw the conditional reimbursement of the cumulative payment amount 
following Mr and Mrs Ts unsuccessful direct debit indemnity claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman