DRN-3116515
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc wouldnt accept a payment plan that she 
offered to set up to help clear the arrears on her credit account or that Sainsburys later 
defaulted her account and reported it as such on her credit file.
What happened
Miss L found herself in financial difficulty and her Sainsburys credit account fell into arrears. 
Miss L spoke to Sainsburys about this and offered to clear the arrears on the account by 
paying £500 per month. But, when Sainsburys discussed Miss Ls monthly income and 
outgoings with her, it transpired that Miss L didnt have the disposable monthly income 
available to be able to pay £500 per month, and so Sainsburys declined to set up the 
payment plan as Miss L had requested.
Miss L then advised Sainsburys that she would clear the arrears in full by the end of the 
next month, July 2020. Sainsburys asked Miss L to speak with them again at the beginning 
of July to review her income and expenditure again. However, Miss L didnt contact 
Sainsburys again, and she didnt make the payment that shed promised, and so 
Sainsburys defaulted Miss Ls account in August 2020 and reported the default to her credit 
file. Miss L wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Miss Ls complaint. But they noted that there had been arrears 
outstanding on Miss Ls account for several months by the time that the account had been 
defaulted and explained that it wouldnt have been responsible of them to agree to the £500 
per month payment plan offered by Miss L when the income and expenditure information 
demonstrated that Miss L wouldnt be able to afford such repayments. 
Miss L wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Sainsburys 
hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed the situation with Miss Ls 
account arrears, including that Sainsburys hadnt accepted the £500 payment plan and that 
theyd ultimately defaulted Miss Ls account, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Miss L may have been keen to avoid, as much as possible, her credit 
file being impacted during the time that she was struggling to make payments towards her 
Sainsburys credit account, and that she may feel aggrieved that she offered a payment plan 
to Sainsburys to clear the arrears, only for Sainsburys to refuse to set up the payment plan 
that she had offered to them.
But Sainsburys, like all credit providers, are required to provide credit responsibly. And 
because of this I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to have declined to set 
up the £500 per month payment plan that Miss L offered, and I say this because when    
Miss L confirmed her monthly income and expenditure to Sainsburys at that time, it 
demonstrated that Miss Ls actual disposable monthly income was approximately £20. 
As such, given these circumstances, Id almost certainly consider that Sainsburys had acted 
irresponsibly if they had set up the payment plan that Miss L had suggested to them, and 
this is because it appears evident that Miss L wouldnt in all likelihood have been able to 
make the £500 monthly repayments that she was promising.
Miss L has stated that she could have temporarily stopped making car finance payments in 
order to clear the arrears on the Sainsburys account. But again, it wouldnt be considered 
responsible for Sainsburys to have agreed to this, given that it would have entailed Miss L 
falling into arrears with another credit provider in order to clear her arrears with Sainsburys.
Its notable that, at the time that Miss L offered the £500 per month repayment plan to 
Sainsburys, her account had been in arrears for several months. Its also notable that 
Sainsburys had taken action to try to help Miss L recover her financial position during that 
time, including holding back collections activity on the account to give Miss L breathing 
space as well as giving Miss L details of third party organisations that might have been able 
to help Miss L navigate the financial difficulties that she found herself in. 
Its also important to confirm that all credit providers have an obligation to make accurate 
reports to the credit reference agencies. Sainsburys appear to have been doing that here, 
and while I can appreciate that Miss L may have been dismayed to see that missed 
payments were being reported to her credit file by Sainsburys during the period that she 
was in arrears and when Sainsburys had placed a hold on her account, Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys actions in reporting such missing payments were fair and reasonable and in line 
with their obligations as a credit provider.
Finally, it should be noted that Sainsburys werent obliged to hold collections activity on the 
account indefinitely, which would have meant that the account continued to fall further and 
further into arrears. Indeed, it would almost certainly be considered irresponsible of 
Sainsburys to have done this, and instead, in circumstances where an account has fallen 
into arrears over a period of several months and where the clearing of those arrears in a 
reasonable period of time is unlikely  which given the income and expenditure information 
that Miss L provided to Sainsburys, Im satisfied was the case in this instance  its 
considered that the responsible course of action for a credit provider to take is to default the 
account, which freezes that balance outstanding on the account and prevents the account 
holder falling further into debt, and to report the default to the credit reference agencies.
Miss L may contend that she could have made payments towards the account to clear the 
arrears. But Miss L promised to make such a payment to Sainsburys by the end of July 
2020, but then didnt contact Sainsburys further about this or make any payment to clear all 
or some of the arrears.
Miss L has stated that the reason that she didnt contact Sainsburys was because of health 
issues that she was experiencing at that time. I can sympathise with Miss L here, but Im not 
convinced that even had Miss L been able to contact Sainsburys in July 2020 as 
Sainsburys asked of her that Miss L would have been able to have made a payment 
necessary to avoid the account being defaulted. And I say this because Sainsburys had 
recently been made aware of Miss Ls financial position via the monthly income and 
expenditure information she had provided, and which showed that it was unlikely that Miss L 
would have been able to make a payment necessary to avoid the default being applied.All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Sainsburys have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how they managed the situation of Miss L being in arrears on her account, 
and I say this because Sainsburys offered assistance to Miss L to help her try to recover her 
financial position and because Im satisfied that it would have been irresponsible of 
Sainsburys to have accepted the payment plan that Miss L offered to them or to have 
allowed the account to continue to fall further into arrears indefinitely.
It follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing Sainsburys to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss L was wanting, but I hope that shell be able 
to understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman