DRN-2041250
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about delays and incorrect information he was given by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
after he made a faster payment to a third party. 
What happened
On 13 August 2019 Mr P instructed HSBC to make a faster payment to a third party and 
expected it to be received within around two hours. But the payment wasnt received by the 
third party and Mr P contacted HSBC to find out what had happened. Mr P was incorrectly 
told the payment would go through, but it had been held by HSBCs fraud department for 
further checks. 
On 14 August 2019 Mr P contacted HSBC again to query the faster payment and was able 
to speak with the fraud team. As a result, the payment was released to the third party. But 
Mr P later found his online banking facility had been blocked and had to contact HSBC 
again. Mr P complained and HSBC responded on 25 August 2019. 
In its response, HSBC said its fraud team had tried to contact Mr P about the payment. 
HSBC said Mr Ps online banking facility was disabled after it was unable to contact him on 
13 August 2019. HSBC paid Mr P £50 and apologised for any inconvenience caused. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, HSBC agreed to increase the compensation offered by £140, taking the total 
award to £190. HSBC agreed that the service provided to Mr P had been poor at times and 
that compensation of £40 hed been offered during an online chat hadnt been paid. Our 
investigator thought HSBCs increased offer was a fair way to resolve the complaint but Mr P 
didnt agree and asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the service the service provided by HSBC should have been better. Its clear 
Mr P called HSBC on several occasions on 13 August 2019 to query his faster payment and 
that he was promised £40 that was never paid.  Ive reviewed the online chat and I find it 
difficult to understand why the person Mr P was talking to was unable to help or refer him to 
the right team. Mr P provided lots of identifying information, including the payment 
references. I can understand why Mr P is upset. 
But, I have to balance that against HSBCs obligation to protect customers money and the 
account terms. The terms allow HSBC to place a hold on a payment if there are concerns 
about fraud. I appreciate his was a genuine payment Mr P intended to make. But Im 
satisfied HSBCs systems did identify the payment for further checks due to legitimate 
concerns. So, whilst I agree the faster payment wasnt made in the standard timescales, Im 
satisfied HSBC acted reasonably and in line with the account terms when it blocked it. 
In addition, HSBC says that when a payment is highlighted for fraud concerns the 
customers online banking facility is temporarily suspended. I agree that HSBC should have 
removed the online banking suspension once Mr P provided the information it needed to 
release the transfer. 
HSBC originally offered Mr P £40 in the online chat but didnt go on to pay it. But HSBC did 
pay £50 following its final response on 25 August 2019. And HSBC has now agreed to 
increase the award by a further £150, taking the total award to £190. Mr P has asked us to 
consider a figure of £1,000 compensation. I do understand that this was a stressful situation 
for Mr P and can see he was genuinely concerned about the location of his funds and 
service provided. But the situation was resolved on 14 August 2019, when Mr P was able to 
speak with the fraud team. So the length of time Mr P was unaware of the location of his 
funds was limited. And whilst the online banking facility was temporarily disabled, HSBC 
reinstated it. Ive taken into account that Mr P spent a lot of time on the phone trying to trace 
his funds, along with the fact he had to check back with the third party. Ive also considered 
everything Mr P has told us about how upset and anxious he was after his faster payment 
appeared to go missing. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I think a total compensation figure of £190 is fair in all the 
circumstances. Im satisfied that figure fairly takes the impact of HSBCs service into account 
along with the way it handled Mr Ps faster payment and inconvenience caused. HSBC has 
already paid £50 and has confirmed it will pay a further £140, taking the total award to £190, 
if Mr P accepts. As Im satisfied HSBC has made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve 
Mr Ps complaint, Im not telling it to increase the award or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him a 
total compensation figure of £190 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman