DRN-3806331
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled its attempt to recover its 
outlay, following a buildings insurance claim. Mr and Mrs S said AXAs actions left them with 
a counterclaim to deal with, on their own.
What happened
In February 2022, part of a tree fell onto Mr and Mrs S property, causing damage to it. The 
tree was from Mr and Mrs S neighbours garden. Because their property was damaged, 
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their buildings insurance policy, held with AXA.
AXA considered the claim and accepted it. AXA provided Mr and Mrs S with a settlement for 
the loss. And the claim was resolved. Mr and Mrs S dont have any concerns about the 
acceptance of the claim, or the settlement itself.
However, theyve expressed concerns with AXAs conduct, when it was seeking to recover 
its outlay on the claim. Mr and Mrs S have said that AXA attempted to seek recovery, even 
though they had told AXA the relationship with the neighbour was strained. And that the 
neighbour was likely to be challenging about the situation.
Mr and Mrs S have said their neighbour was indeed challenging about the issue. And in 
response to the recovery action taken, their neighbour lodged a counterclaim. This 
counterclaim focused on the neighbours belief that when Mr and Mrs S had undertaken 
building work in 2008, they had done so without planning permission. And that when carrying 
out the work Mr and Mrs S contractors had damaged a tree. This tree died as a result, and it 
was this trees branches that had fallen and damaged Mr and Mrs S property. So, they 
considered the situation to be Mr and Mrs S fault.
The neighbour was claiming £20,000 for the tree. And £70,000 as they said Mr and Mrs S 
actions had devalued their property. So, the counterclaim was for £90,000 in total.
Following the counterclaim being lodged, AXA decided it was no longer going to pursue its 
outlay from the neighbour. It said it wasnt economical to continue. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this. They said that it was AXA that had made a claim in 
the first place. And without its claim, the neighbour wouldnt have provided a counterclaim. 
Mr and Mrs S said that AXA were now leaving it to deal with the counterclaim when it had a 
duty to support Mr and Mrs S with this. 
AXA didnt agree. It said it was entitled to seek recovery. And to decide when this wasnt 
viable. AXA also said that the counterclaim made was relation to an issue back in 2008, 
when Mr and Mrs S didnt hold cover with it. It said this wasnt something covered under Mr 
and Mrs S insurance policy with it. So, they would need to seek assistance under their legal 
expenses cover. Or find their own representation elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs S remained of the opinion this was unfair. So, they raised a complaint with AXA 
about the matter. AXA maintained its position. As Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, they 
referred their complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that AXA were entitled to initially seek recovery for their outlay. And were entitled to decide 
when to stop pursuing this, given it became uneconomical. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They maintained their position that AXA had a duty to support 
them with the counterclaim, given it came off the back of AXAs initial claim for recovery of 
funds.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S. Its clear they feel strongly about the matter. But Ive 
explained the reasoning for my decision below.
The starting point when considering this complaint is the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs 
S buildings insurance policy. Thats because it is the contract that both parties agreed to 
when the policy was taken out.
On reviewing the policy documents, I can see that the following is explained:
When handling your claim, we are entitled to:
take over any rights in the defense or settlement of any claim in your name and at 
our expense;
take legal action in your name and at our expense to get compensation or recover 
any money from a third party.
Given the above, Im satisfied that AXA were entitled to make a decision to attempt recovery 
from Mr and Mrs S neighbours. This is a common term in insurance policies of this nature. 
So, I dont think AXA did anything wrong, or unusual, in making the initial decision to seek 
recovery. It made this choice based on the information it had about the owner of the tree, 
and the damage to Mr and Mrs S property. And it acted in line with the terms of the policy.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have said they told AXA about the relationship with their 
neighbour, and that the recovery action was likely to be met with challenge and obstruction. 
And I appreciate this point. And based on the documentation Ive seen, AXA were given 
some idea of the challenging relationship between Mr and Mrs S and the neighbour, in 
respect of the tree, and some other issues. But that doesnt change the fact that AXA were 
entitled to seek recovery. And at that stage, it was unlikely to have known this would be 
uneconomical. So, I dont think it did anything wrong, or unreasonable, in the way it dealt 
with this aspect of the loss.
From reviewing both internal and external emails on the matter, I can see that AXA decided 
to stop recovery action, on receipt of documents from the neighbours representative, 
seeking an action to dismiss the recovery claim. As well as a counterclaim for losses the 
neighbour said they have suffered.AXA decided to stop recovery of their claims outlay  because on reviewing these 
submissions, it decided pursuing recovery any further wouldnt be economical. Meaning it 
would likely cost more for it to defend its recovery action, than it would gain from it being 
successful. Given the above term, which enables AXA to take over the legal action, Im 
satisfied it is AXAs legitimate decision to stop recovery in the circumstances. So, I dont 
think it did anything wrong by stopping its claim at that point. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that AXAs decision to stop recovery was unreasonable. Because 
they say AXA had an obligation to support Mr and Mrs S with the counterclaim  because it 
had arisen as a result of AXAs recovery actions. I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs S 
position here. But I dont agree that AXA acted unfairly in deciding not to take the matter 
further. Or that it had an obligation to support with the counterclaim.
The counterclaim raised various issues. These going back many years  before AXA insured 
Mr and Mrs S. So, at this stage, it became clear there isnt any cover under their policy for 
this, including the property owners liability section.
And Im satisfied that until receipt of the counterclaim it wouldnt have been clear that it 
would be uneconomical, for AXA to resolve all of the issues for all parties. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for AXA to cease action at the point that it did. Mr and Mrs S concerns in 
this respect dont change the outcome of this complaint. AXA acted in line with the policy.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman