DRN-3031670
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloydss offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs F paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs F first took out their mortgage with Lloyds in 1991 and didnt take PPI out at 
that point. It wasnt until 1997 that they first took out the policy. Unfortunately, Lloyds no 
longer has any documentation from the sale itself, which I dont think is unreasonable 
considering it was around 24 years ago. Mr and Mrs F havent made any specific 
arguments about being unaware of the policy or feeling like they had to have it. And 
considering that theyd already had a mortgage for six years at that point, I think its more 
likely they were aware it was a separate product. In addition to this, the policy was taken 
out in Mr Fs name only. Mrs F wasnt in employment at the time so wouldnt have been 
eligible for the policy, so I think its more likely they chose to amend the policy to suit 
their needs, and that there was a discussion about the PPI. 
When Mr and Mrs F took out a further advance in 1999, they also opted to amend the 
PPI policy to include the additional borrowing. Lloyds has been able to provide me with 
some documents from this time, including the further advance application form. 
Unfortunately, the quality of the document is poor, but I can see there was a separate 
section for PPI with two boxes to choose from, and Mr and Mrs F ticked one of them. 
They were then sent a letter confirming the choices they made when taking the further 
advance. This set out that they had chosen to upgrade the PPI policy to include the 
further borrowing, and Mr and Mrs F signed this document to agree to its contents. So, 
on balance, I think they agreed to amend the policy, knowing they didnt have to. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr Fs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr F was eligible for the 
cover and while he had six months of sick pay and some savings available to him, the 
policy could have paid out for up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill to work, had an 
accident or was made redundant. And this would have been in addition to his employee 
benefits. So, I think Mr and Mrs F could have found it useful. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Fs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr F has mentioned some medical conditions 
that occurred sometime before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for 
Lloyds to have recommended it. I say this because the conditions he has mentioned 
occurred around ten years before the policy was sold and he hasnt mentioned any 
ongoing or recurring issues in relation to the conditions. So I think its unlikely he would 
have expected to rely on the policy for the conditions.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs F as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs F would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs F would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Fs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs F about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs F was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs F because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs F should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr and Mrs F about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs F in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Fs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs F paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs F with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloydss payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Lloyds has already paid Mr and Mrs F compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr and Mrs F an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman