DRN-2950737
The complaint
Mr V complains that a car acquired with finance from The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2016 Mr V was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with TCFC.
Mr V says he experienced jolting with the car soon after he got it. He says a repair was 
attempted to the Abs sensor which didnt resolve the issue. He says the car went back to the 
dealership several times and that in February 2017 he was told that there was a fault with 
the timing chain which wouldnt be covered by the warranty because the fault was likely to 
be due to wear and tear due to the number of miles hed covered since getting the car.
Mr V complained to TCFC, but it rejected his complaint on the grounds that the fault hadnt 
been shown to be present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr V subsequently experienced some difficulties and the car was repossessed in May 2018 
due to him falling behind with his monthly payments.
Following this, the debt was sold to a debt recovery company, who are now pursuing Mr V 
for the amount outstanding under the finance agreement.
Mr V disputes the debt. He says the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that he should 
have been allowed to reject it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car had a fault at the point of supply. He also said it was unlikely that the car 
wouldve been able to cover the mileage covered in the first few months of there had been 
an inherent fault. The investigator concluded that Mr V did not have the right to reject the 
car.
Mr V didnt agree. He said the car had been in and out of the dealership several times and 
that theyd diagnosed an issue with the timing chain. Mr V said the car was still under 
warranty at this time, and that the timing chain wasnt a serviceable item. Mr V said there 
must have been a fault with the timing chain from the very start of the agreement, but it took 
the dealership 6 months to diagnose the fault. Mr V said he had no option but to continue 
using the car despite the fault because he couldnt afford to pay for repairs. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because TCFC supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that 
supplied to Mr V  to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than, 
say, a brand-new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that 
there was an inherent fault with the car, rather than a fault caused by wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally 
up to the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its 
up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. There hasnt been an independent inspection of the car in this 
case, so Ive had to reach a decision based on the available evidence.
Mr V hasnt provided any information about the repairs which he said were carried out to the 
car in the first few months. So, its difficult for me to make any assessment of exactly when 
the car developed issues, what those issues were, and what (if any) repairs were attempted. 
Ive looked at the emails between Mr V and the dealership, and I can see that Mr V was 
complaining about issues with the car in February 2017. Whilst I appreciate that these 
emails fall within the first 6 months of the point of supply, theres no evidence to show what 
was wrong with the car. 
Ive looked at the fault codes which Mr V has provided but these of themselves dont prove 
that theres an inherent fault, only that theres a fault at the time of the diagnostic. And in this 
case, theres no date on the fault codes, so I cant be certain of when the codes were 
generated.
I can see that TCFC asked Mr V to provide evidence to show that the faults he complained 
about were present or developing at the point of supply. I cant see that Mr V provided any 
evidence.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account in reaching my decision. I can see that 
Mr V covered over 11,000 miles in the first few months. Due to the time and mileage which 
elapsed before the fault was diagnosed, I think its unlikely that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think theres enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So Im unable to say that Mr V should have been 
allowed to reject the car. 
In the circumstances, I wont be asking TCFC to do anything here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman