DRN-3405587
The complaint
Mr G complains about the poor performance of his pension policy which he says is the fault 
of Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (PL). 
What happened
In 1985 Mr G took out a Section 226 Retirement Contract (the policy) with Australian Mutual 
Provident Society which is now the responsibility of PL. For ease of reference, Ill only refer 
to PL throughout this decision. 
Mr Gs policy was invested in a conventional with-profits fund with any available profits being 
added to the policy in the form of bonuses, subject to guaranteed benefits being secured. 
The policy was set up with a retirement date of 19 December 2022. 
The initial monthly premium was £50. This increased over the years and from 2000, the 
monthly premiums were set at £200. Mr Gs policy is subject to a guaranteed minimum fund 
value at his retirement date, known as the guaranteed basic sum assured (GBSA). In order 
to receive the GBSA, Mr G is required to maintain his premiums until the retirement date.
In 2013 PL sent policy holders a question and answer document about the policy. It 
indicated further annual bonuses and a terminal bonus would be unlikely. This was 
reaffirmed in subsequent letters sent to Mr G. In a letter dated 2 March 2021 Mr Gs GBSA 
was quoted as being £70,922. PL confirmed the total amount of annual bonuses that had 
been added to the policy to date was £53,368 which meant at his retirement date his 
pension fund would be guaranteed to be £124,368. By the time he reaches the retirement 
date he would have paid total premiums of £67,575. 
Mr G complained to PL saying the policy had offered a poor rate of return since its inception. 
He noted that bonuses hadnt been paid since 2004 and he considered PL had been holding 
back profits it could have passed on to his policy. Mr G was also unhappy that PL didnt 
provide all the information he requested.
PL rejected Mr Gs complaint explaining that the bonuses could only be added to the policy if 
there were sufficient funds to do so. And since 2004 the guaranteed element of the policy, 
was more than the underlying value of the fund so this is why bonuses could not be paid.
Our investigator didnt think PL had done anything wrong. He explained, in detail, how a 
with-profits policy worked. And he felt PL had explained why bonuses could not be added to 
Mr Gs policy on several occasions. He didnt think PL had misled Mr G about the 
guaranteed element of the policy or about the conditions under which bonuses would be 
added to his policy.
Mr G remained unhappy. He raised several questions with the investigator about his (the 
investigators) view which were answered. But he remained unhappy and maintained PL had 
retained profits that should have passed on to policy holders. So, he asked for the matter to 
be passed to an Ombudsman for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr G has strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
arguments to support his case which I can confirm Ive read and carefully considered. 
However, I trust Mr G will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point 
raised, but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
The way the policy has been administered over the years, including when bonuses have 
been added, appears to be in line with what was set out in Mr Gs agreement. Mr G doesnt 
dispute that PL may well be within its contractual rights but he questions why the bonuses 
stopped in 2004 and why the policy hasnt performed better given PLs own profitability over 
the years. But I think PL has explained, as has our investigator, in significant detail, why this 
is the case. 
In my view, PLs communications about how Mr Gs policy worked and the amounts he could 
expect to receive at retirement date, have been clear, fair and not misleading. Whilst I know 
he is unhappy with its explanations I cant see it has done anything wrong in terms of what it 
has promised to pay him. In other words, I dont think PL has misled him about the terms of 
his policy. Or why it has reached the amount it has.
Mr G says the policy has provided poor value for money compared to other products. But 
this is the nature of investment risk  not all investments products will perform as well as 
others. In this case, PL has been clear about what Mr G can expect from his policy. Beyond 
the GBSA there was no guarantee to pay bonuses. These would only be paid if there were 
sufficient funds to do so. 
As PL said in an update on 2 March 2016, its primary goal is to ensure that all policy holders 
guaranteed benefits are protected. This means investment returns and the premiums paid, 
must first be used to provide these guaranteed benefits. And returns, of the underlying funds 
simply havent been sufficient to pay bonuses in addition to meeting the guaranteed element 
of each policy.
Mr G thinks PL has been withholding profits from his policy but I cant see any evidence of 
this. And I dont think there was any promise made that it would pay beyond what it was 
contractually obliged to do. I know Mr G feels he was misled about the potential for the policy 
to pay more than the minimum. But from what I can see, PL is set to pay him an amount 
which goes beyond just paying the guaranteed element as some bonuses have added to his 
policy in some of the earlier years up until 2004. 
I know Mr G considers some information sent by PL has been confusing. For example, PL 
said in a letter of 29 December 2020 the sums quoted werent guaranteed. But as PL has 
explained to Mr G, these warnings were made to cover the situation where a policy holder 
surrendered the policy early. PL has made it clear to Mr G that as long as he pays his 
premiums until the retirement date, he will receive the GBSA and the bonuses which have 
already been added to the policy. I dont think hes been misled about this.
I note what Mr G says about PL not being able to provide him with all the information hes 
requested such as information about its charges. He also wanted PL to provide him with 
valuations going back to the start of the policy. But from what I can see, it has complied 
reasonably and fairly to Mr Gs requests.PL explained the charges with a with-profits contract do not have charges deducted 
explicitly. Rather, when the company realises profits out of the operating of these contracts, 
it is passed back to the policy holders in the form of bonuses. So, by enhancing benefits as 
profits are made, there is no reason to include explicit charges.
In terms of providing documents and information going back to the inception of the policy, 
firms are only normally required to keep records for six years. I see PL has provided Mr G 
with the valuations of his policy going back to 2017. It also provided him with a list of all the 
payments he has made since the inception of the policy. A copy of a completed application 
and an example of the policy document going back to when the policy was with Australian 
Mutual Provident Society has also been provided  this latter document contains the policys 
original terms and conditions. Overall, I think PL has acted fairly and reasonably in respect of 
meeting Mr Gs information requests. 
I note Mr G asked our service about whether the guaranteed annuity rate, which he has said 
is 127.9%, would have to be honoured. We are here to settle disputes and not provide 
advice about a future event. From what I can see PL has answered Mr Gs request about 
this issue in its letter of 27 April 2022.
So, for all these reasons, whilst I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman