DRN-2963045
The complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua failed to update Mr Cs credit file once the 
outstanding balance on his credit card was repaid in full.
What happened
Mr C had an Aqua credit card which was included in a debt management programme. In July 
2017 the defaulted debt was sold to a collection agency. Mr C settled the outstanding debt in 
full with the collection agent in June 2018. 
It was only when Mr C applied to his bank for a re-mortgage, two years later, that he 
discovered Aqua hadnt marked the debt as settled but instead had continued to record 
missed payments. Throughout that two-year period, hed also been turned down for a 
mortgage extension and online loan applications.
Mr C complained to NewDay in August 2020. NewDay accepted responsibility for the 
complaint. They said they should have stopped recording the debt on Mr Cs credit file once 
they sold it on, and then the new owner of the debt would take over the credit file reporting. 
But in this case, NewDay continued to report missed payments after theyd sold the debt  
alongside the reports made by the new lender. This meant the debt appeared on Mr Cs 
credit file twice  incorrectly, in the case of NewDays reports. This means that NewDay is 
responsible for this complaint even though they no longer owns the debt.
NewDay upheld the complaint and offered £85 compensation for the administration error. 
They advised Mr Cs credit file had been amended following receipt of a data dispute from 
the credit reference agency in July 2020. When the debt had been sold on in June 2017, 
NewDay should have stopped reporting it to the credit reference agencies  but the historic 
entries would remain. Mr C felt the compensation offered wasnt a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused so contacted us for help.
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint and agreed the compensation offered 
wasnt enough. The investigator recommended NewDay pay Mr C a total of £350 
compensation. Both Mr C and NewDay rejected the investigators findings and asked for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why. 
NewDay have agreed they made a mistake by not updating the status of the account 
correctly  so whether an error has been made isnt in dispute. What I need to consider is 
the impact this has had on Mr C and his financial needs.
Mr C says it was due to this particular entry on his credit file that he wasnt able to obtain 
further lending. But from looking at Mr Cs credit file I dont think this is likely to have been 
the case. Mr C has many adverse entries on his credit file which would have been 
highlighted to a lender when completing an application for credit. There would have also 
been other factors that would have been identified and influenced a lenders decision to 
supply credit such as, payday loans, debt collectors and defaults and a large number of 
recent credit applications. Mr C says that but for this loan, his credit score would have gone 
up more quickly. But even if thats true, the credit reference agencys score isnt something 
lenders take into account. Its just a guide for consumers. Lenders look at the full credit 
history, and each has their own way of taking into account what the record says.
Weve asked Mr C for evidence that the NewDay entry was the specific reason applications 
were declined, but Mr C hasnt been able to show this. In the absence of that evidence, and 
having looked at his credit history, I think its likely that even if NewDay hadnt continued to 
report missed payments, Mr C would have found it difficult to take out further credit.
I dont agree with Mr Cs expectations of what compensation should be paid, as I dont think 
its likely that this entry alone was the reason Mr C was declined credit. Even if NewDay had 
no longer continued to record missed payments after it sold the debt on, there were still a 
significant amount of other entries and information which would likely to have caused a 
lender to decline any further lending to Mr C.
However, Mr C has had to go to a lot of trouble and time to get this sorted out, and I dont 
think the £85 offered by NewDay is enough to reflect the trouble and upset caused.  And 
even if I dont agree with him about the consequences of the error, I can see hes been very 
upset about it. I agree that £350 as suggested by the investigator is a better reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Cs complaint, NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should pay Mr C £350 in total for 
the trouble and upset caused by NewDays error.
My final decision
 My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman