DRN-2700725
The complaint
Mr N complains about the interest rate offered to him by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax when the previous fixed rate on his mortgage expired.
What happened
Mr N has a mortgage with Halifax. As he came to the end of a fixed rate term, he went onto 
Halifaxs website to see what new rates it had available. He found three and five year fixed 
rates, but didnt think they were very competitive. The three year rate was at 2.84%.
Mr N then went to a mortgage broker, which arranged a two year rate with Halifax. This was 
at 1.2%, with a £999 product fee.
Mr N complained. He didnt think it was fair that Halifax had initially offered a higher rate, or 
that he was charged a fee to secure a competitive rate.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr N asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has a range of rates available to its customers, some direct and some via brokers.
In this case, although Mr N was initially offered a higher rate, he managed to secure a lower 
rate  in line with his expectations  so I dont think he has suffered any loss.
Mr N has also complained about being charged a fee to take a rate. Thats common practice 
across the mortgage industry. Most lenders that offer rates offer a choice  some rates are 
lower but come with a fee, other rates are higher but have no fee. Where there is a fee, £999 
is not unusual.
At the relevant time, the two year rates available to Mr N were 2.44% with no fee, or 1.2% 
with a £999 fee. Although the fee-free rate is significantly higher, theres also a substantial 
saving in not having to pay the fee. Which works out cheaper overall depends on the 
individual mortgage balance and therefore the amount of interest charged each month. But 
this choice was presented to Mr N for him to decide which was best for him. As I say, its not 
unusual for a lender to have some rates with a fee and some without, and I dont think 
Halifax has done anything wrong in having these options for Mr N to choose from.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman