The complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a credit card.
What happened
In January 2007, Mr C applied for a credit card. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
account. The cost of the PPI was charged to the card account - so he'd repay the extra cost 
with interest in line with the terms and conditions of the card.
Mr C thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr C didn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first thought about whether Mr C would have known the policy was optional. Mr C says 
the insurance was sold to him during a meeting. HSBC says it cannot confirm this. But it 
looks as though the PPI started on the same day as the credit card, so it seems likely that it 
was. Based on what I know about HSBC's sales process at this time, it's likely Mr C needed 
to actively select the PPI as part of the application, and sign separately to say he wanted it. 
So I think, on balance, it's likely that Mr C wanted the policy, and chose to buy it.
HSBC recommended the policy to Mr C, so it had to make sure it was right for him. Based 
on what I know of Mr C's circumstances, I think it was. Mr C has told us that as he was self-
employed he wouldn't have received any pay if he was off work sick. The policy would also 
have protected him if he'd lost his job. So I think the policy could have been useful if he'd 
needed to claim.
I note that Mr C was self-employed when he bought the policy. But having looked at the 
policy terms and conditions, I think this policy would have covered people in Mr C's 
employment circumstances - and so this doesn't mean the policy was unsuitable.
HSBC also had to give Mr C the information he needed to work out for himself if he wanted 
the policy. It's possible the information wasn't as clear as it could have been. But Mr C 
DRN-1076264doesn't seem to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. The 
cost seems to have been affordable to him. So I'm not persuaded that better information 
would have changed Mr C's decision to buy the policy.
Finally, HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
 HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr C, that was
unfair.
 To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so HSBC UK Bank Plc doesn't have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But HSBC UK Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman