DRN-3140465
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank (Danske), wont 
reimburse him for the money he lost when he fell victim to an authorised push payment 
(APP) email intercept scam.
 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr M received an email which he thought had come from his daughter asking to 
pay some university fees. Unbeknown to Mr M the email had been intercepted, and on 
24 November 2019, he unfortunately ended up paying £625 to a fraudster and not to the 
university.
Mr M discovered the scam and contacted Danske on 6 December 2019 to report it and to 
see if it could do anything to help. 
Danske logged the fraud claim and contacted the receiving bank (where Mr M had made the 
payment to) on the same day to see if it could recover all or any of the funds for Mr M. The 
receiving bank replied the same day advising that no funds remained in the account so 
Mr Ms payment couldnt be recovered. 
Mr M complained to Danske about the matter in August 2020. Mr M was unhappy as the 
beneficiary name on the receiving account didnt match what he had input (which was the 
name of the university)  so Mr M considered his payment shouldnt have gone through. 
Mr M also had concerns about the receiving bank account which was used for fraudulent 
purposes and sought the details of the receiving bank account holder.
Ultimately, Danske said it wasnt responsible for the loss. Danske also explained that it had 
sought a recovery of the funds, but none remained. And in regard to Mr Ms request for 
further information about the receiving bank account, the receiving bank did not provide the 
information due to data protection laws. It said Mr M may wish to contact the police to see if 
it was able to help.
Within Danskes letter, it advised Mr M that he could refer the matter to our service if he 
remained unhappy. Mr M subsequently brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think Danske 
ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the 
circumstances or have a cause for concern that Mr M was at risk of financial harm or was 
falling victim to a scam.
They also considered Danske had acted in a timely manner when it was notified of the fraud 
but unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered. 
With regards to Mr Ms concerns about the receiving bank account  the investigator agreed 
that it wasnt something Danske could force the receiving bank to share. They also explained 
that at the time the payment was made  the facility for consumers to check the name of the 
account they were paying matched (often referred to as Confirmation of Payee  CoP)     
 wasnt in force. So they didnt think there was anything Danske could have done to prevent 
Mr Ms loss.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment. He considered the banks should share 
some of the blame for allowing a payment to go through without the names matching, with 
Mr M explaining that Danske now have this system in place. Mr M also remained unhappy 
that the name of the receiving bank account wasnt shared with him. Mr M also felt, as he 
had fallen victim to a scam, that he should at least be refunded some of the funds. And given 
he is a long-standing customer of Danske  it should take this into consideration, and it 
should make a commercial decision to refund him.
As Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I know this outcome will disappoint 
Mr M, but Ill explain my reasoning why.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to clarify that this decision solely focuses on the 
actions of Danske when Mr M made the payment and whether it could have done more to 
prevent the loss, and whether it took the appropriate actions once notified of the fraud.
Any concerns Mr M has about the receiving bank account and that it was potentially opened 
for fraudulent purposes, needs to be put to the receiving bank for it to consider and respond 
to separately. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.
It is the case that Mr M authorised the payment in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mr M is responsible for the payment. That remains the 
case even though Mr M was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Danske have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Danske acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr M when he made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did.Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Danske to the 
possibility Mr M was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
Im also mindful that there were enough funds in Mr Ms account and the payment wasnt 
clearing or emptying Mr Ms account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. Mr M had 
also made similar payments through transfers previously. So I dont think there were 
grounds for Danske to be suspicious Mr M may be a victim of fraud when he made the 
payment. All things considered, I think the fact that Danske didnt flag the payment as 
suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also gone on to look at whether Danske acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. Danske contacted the 
receiving bank promptly after Mr M had let it know he had been the victim of a scam but 
unfortunately, as a considerable amount of time had passed since the payment was made, 
no funds remained that could be recovered. 
With regards to Mr Ms concerns that the payment shouldnt have gone through, as the 
name he input (the name of the university) didnt match the name of the receiving bank 
account holder, I do understand Mr Ms frustrations here. However, at the time the payment 
was made, the routing of the payment/transfer was determined by the sort code and the 
account number. The facility for consumers to be able to check the name of the account 
matched (CoP) wasnt in force at the time Mr M made the payment and was implemented in 
2020. However, I do realise that this wont come as any comfort to Mr M.
I also understand Mr Ms frustrations about wanting to know the details of the receiving bank 
account. This isnt something Danske can force the receiving bank to share. And the 
receiving bank, due to data protection laws, are unable to share that information with Mr M. 
However as mentioned earlier, if Mr M is unhappy that the receiving bank account was 
possibly being operated fraudulently, then he can raise those concerns with the receiving 
bank.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M and I can understand why he wants to do all 
that he can to try and recover the money hes lost. He sent his money in good faith believing 
he was paying his daughters university fees. But overall, while I appreciate Mr Ms been the 
unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Danskes decision not to refund him in this instance was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because it followed Mr Ms instructions to 
make the payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And 
unfortunately, as no funds remained, it wasnt able to recover the funds or do anything to 
help Mr M further.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman