DRN-2501016
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) was slow to attend after he claimed 
under his landlords home emergency policy and then failed to identify the fault.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his emergency policy after his tenant reported that the electricity 
had gone off. GLI attended around 14 hours later, nearing midnight, but its electrician 
couldnt identify the fault. GLI told Mr H that hed need to claim under his home insurance 
because its electrician said:
the fault could be under the flooring so trace and access was needed;
there was evidence of mice, and
access to some rooms was denied because children were asleep. 
Mr H arranged for an independent electrician to attend, who identified and fixed the fault with 
a kitchen socket. Mr H asked GLI to pay the invoice but, despite asking him to provide a 
copy, it declined.
Mr H complained because he thought the delay attending was unacceptable; GLIs engineer 
shouldve identified the fault, and the engineer made inappropriate comments about the 
condition of his property to the tenant.
GLI said it attended within a reasonable time, but its engineer couldnt complete further work 
because the policy didnt cover trace and access, and there was evidence of mice.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought GLI should reimburse the cost of Mr Hs 
electrician because his policy shouldve covered the work that was done. However, our 
investigator didnt think there was an unreasonable delay attending to the emergency, nor 
did he think it was wrong for GLI to tell the tenant about the outcome of its visit.
Both Mr H and GLI disagreed. GLI said the cost of the repair wasnt covered under the 
policy. Mr H said the electrician exaggerated the work needed and he wants a written 
apology from GLI so he can reassure his tenant.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
I can understand that when Mr H reported the electrical fault to GLI, he thought it shouldve 
attended sooner than it did. GLI attended the same day and I can see that in the terms of the 
policy, it aims to get an approved contractor to you as quickly as possibleOccasionally, 
there may be a delay.
I accept that when providing this type of cover, GLI must prioritise according to need, for 
example loss of heating or vulnerability, and there will inevitably be delays. That said, I dont 
think the delay here was unreasonable. GLI attended the same day and, while I understand 
a late-night visit mightve been inconvenient for the tenant with young children, its unlikely 
that waiting until the following day wouldve been preferable to Mr H if he was already 
dissatisfied with the delay. Im satisfied that GLI attended to the matter within a reasonable 
time and I wont be requiring action in respect of this point.
Mr H was unhappy that GLI made inappropriate comments about the property to the tenant. 
Ive looked at the evidence and it seems that the electrician explained why work couldnt be 
completed that day, and made reference to the presence of mice. I can see why Mr H 
mightve thought the comments made him look bad in front of the tenant, but I dont think 
that was GLIs intention. The electrician responded to a visit request for the loss of supply, 
and commented on the presence of mice to explain why further work couldnt be done that 
day. The electrician also said a full inspection was needed. I dont think either of these 
comments were made for any reason other than to keep the tenant informed about progress. 
I think thats a reasonable thing to do given that the tenant wouldve been the person most 
affected by the fault, and I cant see any reason to ask GLI to take any action here.
Finally, Mr H says GLI shouldve identified and fixed the fault with the kitchen socket when 
its electrician carried out checks. Ive looked at the description of the work carried out by 
both electricians and the reports sound broadly similar. But GLI said the work wasnt 
covered, although it hasnt referred to a specific part of the policy. 
Ive looked at the policy documents, but I havent seen anything which supports GLIs 
position. Mr Hs policy provides the following cover (related to this complaint):
Section 3: Landlord Wiring Protect
What is covered under Section 3
We will cover an emergency in your home if it is caused by the complete failure of:
the permanently installed electrical wiring inside your insured property.
your wall sockets, switches
How we will deal with your claim under Section 3
When you call us, you will need to pay any excess shown in your certificate.
We will then arrange for an approved contractor to assess the situation to:
remove the emergency from your insured property; and
carry out an emergency repair to your insured property; or
carry out a permanent repair if this costs the same as an emergency repair.
How much will we pay
The most we will pay for each claim is £1,000 including VAT. We will pay for:
call out charges.
labour; and
covered parts.
General Conditions
11. The approved contractor may need to gain direct access to a hidden area to trace or 
resolve a problem. This may mean, for example, lifting carpets, floorboards or patios, or 
removing tiles or plaster from walls in your home.
The description of services on the invoice Mr H supplied show that, through a process of 
elimination, the electrician identified the fault with a single kitchen socket which was then replaced. This appears to be a tracing service followed by a relatively inexpensive 
permanent fix. I think all aspects of the service described here are covered in the policy 
sections shown above. In particular, Ill point out that the general conditions include a tracing 
service, despite GLI telling Mr H he wasnt covered for that. So, based on the information in 
the policy and the electricians invoice, Im inclined to agree with Mr H that the fault couldve 
been identified and fixed during GLIs visit in line with his policy. 
I understand GLI doesnt think its cost to complete the emergency socket repair wouldve 
been £375, which is what Mr H paid his electrician. However, if GLI had provided the service 
for which Mr Hs policy covered, it wouldve traced the fault and completed a temporary 
repair. And I think its possible the electrician wouldve completed the relatively simple and 
inexpensive permanent repair of replacing the socket. This means Mr H suffered a loss of 
£375 because GLI failed to provide the service for which hed paid. To put him back in the 
position he wouldve been in had GLI provided the appropriate service, I think its fair that it 
reimburses Mr H the full cost of his electrician. 
In summary, GLI failed to complete the trace and repair service for which Mr H was covered 
under his landlords policy. Because of that, he paid a private electrician to complete the 
work, so I think its fair that GLI reimburses the £375 cost to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Great 
Lakes Insurance SE must: 
pay Mr H £375 which reimburses him for the cost of employing a private electrician to 
complete the work it shouldve done under his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman