DRN-4244719
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays in West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) repairing his car, 
following a claim for damages, under his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr Ts car was damaged by a third party. He contacted West Bay to make a 
claim. It collected his car shortly afterwards and provided a dual control replacement vehicle 
for him to use. He didnt want the garage West Bay appointed to complete the repairs. Hed 
had a poor experience with that garage previously and so West Bay agreed to use another 
repairer. 
Mr T says the hire car was taken back after two weeks. He was told the repairing garage 
would provide a courtesy car  but none was available. Mr T spent long periods trying to get 
through to West Bay to find out what was happening and was passed between different 
departments. Eventually, he says his car was repaired and returned to him at the beginning 
of January 2023. Mr T says he incurred hire car and other travel costs, in addition to lost 
income. 
In its complaint response West Bay says there was a delay instructing a new garage. 
Confusion about the claim number also caused a delay in authorising the repairs. It 
apologised for these delays. West Bay says a courtesy car was provided in line with its 
policy terms. 
West Bay told Mr T it has different specialised departments, which explains why his calls 
may have been transferred to different areas. It apologised for not calling Mr T when it said it 
would. It explains it was experiencing high call volumes and apologised for the 
inconvenienced this caused Mr T. To acknowledge these failings West Bay offered him £250 
compensation. 
Mr T contacted our service as he thought West Bays response was unfair. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says there had been avoidable delays in repairing Mr Ts 
vehicle and hed shown he had to cancel work as he had no car. However, Mr T had a 
separate policy that guaranteed to provide a hire car. He says Mr T should reasonably have 
mitigated the loss of his car using this policy. This will have avoided the hire costs, train fare, 
and loss of income. He thought West Bays offer of £250 was fair in these circumstances. 
Mr T didnt agree. He says £250 isnt enough to cover West Bays delays. He says he doesnt 
know who else he was supposed to contact regarding a hire car, as hed tried his broker, 
West Bay, an accident claims company and the repairing garage. Because he didnt agree 
with this outcome, Mr T asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill explain 
why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that the repairs to Mr Ts car were covered by his policy. My focus here is 
on the delay Mr T says West Bay caused in arranging the repairs, and the impact this had. 
We expect an insurer to handle claims effectively in line with their policy terms and 
conditions. In this case it took from mid-October 2022 until the beginning of January 2023 to 
complete the repairs on Mr Ts car. I havent been provided with an engineers report to 
confirm the extent of the damage. But from the records and correspondence, this wasnt 
extensive damage that would be expected to take many months to repair. 
I can see from the records that Mr T didnt want his car repaired at the garage West Bay first 
advised. As hed had a poor experience of this garage previously, I dont think his request 
was unreasonable. I think West Bay handled this fairly in agreeing to a different repairer. 
However, this took some time to arrange, which it shouldnt. West Bay hasnt provided a 
reasonable explanation to account for this delay  in fact it acknowledges this wasnt 
acceptable. I also note its reference to confusion over the claim number. This wasnt Mr Ts 
fault  so West Bay is also responsible for the delay this caused. 
From the claim records, Mr Ts car was booked in for repairs in mid-November 2022. I agree 
with West Bay that this took too long to arrange. A record dated a few days prior to this 
shows Mr T was trying to find out where his car was, but nobody was able to tell him. The 
records confirm Mr T queried the provision of a courtesy car on a number of occasions. He 
was told a car would be provided, but I cant see that it was. 
I think the evidence is clear that West Bay handled Mr Ts claim poorly. This resulted in a 
poor standard of communication and delays. Ive thought about the lost income, travel and 
hire car costs Mr T highlighted. I agree that he waited longer than he should for West Bay to 
repair of his car. But I must also consider whether Mr T acted reasonably to mitigate the 
impact that the loss of his car had on him. 
When considering this point, I note Mr T has provided terms and conditions for a 
Guaranteed Hire Replacement Vehicle policy. This cover isnt provided by West Bay. The 
terms for this policy state the following:
If the Insured Vehicle is damaged and rendered Un Driveable by a single road traffic 
collision, fire, malicious damage, theft or attempted theft, (excluding if due to glass damage,) 
and the incident occurs within the Territorial Limits, We will arrange for a Hire Vehicle, for 
Your use during the reasonable repair period only or until 3 days following payment has 
been issued to You in settlement of Your vehicle claim in any event not exceeding the Limit 
of Cover.
The Hire Vehicles supplied are fully serviced, less than 3 years old and will be of the group 
or higher of that specified in Your policy Schedule
If the Insured Vehicle has been professionally adapted or converted to carry a driver or 
passenger with disabilities and another suitable vehicle is not available, We will reimburse 
Your transportation costs up to a maximum of £20.00 per for the period Your vehicle is 
unavailable for use, subject to the number of days cover provided under Your policy as 
shown on your policy schedule.
The exclusion section of these terms says:The following are not covered under this insurance: 
d) Any vehicle used for Driver Instruction/Tuition without dual controls.
The implication is that this policy is intended for vehicles used for tuition purposes where 
dual controls are in place. 
West Bays policy terms provide a courtesy car for the duration an insured vehicle is being 
repaired. The terms say this is subject to availability and that the aim is to keep the customer 
mobile during the repairs, as opposed to providing a replacement for the insured vehicle. 
The evidence indicates that Mr T had separate cover that wouldve provided a replacement 
car for the full period his car was with West Bays repairer. It also indicates this policy 
provides a vehicle suitable for Mr Ts business - as opposed to the courtesy car West Bay 
would provide. This wouldnt have dual controls and would be subject to availability. 
Theres no doubt that Mr T had a poor experience during West Bays handling of his claim, 
with respect to delays and poor communication. But the impact this had couldve been 
mitigated had he used the cover he had in place. West Bay wasnt able to provide a courtesy 
car due to availability issues with its repairer. But Mr T had a separate policy that guaranteed 
a replacement vehicle that he couldve used. I agree with our investigator that had Mr T done 
this he neednt have incurred costs for rail travel or the hire car he paid for. Similarly, he 
wouldnt have needed to cancel his work commitments. 
Having considered all of this I dont think West Bay handled Mr Ts claim well. For the 
inconvenience, frustration and delays he experienced it should pay him compensation. But I 
think the £250 it offered is fair. The remaining issues Mr T highlighted couldve been 
avoided. Because of this I cant reasonably ask West Bay to pay more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman