DRN-2149543
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1995 when    
Mr M applied for a credit card. Mr M says Barclay Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a meeting in-branch. Mr M says he was pressured into taking out 
the policy because it was implied he wouldnt get the credit card without it. 
Barclays has said Mr M would have been given the option to take the policy. And it has 
provided a copy of his credit card application form. Looking at the form, it asks applicants to 
select a box to say yes or no to the PPI. The yes box has been ticked on Mr Ms form and 
hes signed the application form. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments that he felt pressured to take the PPI. But he hasnt been able 
to say what Barclays said or did to make him feel this way, which is understandable given 
the time thats passed since the sale. I can accept the adviser may have told him it was a 
good idea to take the PPI. But this isnt the same as pressure. And given the fact the 
application form contained a clear no option, I think  had it been implied he had to take the 
PPI - Mr M would have had the opportunity to question why that was the case if the 
application form contained the option to decline it. 
So, I think its more likely Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI  
and he decided to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the 
PPI wouldve paid out on top the sick pay Mr M was entitled to, as well as helping him cover 
payments if he lost his job. And it didnt look like Mr M had any other means  such as 
savings  that he could have used. So, he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all the costs of the PPI 
to Mr M. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In this case I think Barclays offer is a fair way to resolve this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman