DRN-4118970
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as Moneyway and who Ill call Secure Trust.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint Secure Trust, but I think this car hasnt been of satisfactory quality
and Im expecting to tell them to allow Mr D to reject it.
The redress Im currently inclined to order considers some issues our investigator didnt
when he provided his view on this complaint. So, Im issuing a provisional decision in order
for Mr D and Secure Trust to provide any additional comments they may wish me to take on
board.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Secure Trust, who are also the
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant
circumstances.
Theres no dispute here that the car has a fault. The engine needs rebuilding because
theres been bore damage.
Secure Trust are only responsible for the quality of the car when it was supplied to Mr D.
They say that as the car failed after Mr D had been in possession of it for three years and as
Mr D had, by then, completed almost 38,000 additional miles, any underlying issues would
have been picked up. In support of that opinion, theyve explained that the car passed an
MOT in Feb 2020 with no advisories.
In April 2019, only a couple of months after Mr D took receipt of this car, Mr D reported an
engine fault to the dealership. In an email to him early the next month they explained:
the likely outcome is the vehicle will require a new engine, or failing that an extensive
engine repair.
That repair was never completed but job cards and emails provided by Mr D demonstrate
that he continued to experience issues with the engine. Spark plugs were replaced in May
2019 and an engine management light was reported in October 2020 and spark plugs were
replaced again along with the coils. The same issue was reported in February 2021 and a
further spark plug was replaced. Im persuaded, on balance, that these were signs the
engine was failing and I think the fault had been developing on the car since inception as the
2019 fault reports suggest.
Im not persuaded that because the car passed an MOT in February 2020 it would
demonstrate the engine wasnt deteriorating. I dont think the MOT would have considered
the engine performance and Im persuaded by the evidence provided from before, and after
the MOT, that problems existed at that time, albeit problems that wouldnt make the car
unroadworthy under an MOT.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault present at the
point of supply. But as there have been several repairs that have failed I think Secure Trust
should now allow Mr D to reject the car and end his agreement with them.
Putting things right
Secure Trust should collect the car at no cost to Mr D and they should end the finance
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit or part exchange that Mr D has paid. Mr D has explained
that he traded in a Vauxhall Astra but theres nothing listed on the finance agreement or on
the invoice. Mr D will therefore need to provide evidence of the part exchange if Secure
Trust are to refund it. And, as hes been deprived of that money, Secure Trust will need to
add interest to that refund.
I can see that many, if not all, of the engine repairs (spark plugs/coils) have been carried out
without charge. If there are repairs relating to this issue that Mr D has had to pay for and that
he can evidence, Secure Trust will need to refund the cost of those repairs, with interest. For
clarity, however, I can see that catalytic converter/s and a lambda sensor were replaced in
May 2021. Im not persuaded that they were related to the engine fault. Given the time Mr D
had been in possession of the car at that point I think its likely those issues were related to
wear and tear, and it wouldnt therefore be fair to tell Secure Trust to refund those costs.
In an email to the dealership in April 2019 Mr D explained that hed had the car recovered as
it had broken down with an engine fault. I think the cost of that recovery was therefore
incurred as a consequence of the car not being of satisfactory quality. If Mr D can provide a
receipt for that recovery Secure Trust will need to refund it, with interest.
Mr D hasnt always been provided with courtesy cars whilst his car has been in for repairs to
the engine. Where Mr D can evidence the cost of hire cars, Secure Trust should refund
those costs as they were incurred to keep Mr D mobile whilst he was paying for a car he
wasnt able to use.
On 15 October 2021 Mr D understandably stopped using the car because of the problems
with the engine. Its not fair for him to have been paying for a car he has been unable to use.
So, Secure Trust should refund any finance instalments hes paid since 15 October 2021 or
waive them if they were due and havent been paid.Mr D has also experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of this issue. Hes
had to take the car back to the garage, has been left without it, and has had to escalate his
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those
circumstances I think Secure Trust should pay him £200 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Secure Trust
Limited to:
Allow Mr D to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
Refund any deposit or part exchange that has been paid and can be evidenced by Mr
D. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement*.
Refund any finance instalments paid from, and including, 15 October 2021, in respect
of the loss of use Mr D has had from the car. Waive any that were due but havent
been paid. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement*.
Refund the cost Mr D incurred having the car recovered to the garage in April 2019 if
Mr D can provide a receipt. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*.
Refund the cost of any repair work completed to the car and relating to the engine
failure, on provision of receipts from Mr D. Add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement*.
Refund the cost of car hire Mr D incurred when the car was undergoing repairs
relating to the engine problem if Mr D can provide receipts. Add 8% simple interest
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. they must
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr D asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D accepted my provisional decision and Secure Trust didnt respond to it. So Ive seen no 
reason to change that decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Secure Trust Limited to:Allow Mr D to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
Refund any deposit or part exchange that has been paid and can be evidenced by Mr
D. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement*.
Refund any finance instalments paid from, and including, 15 October 2021, in respect
of the loss of use Mr D has had from the car. Waive any that were due but havent
been paid. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement*.
Refund the cost Mr D incurred having the car recovered to the garage in April 2019 if
Mr D can provide a receipt. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*.
Refund the cost of any repair work completed to the car and relating to the engine
failure, on provision of receipts from Mr D. Add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement*.
Refund the cost of car hire Mr D incurred when the car was undergoing repairs
relating to the engine problem if Mr D can provide receipts. Add 8% simple interest
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. they must
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr D asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman