DRN-3564331
The complaint
Mrs E complains that ReAssure Limited hasnt paid her the correct sum assured for a claim 
she made on a whole of life assurance policy following her husbands death. 
The policy was set up with a different firm but has since been transferred to ReAssure. So, 
for ease of reference, Ill refer to them only.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In August 2000 Mr and Mrs E set up a joint whole of life assurance policy with ReAssure. It 
was set up on a maximum cover basis and provided a sum assured of £15,000 for monthly 
premiums of £19.70. The policy quote said:
The level of life cover is the maximum allowed for this plan. It is guaranteed until the 
first review, which will take place after 10 years, when the premium is likely to 
substantially increase.
The policy schedule said:
POLICY REVIEW
The amount of the Guaranteed Sum Assured will be maintained for the first 10 years 
of this policy. Shortly before the 10th Policy Anniversary and thereafter at regular 
intervals, [ReAssure] will carry out a policy review to establish whether future 
premiums together with the Bid Value of Units already allocated to your policy, are 
likely to be sufficient to sustain the amount of the Guaranteed Sum Assured. At each 
review, [ReAssure] will allow for charges under the policy, and for a future Unit 
growth rate of 8.00% per annum or such other rate that it considers appropriate at 
that time, having taken the advice of the Appointed Actuary. 
If a policy review indicates that the amount of the Guaranteed Sum Assured cannot 
be maintained, you will be advised for the action required to ensure the original 
Guaranteed Sum Assured is sustained. 
This will involve an increase in premiums. If you do not wish to increase your 
premiums then you will be advised of the amount of reduction to the Guaranteed 
Sum Assured.
Mr E sadly died in September 2020 and so Mrs E made a claim under the policy. ReAssure 
paid about £6,300 to Mrs E as they said the sum assured had reduced because of a policy 
review.
Mrs E complained about this as she considered she was entitled to £15,000, the amount 
stated on the original policy documents. And she said they hadnt received any paperwork 
from ReAssure saying they wouldnt honour the original terms of the policy. Mrs E explained 
that she and her husband were under the impression the surrender values quoted were the 
amount they would receive if they cashed in the policy. 
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint and, in short, they said:
They wrote to Mr and Mrs E in 2010 advising that, as they hadnt heard from them 
regarding increasing the premiums to maintain the sum assured, it would decrease to 
about £6,300 with the premium remaining the same. Their letter also explained that 
they would review the policy again in May 2015. 
The May 2015 policy review didnt require an increase in premiums to maintain the 
sum assured of about £6,300. Therefore, no amendments were necessary.
They wrote to Mr and Mrs E in May 2020 advising that to maintain the sum assured 
the monthly premium would need to be increased by about £8.50. A follow up letter 
was sent saying the sum assured would decrease further in August 2020 as they 
hadnt heard anything from Mr and Mrs E. But they then received an instruction on 
13 July 2020 from Mr and Mrs E saying they wanted to maintain the sum assured of 
about £6,300 by increasing the monthly premiums to £28.18. 
This premium increase was confirmed in a letter sent to Mr and Mrs E dated 29 July 
2020. Therefore, theyve paid out the correct sum assured for the death claim. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman by a firm, that Ill refer to as N, on 
Mrs Es behalf. Our investigator didnt think ReAssure had to do anything further. He said, 
although Mr and Mrs E say they didnt receive any communication regarding the 2010 policy 
review, he was satisfied ReAssure sent it to the correct address. And this explained the 
options available  either maintaining the premiums for a reduced sum assured or increasing 
the premiums to maintain it. As no response was received, the sum assured was reduced. 
Our investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs E responded to the 2020 policy review by 
agreeing to increase their premiums. So, they wouldve known that their life cover had been 
reduced from £15,000 to about £6,300. Because of this, he thought ReAssure had paid the 
amount confirmed to Mr and Mrs E following the most recent policy review. 
N disagreed and have added the following points:
ReAssure relied on the Policy Review term which they consider unenforceable as it 
is contrary to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR) 1999, 
Schedule 2, para 1(c):
making an agreement on the consumer whereas provision of services by the seller 
or supplier is subject to a condition whose realisation depends on his own will alone
They said the decision to increase premiums was dependent on ReAssures will and 
so breached the regulations.
There was a precedent for the use of this argument in another insurance case dealt 
with by the Financial Ombudsman. In this case, the insurer made an ex gratia 
payment of £250,000.
It can be seen on the original proposal form that the Level Premium option was 
selected. And, on the ninth page of this form, this is defined as:The premium amount remains the same throughout life unless following periodical 
reviews of the policy, you decide to increase the amount of premium payable. 
It should however have said you decide to increase the amount payable rather 
than reduce the sum assured. That it doesnt is disingenuous, and seems to be an 
attempt to mislead. 
There is no mention Mr and Mrs E would have to increase their premium to maintain 
the sum assured. The Policy Review term wasnt available to Mr and Mrs E before 
the policy was issued and cover had started. This is an important policy condition and 
shouldve been disclosed at proposal stage. 
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Im not 
looking at the sale of the policy or how the policy reviews were carried out here. And so, any 
concerns in this respect  including whether important information wasnt disclosed at the 
time the policy was set up  will need to be raised as a separate complaint(s) before the 
Financial Ombudsman can consider it. As part of this decision, Im only considering whether 
ReAssure acted fairly and in line with the policy terms by paying the reduced sum assured 
they confirmed following the policy review(s). 
Furthermore, I understand N has referred to another case that they consider supports 
Mrs Es complaint. Due to its age, the Financial Ombudsman no longer has a record of the 
case. And, as N havent provided anything further evidence about it, Im unable to consider 
this case here. That said, we look at each case on its own merits and so Ive focussed on 
what I think is fair for Mrs Es complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly send my condolences to Mrs E. I know this will be a very difficult time and I 
dont underestimate her disappointment at receiving less than she was expecting from this 
policy. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Mrs E is hoping for, I dont think ReAssure 
has acted unfairly and for similar reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The reason for the lower sum assured is because it was reduced following a policy review 
that took place in 2010. N argues that this term is unenforceable as it breaches the UTCCR 
as they consider the decision to increase premiums (to maintain the sum assured) was 
dependent on ReAssures will alone. Ive given this careful consideration, but I disagree.
Mr and Mrs E set up a whole of life policy. The main purpose of this type of policy is to 
provide life cover, but it also has an investment element too. The future cost of life cover is 
however dependent on various factors including, but not limited to, investment growth, 
charges and mortality rates. Therefore, while ReAssure changed the premiums on 
Mr and Mrs Es policy, this wasnt because of their own will alone. It follows that I dont 
think the policy term breached the UTCCR.
Having reviewed the policy schedule, Im satisfied that the Policy Review term sets out 
there will be a review ten years after being set up and at regular intervals there afterwards. 
And that these reviews could result in a reduction in the sum assured if the policyholder(s) 
didnt want to increase the premiums. Im therefore satisfied ReAssure acted in accordance 
with the policy terms by carrying out the policy reviews in 2010, 2015 and 2020.The relevant policy review here is the one carried out in 2010. And I can see that ReAssure 
wrote to Mr and Mrs E at the time explaining that the premiums would need to increase for 
the sum assured to be maintained. Otherwise, the sum assured would decrease to about 
£6,300. I appreciate Mrs E says they never received this letter or any communication about 
the policy review at the time, but Im satisfied that it was correctly addressed and sent. So, I 
dont think I can fairly hold ReAssure responsible if it wasnt received due to postal reasons.
After this review, the sum assured didnt change. This was because the 2015 review didnt 
require any further amendments and as, for the 2002 review, Mr and Mrs E opted to 
increase their premiums to maintain the sum assured. Im therefore satisfied that, at the 
point Mr E passed away, the sum assured on the policy was the £6,300 which has since 
been paid. 
I understand Mrs E says they were under the impression the values quoted were the amount 
they would receive if the policy was surrendered (cashed in). I appreciate Mr and Mrs E may 
not have fully understood the contents of the review letters or what benefits the policy 
provided. However, Im satisfied that the review letters clearly set out the sum assured 
amount and so I dont think I can fairly hold ReAssure responsible for any misunderstanding 
on their part. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs E but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
ReAssure need to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman