DRN-3990501
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about how Covea Insurance plc handled their claim on their home 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had home insurance with Covea. In August 2021 they made a claim after they 
discovered an escape of water from their bathroom that was causing damage to the rooms 
below it. Covea accepted the claim and appointed contractors to carry out the drying and 
repairs.
However the drying took longer than expected, in part due to a leak from the dryer itself. This 
meant the property wasnt completely dry until March 2022. However it then took some time 
for repairs to begin. In June 2022 Mr and Mrs P made a complaint as they were unhappy 
with how long the claim had taken to progress and the impact this had been having on their 
lives. 
Covea upheld their complaint and offered £300 compensation to apologise for the delays 
and poor service. However Mr and Mrs P didnt think this was enough. They said theyd not 
been able to use their family bathroom throughout the time of the claim and had been unable 
to entertain guests due to the exposed brick and black mortar that remained in their lounge. 
They said theyd had to pay to host events at external venues at extra cost because of this 
and therefore thought Covea should pay more compensation to cover some of this cost. 
They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
thought Covea should increase the compensation offered to a total of £500.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree as they said theyd been having to use the en-suite bathroom in 
their sons room for a long period which had been inconvenient and theyd incurred costs for 
hosting events in external venues. They said they thought around £2,000 would be more 
suitable to go towards covering these costs. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an escape of water occurs at a property, it will usually cause a certain level of distress 
and inconvenience. Parts of the home may be unusable for a period of time and there will be 
disruption due to the necessary drying and repairs. When looking at this complaint, I cant 
hold Covea responsible for the distress and inconvenience that naturally occurs due to the 
escape of water. Instead I look at whether it caused any additional distress and 
inconvenience due to how its handled the claim, that could have been avoided. 
Here, the claim has taken much longer to resolve than I would have expected. By July 2022, 
when Covea responded to the complaint, repairs had only just begun. Thats nearly a year 
after the claim was first raised. 
Ive looked at the timeline of the claim and I agree Covea and its contractors have caused 
some of this delay. For example the drying shouldnt have taken seven months to complete 
and this was due to a leak from a faulty dryer and slow progress in getting the dryers 
installed initially. Further, once drying had completed, the claim didnt progress as promptly 
as Id expect in the months that followed. And while there were some issues with contacting 
Mr and Mrs P, this appears to be largely due to Covea and its contractors inactivity. 
Due to this I agree this claim has been handled badly and that Covea has caused 
unnecessary delays of a number of months. So Ive considered the impact of this.
Mr and Mrs P have said the whole family has had to use the en-suite bathroom in their sons 
bedroom throughout this time. And I agree this would be inconvenient. Further their house 
has been damaged so theyve felt theyve not been able to have guests round as they 
usually would. And there has been disruption from the dryers being in place for longer than 
expected and the subsequent additional leak from one.
While this impact is the unfortunate impact of an escape of water claim, as I agree Covea 
has delayed the claim I therefore think its caused Mr and Mrs P to live in these conditions for 
longer than they should have done. Which will have caused them additional distress and 
inconvenience. Due to this, and based on our approach to other similar cases, I think our 
investigators recommendation of £500 compensation is a fair one.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs P have said about the costs of hosting events at external 
venues. And while I understand their reasons for doing so, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Covea to cover these. While Mr and Mrs P may not have felt comfortable hosting events at 
the property, it was their choice to pay to do these elsewhere. And not an essential cost due 
to the claim or delays. I therefore wont ask Covea to contribute to these costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and direct Covea Insurance 
plc to pay them a total of £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman