DRN-2760168
The complaint
Mr K complains about Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetters role in facilitating a 
finance agreement between him and a third party. 
What happened
In December 2017 Mr K took out a finance agreement to help him acquire a car. The way 
this came about was like this, Mr K suggests he went to a car dealership looking for a car. At 
the car dealership Mr K found the car he wanted. However, he needed finance to help him 
acquire the car. It seems that the car dealership started to search for lenders. But according 
to Mr K it was unable to get him the best deals available. Therefore, as what Mr K calls a 
last resort the car dealership turned to RateSetter. RateSetter is not a lender in this 
complaint. Rather it acted an electronic system in relation to lending. In other words, it 
provided a platform to facilitate lending between Mr K and the lenders who ultimately lent to 
him.  These lenders were third parties. The lenders are not a party to this complaint.
Mr K suggests that he already had money troubles when he applied for this finance. 
Specifically, he suggests he was using payment plans to pay off several of his creditors. Mr 
Ks position is that RateSetter would have known this if it did the upfront checks it should 
have done. Mr K indicates that he was in no position to borrow and RateSetter should not 
have allowed his application to proceed any further.
Moreover, Mr K tells us, in any event, RateSetter did not do anything to establish if he would 
be able to repay the money in a sustainable manner, should he take out the finance. For 
example, he suggests he was not asked to provide and did not provide any information 
about his income or outgoings. 
Mr Ks stance is that he ultimately took out finance with the lenders that was unaffordable, 
and this was down to RateSetter. On this basis Mr K asks that RateSetter arrange to write 
off the balance of the finance and arrange for his credit file to be amended so as to remove 
the default that is currently registered on it in relation to the finance. Mr K also told us that 
the car was repossessed due to him falling behind with the repayments.
RateSetters stance is that it complied with its regulatory obligations to establish Mr Ks 
creditworthiness before it did anything else. Specifically, it tells us it considers several factors 
including (but not limited to) credit profile, credit history and affordability before a prospective 
borrower is put in touch with a lender by it. It added decisions are made based on 
information given in the application itself and obtained from various Credit Reference 
Agencies. It indicates that all of these checks were done in Mr Ks individual case and came 
back satisfactory. It suggested Mr K did supply it with all necessary information including his 
income which it was able to check independently.  However, it did not check Mr Ks 
outgoings. It does not agree that it acted inappropriately in this instance in putting Mr K into 
contact with lenders on its platform.
Dissatisfied with RateSetters response Mr K complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
RateSetter appeared to accept this recommendation, Mr K did not. In summary, he repeated 
his dissatisfaction that he had been unable to secure lending from what he called the high 
street and had turned to the lenders introduced to him by RateSetter instead. He also added 
that the reason he had been declined for credit by these other lenders was because of his 
credit rating. Mr K indicated that he had never been asked about either his income or 
expenditure when applying to RateSetter. He noted that RateSetter had a figure for his 
income in its records, but he suggested that figure was incorrect (being far more than his 
actual income). Mr Ks suggestion is that the car dealership without his knowledge, or 
consent. provided this figure.  
Further, Mr K reiterated his view that because RateSetter did not carry out the checks it 
should have done this, by extension, led to him taking out finance he could not afford. He 
added that this in turn ultimately led to the repossession of the car and the default on his 
credit file. Mr K told us again he had repayment plans in place with several third party 
lenders when he approached RateSetter. Moreover, he underlined that the negative 
information on his credit file in relation to this finance is now impacting on his ability to get 
other credit.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When RateSetter operated an electronic system in relation to lending to Mr K under a peer-
to-peer agreement (P2P agreement) with the third party, it was a regulated firm. This 
meant it had to follow the relevant regulations at the time. The regulations in December 2017 
were different to the current regulations, it is those regulations that were current in 
December 2017 that I am referring to here.
In brief, under those regulations RateSetter had to make sure it carried out an assessment of 
the creditworthiness of the prospective borrower, that is Mr K.. In particular, it had to 
consider the potential for the commitments under the P2Pagreement to adversely impact the 
prospective borrowers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the 
business was aware at the time the P2P agreement was to be made. It also had to take 
account of the prospective borrowers ability to make repayments in a sustainable manner 
for the entire duration of the agreement.
Further, RateSetter had to carry out other regulatory obligations to the same extent as if it 
was the lender. In particular, amongst other things, it had to put in place clear and effective 
policies and procedures to make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment.  RateSetter 
was obliged to take account of relevant information when making this assessment. 
Moreover, it needed to take steps to ensure that information was complete and correct. In 
addition, it needed to give the prospective borrower the opportunity to see any information 
that was included in an application for the agreement if the prospective borrower did not fill in 
this information themselves. The extent and scope of the assessment had to be dependent 
upon and proportionate to factors which might have included:
The type of credit
The amount of creditThe cost of credit
The financial position of the prospective borrower at the time of seeking the credit.
Also, RateSetter was also obliged to take account of obligations that were relevant to 
lenders (even though it was not a lender) and use that as guidance. The guidance indicated 
amongst other things, the factors it might consider when deciding if its assessment was 
proportionate.
Mr K was seeking a substantial amount of credit (around £24,000 in total) over a relatively 
long term (60 months) under a type of an agreement that placed significant responsibilities 
on him, and which would leave him facing significant potential consequences if he failed to 
meet his obligations to make repayments. Moreover, RateSetter was aware that Mr K was 
also servicing pre-existing debts prior to his application. In these circumstances I think it 
would have been proportionate to look at Mr Ks actual income and outgoings as part of the 
creditworthiness assessment. I appreciate that RateSetter has suggested it did check Mr Ks 
income independently, but it has not told us what it did to check this in detail. Rather it has 
indicated that the check it did showed that it was likely that Mr K had given it correct 
information about his income. But it has not explained how that check worked or how it 
established that it was likely Mr K had given accurate information. RateSetter did not check 
Mr Ks outgoings. Therefore, it is hard to see how it could have known, with any degree of 
certainty what his outgoings amounted to. In particular, it is not clear how it established that 
Mr Ks outgoings were at such a level that even when his outgoings were taken into account 
he still had enough income to make the repayments. For all of these reasons I dont think 
that in the individual circumstances of this particular complaint RateSetters assessment 
went far enough.
That said, I cant fairly or reasonably uphold Mr Ks complaint simply on the basis that I dont 
think RateSetter did proportionate checks. Rather, I have to also be satisfied that if 
RateSetter had done all the checks it should have done it would have found that Mr K could 
not afford to take out the loan with the lenders RateSetter introduced him to. To this end I 
have taken a look at the information I have got about Mr Ks wider financial situation at the 
time that he made his application to RateSetter.
Mr K describes how the lenders RateSetter introduced him to were by no means his first 
choice of lender. He indicates that he was unable to get finance via any other means due to 
his credit rating. Mr K invites me to infer from this that no reasonable lender was prepared to 
lend this amount to him at this time. It follows that he also invites me to infer it was therefore 
inappropriate for RateSetter to send his application to the lenders on its platform.  However, 
just because Mr K saw going to RateSetter as a last resort does not mean that he was not 
able to afford to borrow and therefore RateSetter ought not to have processed his 
application and sent it to the lenders. We have not been supplied with information from the 
third parties who Mr K says declined to provide credit to him at this time. Neither do we have 
any information from these third parties explaining that they declined to lend on the basis of 
what they found out about Mr Ks credit rating. So, I dont agree I can fairly draw the 
inferences Mr K suggests I should. 
Mr K also suggests that when he was making his application to RateSetter, he had already 
fallen so behind with other debts that he had to set up payment plans. But the credit file 
information I have seen shows that the status of all his open credit accounts was normal. 
Even though he did have some late payments. It follows that RateSetter would not 
reasonably have been aware of the payment plan situation.
I note that Mr K tells us he was not asked by RateSetter to supply any information about his 
income. However, given that Mr Ks application to RateSetter could not have been 
processed without income information I find this unlikely. Mr K also suggests, in any event, 
the income figure that was provided to RateSetter was inaccurate. Mr Ks position is that the 
car dealership came up with the income figure. But in the circumstances, since I have already found it is likely that Mr K was asked about his income, I am not persuaded that the 
car dealership would come up with a figure from out of nowhere and take it upon itself to 
send it to RateSetter without Mr Ks say-so. Im satisfied that if Mr K had been asked by 
RateSetter at the time about expenses he would have given the expenditure figures that our 
investigator mentioned in her view. And on the basis of those figures it would have appeared 
to RateSetter that he could afford the repayments.
Further, RateSetter was not obliged to take ask for Mr Ks bank statements to verify what he 
said about his income. I have looked at the bank statements Mr K sent us, in order to get a 
better understanding of Mr Ks financial situation at the relevant time. The statements all 
relate to one account. But it is not clear if this is Mr Ks only bank account. He had 
significant, unexplained (on the face of it) sums of money coming in and out of the account. 
Some of these payments appear to have come from other accounts that he had. This makes 
it difficult for me to say what Mr Ks wider financial situation most likely was at the time. 
Specifically, I cant tell on balance, from the information I have that the lending that 
RateSetter facilitated via its platform was unaffordable. That being so I have no proper 
grounds for saying that RateSetter did not act correctly. It follows I am not going to ask 
RateSetter to provide the remedy that Mr K asks for nor am I going to ask it to do anything 
else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman