DRN-4489563
Complaint
Miss O has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with unaffordable 
loans. 
Background
L2G initially provided Miss O with a loan for £250 in February 2021. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £1,028.08, 
was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £57.14. Miss O repaid this loan in full within a few 
days.
In February 2022, L2G then provided Miss O with a second loan for £450. This loan had an 
APR of 770.0% and an 18-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£1,665.00, was due to be repaid in 18 instalments of £92.50. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided 
these loans as proportionate checks would have shown they were unaffordable. 
L2G disagreed with our investigators assessment and consequently asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Os complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Os complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Miss O would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss O wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss O would be 
able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
L2G provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Os ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss O. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Miss O undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss O. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss O prior to 
providing her with these loans. It also carried out credit checks. Miss O declared that she 
was earning around £3,500.00 a month at the time of her loans. L2G checks suggested Miss Os income was closer to £3,200.00 and it calculated her 
expenditure to be close to £2,800.00 based what it saw on her credit file. In its view this left 
her with enough to cover the payments to these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But L2Gs credit checks clearly show Miss O 
was significantly indebted had a history of arrangements to pay, was now over the limit on 
one of her revolving credit accounts, towards the limit on her overdraft and also had been 
regularly applying for further credit. This was in circumstances where Miss O had also taken 
out a short-term loan between loans 1 and 2 either. 
So while Miss O may not have had any accounts in default or had any County Court 
Judgments taken out against her, I think it would be incorrect to conclude this meant that she 
was in a great financial position, or that credit searches in themselves meant that Miss O 
could repay these loans without difficulty or borrowing further. 
Furthermore, as Miss O was over the limit on one of her accounts, Id dispute that she was 
up-to-date with her commitments. Id also point out that even if Miss O applied for a short-
term loan between loan 1 and 2 because she was refinancing, as L2G argues, I think that 
this in itself ought to have been concerning. At best this ought to have suggested that Miss O 
might have been borrowing to repay and L2G ought to have taken further steps to ensure 
this wasnt the case.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Miss Os actual 
monthly expenditure. As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it 
carried out before providing Miss O with her loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Miss O
would have been unable to repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Miss O would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Miss O could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, Im satisfied that it is 
more likely that not that Miss O was borrowing further to repay previous loans, or at the very 
least borrowing to fill the hole that repaying previous loans was leaving in her finances. 
In my view, proportionate checks would have shown L2G that Miss O was struggling and 
most importantly the reasons for this would have been clear. I think its likely that Miss O was 
borrowing this loan to use in the same way as previous lending, which meant she was 
unlikely to be able to repay it without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse 
consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss O would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Miss O was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss O in some other way.
Did Miss O lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Miss O paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss O
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Os complaint for L2G to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss O paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss O to the date of settlement;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Miss O made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £450 originally lent. If Miss O has 
already paid more than £450 on this loan, whether to L2G or any third-party debt 
collector, then L2G should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Miss O. If an outstanding balance remains after all 
adjustments have been made, L2G can use any compensation due from loan 1 to 
reduce and/or clear the balance on loan 2.
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Os credit file as a result of loan 
1. L2G only needs to remove adverse information, it is responsible for recording, as a 
result of loan 2 should no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have 
been made. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that L2G sold an outstanding balance on loan 2 to a third-party debt purchaser. 
So it will need to either buy the debt back from the third-party and make the necessary 
adjustments, pay an amount to the third party (equivalent to that needs to be made on    
Miss Os account) in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Miss O an 
amount (equivalent to the interest, fees and charges which need to be refunded) to ensure 
that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Os complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman