DRN-2607924
The complaint
Mr B has complained that his motor insurer, Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe), is 
unfairly charging him for costs it incurred in defending a claim against his policy, which, it 
says are part of Mr Bs £3,000 all sections excess. 
All references to Calpe include its agents. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in January this year. An extract 
from that decision follows:
In December 2015 Mr B was involved in an accident with a third party which he didnt think 
he was at fault for. He didnt claim on his policy with Calpe but instructed solicitors who 
made a claim on his behalf to the third party insurer. The claim was settled on a without 
prejudice basis and Mr B recovered damages including damages for personal injury and 
vehicle damage from the third party insurer. 
In January and February 2016 Calpe received a claim from the third party and its passenger 
against Mr Bs policy for the same accident. The third parties were making their own 
personal injury claims and the driver was also making a vehicle damage claim. Calpe denied 
liability on Mr Bs behalf. The third party driver then issued proceedings against Mr B in April 
2018. Calpe instructed its own solicitors who successfully defended the claim.
Though Calpe was successful, it wasnt able to recover its own costs from the other side. 
These came to £2,559 and were made up of £2,274 in legal fees and £285 in investigation 
costs. As Mr Bs policy has a £3,000 excess it tried to recover these costs from him. 
Mr B wasnt happy and complained. He said as he wasnt at fault for the accident and as the 
claim had been successfully defended he didnt understand why Calpe didnt recover its 
costs and why he was responsible for them. 
Calpe said even though it was successful the judge didnt award it its costs because of a 
change in the law. And that as Mr Bs policy has an all sections excess, he is responsible for 
the first £3,000 of costs incurred in dealing with any claim against the policy. It said it was 
obliged to investigate any claim made against Mr Bs policy and that its investigations could 
include fees incurred for obtaining external legal advice. It said such amounts would be 
recorded as a claims payment and if applicable would form part of the policy excess. It 
added that Mr B was aware of his £3,000 excess at all times. So Calpe rejected Mr Bs 
complaint but confirmed that the claim had been recorded as non-fault.
Mr B then complained to us. He said he didnt think the fee he was being charged was 
justified and wanted us to overrule Calpe. He said this matter has taken up a lot of his time 
and caused him a lot of stress. He also said that Calpe had instructed debt collectors to 
recover the debt from him which was very distressing.
Our investigators view and his exchanges with Calpe
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that as Calpe wouldve been aware of the change in the law it shouldve warned Mr B that 
there was a good chance it wouldnt recover its costs so that he could get his own legal 
advice or arrange alternative funding. He also thought that as the legal proceedings have 
now been concluded and Mr B was unlikely to be able to reopen them to claim his excess, 
he has been prejudiced by Calpes actions. He felt Calpe shouldve counterclaimed for Mr 
Bs excess to prevent this from happening. The investigator also said that Calpe couldve 
potentially deducted Mr Bs vehicle damage from the excess because he didnt claim for it 
from his policy- and this is in the policy terms.
Calpe said if it had counterclaimed for its costs/ the excess such a claim wouldve been 
struck off as the excess wasnt payable at that time. Calpe repeated that it would have never 
been able to recover its legal fees because of the change in the law but also that Mr B was 
always aware of his £3,000 excess. It also said the excess is an uninsured loss and not its 
responsibility. Calpe went on to say that Mr B shouldve taken advice from his own solicitors 
regarding his uninsured losses. 
Our investigator said it wouldnt be reasonable to assume Mr B wouldve known to ask for 
independent legal advice on this issue if he wasnt warned about the risk of being liable for 
Calpes costs. 
Calpe said it couldnt have known that the third party would make a claim almost three years 
after the accident and what the costs would be. But our investigator still didnt feel Calpe had 
been clear with Mr B about the options that were available to him. He didnt think knowing 
the exact amount of the legal costs was relevant because it knew that the maximum was 
£3,000. He said if Calpe was able to provide any evidence that it made Mr B aware of the 
fact that he might be deemed to be responsible for its legal costs it should provide it. 
Calpe responded to say that it wouldnt be possible to recover legal costs/the excess if it 
hasnt been incurred yet. The judge would have struck it out. Calpe also told us that Mr Bs 
own solicitor advised him not to attend the trial and give evidence. If he hadnt then the case 
would have had to have been settled on best possible terms and wouldve cost more. So 
Calpe telling Mr B that that advice was wrong and that he should attend court saved him 
further costs. 
Our investigator said this wasnt relevant to the main issue which was that Calpe didnt try to 
recover Mr Bs excess from the other side. He also said that what Calpe said suggests that 
charging the excess was something it considered down the line. He again asked Calpe to 
show that it hadnt prejudiced Mr B by its actions. He repeated that neither Calpe nor its 
solicitors warned Mr B about the change in the law so he could look into getting funding. 
Calpe said it had legal advice that no defendant can submit its costs to recover before or 
after the hearing. It also said legal expenses cover cant be backdated. 
The case was then passed to me for a decision. Before I issued my decision, we went back 
to Calpe with an article written by its solicitors which said that the third party claim may not 
have had to have been considered under this costs regime (which Calpe said was why it 
wasnt able to recover any costs) as it was a mixed claim in that it involved personal injury 
claims as well as vehicle damage. The article suggested that if this was a mixed claim 
Calpe may have been able to recover its costs from the other side. We highlighted a part of 
the article which said since there is no limitation on claiming costs in the first instance, 
parties may also be encouraged to re-visit concluded cases dating back as far as 2013 in 
order to establish where a claim for costs can be made in these circumstances.Calpe responded as follows: 
In the context of mixed claims, parties can seek an order for recovery where the 
circumstances arise including an element of exaggeration on non(e) PI heads of claim such 
as credit hire. The claim here was for PI and vehicle damage and I am not aware of any 
alleged exaggeration of the vehicle hire claim or any other circumstances which would give 
rise to a situation in which we should seek recovery.
What Ive provisionally decided- and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And as I said above, Im considering 
upholding it. 
The policy
Mr Bs policy defines the excess as:
.. the amount You must pay towards any claim including costs. You are responsible for the 
excess even if the incident is not your fault. The Excess applies to all Sections of this 
insurance..
The policy also says that The Excess applies to damage or injury claims by a third party.
There is also a section in the policy which says that if the insured suffers damage to their car 
but chooses not to claim on their own insurance for this damage, they will still be liable for 
the excess in respect of any third party claim or any other amounts incurred by Calpe if it 
arises from the same event. A deduction of the excess amount in respect of those payments 
may be made if certain criteria are satisfied including reporting the damage to Calpe within 
14 days of the event, Calpe agreeing the value prior to the repairs etc. 
In its final response Calpe also referred to a part of the policy which states that it is: 
 obliged to investigate and handle any claims on a Policy by a customer or a third party 
regardless of fault or liability. Such investigations may involve expenditure on various fees 
and services such as  external legal or other professional adviceThese expenditures are 
associated with the adjustment, recording, and settlement of claims, other than the claim 
payment itself. Such amounts are recorded as a claims payment and if applicable will form 
part of The Excess sought to be repaid to the Underwriters. 
The court proceedings
Mr B told us that he instructed his own solicitors who pursued a claim on his behalf and 
recovered damages for injury and other expenses as well as vehicle damage. He said Calpe 
didnt rely on the settlement when defending the claim on his policy.
Calpes solicitors said they couldnt rely on this settlement when defending the court 
proceedings that the third party issued, because the third party insurer settled Mr Bs claim 
on a without prejudice basis. I have seen correspondence saying the offers made to Mr B 
were on this basis and this was also confirmed by his solicitors- so I think Calpe was correct 
to say that. From what I understand this means that the third party insurer agreed to 
compensate Mr B but didnt formally admit liability on behalf of the third party. My 
understanding is that this meant that the third party wasnt prejudiced by the settlement and 
so was able to bring his own claim against Mr B and/or his insurer- which is what happened. 
For these reasons, I think Calpe was acting fairly and reasonably and in line with legal 
advice when it said it couldnt rely on the fact that Mr B received a settlement from the third 
party insurer when defending the claim against his policy. Calpe said it had no option but to defend the proceedings. I agree. If a third party decides to 
make a claim against a motor insurer, the insurer has to deal with it whether it is by admitting 
liability, denying it or even settling on a without prejudice basis. And if the third party 
continues to pursue the claim after liability is denied and the insurer feels it should be 
defended, I think it should continue to defend it. It has no control over the third partys 
actions. 
So I think it was reasonable that Calpe instructed solicitors to defend the claim in court. The 
matter went all the way to trial which Calpe won and which I understand Mr B attended and 
gave evidence at.
Mr B said he doesnt understand why, after winning at trial, he still has to pay legal fees. My 
understanding of personal injury litigation is that, in broad terms, it used to be the case that 
the losing party paid the costs of the winning party. So under the old rules, Calpes solicitors 
wouldve recovered their costs from the other side. But, as far as I understand, these rules 
changed in April 2013 when qualified one-way cost shifting (QOCS) was introduced. My 
understanding of QOCS is that even if a claimant loses their personal injury claim in court, 
they still dont have to pay the defendants costs (apart from in some instances which dont 
apply here such as fraud etc). Calpes barrister said that the judge simply preferred Mr Bs 
evidence over the claimants. And Ive also seen the court order which supports what Calpe 
has said in terms of not recovering its costs. 
However, as I said above we referred Calpe to an article written by its solicitors which 
referred to the case of Brown v Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis & Anor 2019, in 
which the Court of Appeal found that QOCS did not automatically protect the claimant from 
adverse costs orders where the claim for damages included an element unrelated to the 
personal injury claim such as credit hire or vehicle damage as this would be a mixed claim. 
The article also says that the decision as to whether QOCS applies or not would fall to the 
judges discretion. The article goes on to say that even if this argument wasnt raised with 
the judge at the time, as there is no limitation on claiming costs in the first instance, parties 
are encouraged to revisit concluded cases dating back to 2013 to establish where a claim for 
costs can be made. 
Calpes response was that this wasnt a case where it could recover its costs as there was 
no element of exaggeration or any other circumstances in which a costs order can be 
enforced under QOCS. 
However, my understanding of Brown and of the article that I referred Calpe to is that this 
isnt right. A claim that involves personal injuries and vehicle damage, for example ,may be 
considered to be a mixed claim and for that reason it may not be considered to be a QOCS 
claim at all. I understand that in Brown the court held that there was no justification for 
allowing claims which were not claims for damages for personal injury to attract automatic 
QOCS protection. This exception to the usual QOCS rule (that costs cant be recovered from 
a claimant) deals with the situation where a claim for damages for personal injury is only one 
of the claims being made in the proceedings. In such circumstances, the automatic nature of 
the QOCS protection falls away and it becomes a matter of the judge's discretion. 
My understanding is that claims of exaggeration or fundamental dishonesty etc. which Calpe 
has referred to may be made in cases where QOCS does apply but the defendant is able to 
recover its costs due to the claimants conduct. 
I, therefore, dont think Calpes response is satisfactory as I dont think it deals with my query 
as to whether there was a missed opportunity to recover costs on Mr Bs behalf due to it 
being a mixed claim and if not whether it is currently considering revisiting the case to 
establish whether a claim for costs can be made. If Calpe is unable to provide a satisfactory response to these queries in time to respond to this provisional decision I will decide that it is 
not fair or reasonable to pursue Mr B for its costs as it hasnt, seemingly, made any 
reasonable attempts to recover them from the other side- or at least given any consideration 
as to whether it should do so.  
Even if it isnt possible for Calpe to recover its costs from the other side is it fair and 
reasonable to recover them from Mr B?
Calpe said the policy has an all sections excess of £3,000 which Mr B has always been 
aware of. It said Mr B is responsible for the first £3,000 paid out for the claim and this is why 
it is seeking to recover these costs from him. 
Calpe said it would have never been able to recover its legal fees from the other side due to 
QOCS. Even if that is correct, I think Calpe and its solicitors would have known this from the 
start of the legal proceedings. As I said above, QOCS was introduced in 2013, well before 
the trial. 
We asked Calpe why it didnt seek to recover Mr Bs excess during the court proceedings- 
as it should have known it was likely to be payable and as it says it didnt expect to recover 
its costs. It said it asked its solicitors and they said the judge would have struck this claim out 
because it hadnt been incurred yet. Calpe referred to this as the costs (excess). But as 
Calpe must know, the legal fees and the excess are, normally, separate. The excess is an 
uninsured loss and normally forms part of the claimants damages claim and is included in 
the pleadings (for example the particulars of claim or the defence and counterclaim). Costs 
are claimed at the conclusion of the trial and do not form part of the claimants claim for 
damages. 
I appreciate that Calpe may not have known until the conclusion of the trial what the legal 
fees came to but it wouldve known that Mr B had an excess of £3,000 all along. As I said, 
the excess is an uninsured loss and normally recovered from the other side. Also my 
understanding is that, in personal injury litigation, its not uncommon for parties to claim for 
future losses such as loss of earnings or pension. And I understand that the courts agree to 
award compensation for those heads of claim. So even though Calpe hadnt yet charged Mr 
B his excess it hasnt adequately explained why it wouldnt be recoverable from the other 
side if it was very likely that it would be payable. If Calpe has any further evidence or legal 
advice on this point Id be happy to consider it.   
In any event, the court proceedings have now been concluded and my understanding is that 
Mr B recovering his excess from the other side is now very unlikely. My understanding is that 
if he were to start his own proceedings against the third party in order to recover his excess, 
the court would be very likely to strike them out as an abuse of process. 
Calpes actions have left Mr B in a situation where he has been asked to pay an excess for a 
claim he wasnt at fault for and where he isnt able to recover it from the other side- which is 
what he would have been able to do under normal circumstances. So even if the excess is 
payable under the policy terms- which is what Calpe has argued- I dont think its fair or 
reasonable for Calpe to rely on these terms in these very specific circumstances. 
Calpe has pointed out that the excess is an uninsured loss and, therefore, not its 
responsibility. That may be the case, but I still think that Calpe and its solicitors had a 
responsibility to warn Mr B that he could, potentially, be liable for his full excess even if he 
wasnt found to have been at fault for the accident. I havent seen any evidence of Calpe or 
its solicitors doing this. And I think Mr B, like most consumers, would assume that if he won 
he wouldnt have anything to pay. And equally, unless warned, he wouldve had no reason to 
seek independent legal advice on this point - which is something Calpe suggested he 
shouldve done. I think the fact that Mr B found out that his full excess was due only after the case was concluded; and when there was little he could do to prepare for this; would have 
caused him a lot of distress. I think Calpe is responsible for this and I think it should pay him 
£500 in compensation. 
Notwithstanding the above, it has been a long standing approach of ours that costs incurred 
by insurers such as their own investigation fees etc. are not something that insurers should 
be passing on to their insured if they arent able to recover them from the other side. I think 
the costs that Calpe is trying to recover from Mr B would fall into this category. I dont think 
its fair or reasonable to pass these onto Mr B.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am considering upholding Mr Bs complaint against Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited. It must stop pursuing Mr B for the excess payment in relation to 
this claim and it must update all databases (internal or external) to mark this as a non-fault 
claim- this is something it said it has done already. It must also pay him £500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr B agreed with my provisional 
decision.
Calpe said it felt the compensation I was proposing was excessive. It said it doesnt 
understand how the outcome would have been different in terms of distress and 
inconvenience if Mr B had been warned that his excess may be payable before the court 
hearing. It added that Mr B would have read his policy documents and would have been 
aware that his excess may still be payable for legal fees incurred in defending the claim. It 
said a fairer compensation amount would be £150. 
I have taken Calpes comments into account, however, I still feel that a £500 compensation 
award is more appropriate in these circumstances. I say this because in awarding this level 
of compensation I havent only taken into account the fact that Mr B wasnt warned about the 
excess but also the fact that by the time he found out there was nothing he could do about it. 
I think he would have found this very distressing and frustrating, especially because his own 
claim against the third party insurer was successful and also because Calpe successfully 
defended the claim against his own policy. But I also note that Mr B said he was being 
chased for payment by debt collectors. I think that, alone, would have been very distressing 
and for that reason I think a £500 award is more in line with what we would award in similar 
situations.
As there have been no other comments in relation to the other findings I made in my 
provisional decision I have no reason to change any of those findings.  
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint against Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited. It must stop pursuing Mr B for the excess payment in relation to this claim 
and if it hasn't done so already, it must update all databases (internal or external) to mark this as a non-fault claim. It must also pay him £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If Calpe Insurance Company Limited pays interest and considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman