DRN-4332123
The complaint
Ms L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made her account dormant 
without giving her notice. She is unhappy that Halifax wants to take copies of her 
identification documents before it will reactivate the account.
What happened
Ms L holds a savings account with Halifax. In 2021, she discovered that the account had 
become dormant and that she would need to provide identification in order to reactivate it. 
Ms L took her identification documents into the branch and showed them to the branch 
manager. But the manager wanted to take copies and send them to a central team. Ms L 
didnt want her documents to be photocopied, so Halifax says that the manager couldnt 
reactivate the account. It remains dormant.
Ms L raised a complaint with Halifax. She said she couldnt see why Halifax needed to copy 
her documents and felt it was holding her account to ransom. She also said that she hadnt 
known the account was dormant as Halifax hadnt contacted her about it.
Halifax apologised that it hadnt contacted Ms L to tell her that her account was going to 
become dormant. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong in relation to Ms Ls 
identification. Halifax explained why it needs to take copies of the documents and how it 
deals with the copies. But Ms L remained very unhappy about the situation and came to this 
service for help to resolve the issue.
Our Investigator explained that we cant ask Halifax to change its internal procedures as they 
adhere to the relevant regulations. But he thought that Ms L had been given incorrect 
information over the phone about the copying of her documents. So he suggested that 
Halifax to pay her compensation of £100. 
Halifax didnt fully agree with our Investigators view, but it agreed to his recommendation in 
order to resolve the complaint. But Ms L asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. She doesnt think its fair that Halifax is insisting on obtaining and copying her 
identification documents in order for her to access her own money, especially as she didnt 
know that her account had become dormant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms Ls account hadnt been used for several years. So I think it was 
reasonable for Halifax to treat it as dormant. But I think it should have written to her first, to 
give her notice of this. Ms L says it didnt do this. Halifax says its system doesnt show 
whether any letters were sent to Ms L at the time. On balance, I dont think Halifax did give 
Ms L notice. It has apologised for this which I think is a fair response, particularly as Halifax 
still holds Ms Ls funds and has confirmed that the account can be reactivated.
Halifax has extensive obligations under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, Money Laundering 
Regulations and related legislation. It is required to have systems and processes in place to 
comply with the regulations. These include customer identification and due diligence 
measures. These obligations cover the entire period of a relationship with a customer. 
Halifax says that its process for reactivating dormant accounts involves verifying the 
customers identity, in line with these measures. Thats what I would expect. So, I think its 
reasonable that Halifax has asked Ms L to provide identification documents before it will 
reactivate her account.
I understand that Ms L doesnt object to showing her identification documents to Halifax: she 
has already shown them to the branch manager. What shes unhappy about is the fact that 
Halifax wants to take copies of the documents. The regulations which Halifax has to comply 
with arent prescriptive as to exactly how businesses should carry out customer identification 
or what measures they should put in place. So, businesses have some discretion and its up 
to individual organisations to decide upon and implement their own procedures.
Halifax has outlined its process for reactivating dormant accounts. This involves taking 
copies of the customers identification and sending these to a specific team. Ms L isnt happy 
with this. But its not the role of this service to tell businesses how to implement the 
regulations or to direct them to change their procedures. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I find that Halifax has a policy in place, which it followed 
here. I think its approach is reasonable and that it has applied it fairly here.
So, if Ms L wishes to reactivate her account, she will need to provide the identification 
documents which Halifax requires and allow these to be copied in line with Halifaxs process. 
But Ms L says that she has spoken to Halifax on the telephone more than once and has 
been told by different members of staff that its not necessary for her documents to be 
copied. Halifax hasnt been able to locate any recordings of these calls. But I dont have any 
reason to doubt what Ms L says about them. 
However, I dont think the calls change the overall position here. Thats because I find that 
Halifaxs process does involve copying the documents and sending them to a team for 
processing. But I can understand that its upsetting and frustrating for Ms L to be told 
conflicting information about this issue. It has made her doubt what she was told in the 
branch and has added to the overall stress of the situation. In the circumstances, I think 
Halifax should pay Ms L some compensation to recognise the impact of this. I think £100 
would be a fair amount.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should pay compensation of £100 to Ms L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman