DRN-2195251
The complaint
Ms E says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says that 
Provident didnt take her whole financial situation into account before lending. 
She also says that Provident didnt act reasonably when she couldnt afford to make the loan 
repayments. 
What happened
This complaint is about one home collected loan Provident provided to Ms E in September 
2016. Miss E borrowed £600. She was due to repay £30 each week for 32 weeks. 
Ms E had repayment problems fairly soon into the loan term and I can see that the account 
was transferred to a third-party collection agency in 2017. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
she still thought that the loan was lent irresponsibly. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ms E has said that some of the third party collection agencys actions may not have been 
appropriate. I can only look at the actions of one business in a complaint. And this complaint 
is against Provident. So I cant look at the what the third party collection agency may, or may 
not have done, as part of this complaint. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Why I think Providents checks were proportionate
Ive seen a record of the information Ms E provided when she completed her loan 
application. Ms E said she had a weekly income of around £270 and she had regular weekly 
outgoings of around £100. This left her with a disposable income of around £170 each week. 
So, it would have been reasonable for Provident to think that she could afford the loan 
repayments. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Provident was made aware of any 
financial problems Ms E mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. It says the credit file information it saw didnt show any 
signs of significant problems. So, I think it was reasonable for Provident to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Provident did before approving 
this loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan was reasonable.
I havent seen any evidence that Providents actions, or inactions, were the main reason why 
Ms E couldnt make the loan repayments. And as the repayments were missed for some 
time before the loan was passed to a collection agency Im not persuaded Provident was 
acting incorrectly when it did this.
Overall, Im not upholding Ms Es complaint. I can see she feels very strongly about it and 
Im sorry if my decision causes any upset. But I hope my explanation is helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman