DRN-2495606
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account without giving him his funds. Mr K 
wants the bank to return his money.
What happened
Mr W had a current account with Monzo.
Mr W says he was asked by a friend, who I will refer to as Mr T, if he could pay some money 
into his account with a view to Mr W sending the money to an account Mr T held. Mr W says 
Mr T told him that he just wanted to test out a new account. On 3 July 2020, Mr T sent a 
payment of £500 to Mr Ws account. Within minutes of receiving the money, Mr W made a 
payment of £500 to Mr Ts account. 
Following this payment, Monzo were contacted by another bank who said their customer had 
been the victim of fraud and the £500 wasnt intended for Mr Ws account. Monzo decided to 
close Mr Ws account immediately and returned the money in Mr Ws account to source.  
Mr W complained to the bank. He said the money in his account, which Monzo returned to 
the other bank, belonged to him. So, hes out of pocket. Monzo looked into Mr Ws complaint 
and said it hadnt done anything wrong. And had complied with the terms and conditions of 
the account, its processes and relevant regulations in taking the actions it did. Mr W wasnt 
happy with this response and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said Monzo hadnt done anything 
wrong when it closed Mr Ws account and sent the remaining money in Mr Ws account back 
to source. Mr W wasnt happy with what the investigator said. He said the money in his 
account was his. And as a result of having no money he has struggled to pay his bills and 
everyday living expenses. He says he hasnt done anything wrong and cant understand why 
Monzo wont return his money to him. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that Monzo havent given him access to money in his 
account. And have returned it to source  in other words sent the money back to another 
account. Mr W says that the money belongs to him and he wants it back. 
I appreciate Mr W is upset and I understand the whole situation has caused him worry, and 
inconvenience. But for me to uphold his complaint, I have to conclude Monzo has done 
something wrong when it returned the money left in Mr Ws account back to source. And in 
this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Monzo was told by another bank that its customer was the victim of a scam and provided 
Monzo with information to show Mr W wasnt entitled to the £500 Mr T had paid into his 
account. Having looked at the information, Im satisfied that Mr W received fraudulent funds 
into his account. 
Mr W says he immediately sent the £500 he received from Mr T out to another account. And 
the funds Monzo returned belonged to him. So, Monzo had no right to take it. But Im afraid I 
have some bad news for Mr W. As the investigator has already explained to Mr W, Monzo 
were following the Claytons Rule commonly known as the first in first out rule when it 
removed the money and sent it back to source.  This says that each withdrawal is presumed 
to be a return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that the oldest deposit is 
withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first.
When Mr W received the £500 into his account, he already had a balance of £544.94. So, 
when Mr W transferred £500 out of his account to Mr T the £500 was deducted from Mr Ws 
original balance (his money) leaving a balance of £44.94 along with the fraudulent funds. 
What this means is Mr W sent his own money to Mr T. 
From looking at Mr Ws account statement, I can see Mr W then made three payments 
leaving a total balance of just over £420.  Applying Claytons Rule, means that the money 
that remained in Mr Ws account after the £500 transfer, was made up of the fraudulent 
credit - in other words it wasnt Mr Ws money. So, I cant fairly conclude that Monzo should 
return it to Mr W. 
I understand that Mr W is upset by Monzos actions. And hes explained he was just trying to 
help a friend. Of course, if Mr W is owed the money, hes owed it by his friend, Mr T and Im 
not aware of any reason why he shouldnt seek payment from him.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ws account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, 
Monzo closed Mr Ws account immediately. In my view that was reasonable given Monzos 
concerns about how Mr W was operating the account. 
In summary, I realise Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont believe Monzo acted unreasonably or treated Mr W unfairly in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complain
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman