DRN-2482618
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) has treated 
him unfairly by declining a claim under his motor insurance policy, following an accident he 
had when driving abroad.
What happened
Some communication referred to in this decision was between Mr Gs spouse and direct line 
but for ease I have referred to Mr G throughout.
Mr G has a motor insurance policy with Direct Line which he originally purchased online in 
2014, it has renewed each year since.
The policy provides fully comprehensive cover when driving in the UK and has a provision 
for providing the minimum cover needed by law while driving in Europe (third party only). It 
also has an option for extending that cover to fully comprehensive at an additional cost.
In August 2019 Mr G was involved in a serious car accident while on holiday in Europe, 
causing substantial damage to his car. He called Direct Line to report the accident and ask 
for assistance. Direct line informed Mr G there was no cover in place for his car as he hadnt 
added the extension of cover to his policy and so had third party only cover in place.
Mr G complained to Direct Line, he felt it had left him stranded to deal with matters by 
himself in a foreign country. In summary his complaint points were:
The policy was a fully comprehensive one and as the UK was still part of the 
European Union (EU) cover should be seamless throughout the union 
Direct Line had sent an email in March 2019 telling him what changes he might need 
to make in the result of a no Brexit deal and that he might need a green card.
He takes his car abroad regularly and had discussed this with Direct Line previously
Direct Line said it would review the sales call from when Mr G took the policy out. When it 
issued its final response, it explained there was no sales call as the policy had been taken 
online, it apologised for this and paid Mr G £50 for saying it would review something it didnt 
have. It didnt uphold the other points of his complaint. It felt that it was right to decline Mr 
Gs claim as the additional cover needed wasnt in place at the time of the accident. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to this service. The investigator 
didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint, they felt Direct Line had acted fairly when declining the 
claim. They also said they didnt think the email Direct Line sent in March 2019, regarding 
potential upcoming changes due to Brexit, was misleading.
Mr G disagreed with the investigator and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I havent considered it but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr Gs policy is not unusual in the driving abroad cover it provides. In fact, most motor 
insurance policies in the market place do not provide fully comprehensive cover for driving 
abroad as standard. 
When Mr G bought the policy online it was a non-advised sale, this means that it was up to 
Mr G to decide if the policy suited his needs. As Mr G has said he regularly uses his car 
abroad I would expect him to have looked at the cover his policy provided to make sure it 
covered what he assumed it did. Had he done so, he would have seen the policy states, in 
section G:
Territorial limits and foreign use
1. Territorial limits
This policy provides the cover described in your schedule in Great Britain, 
Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland, the Ise of Man, the Channel Islands and 
during journeys between these places.
2. Using your car abroad
This policy also provides the minimum cover you need by law to use your car in 
Any country which is a member of the European union,

3. Extending your policy cover abroad
For an extra premium, your policy can be extended to provide the same level of 
cover as you have in the territorial limits for an agreed period. Please call us to 
arrange cover..
I think this clearly sets out that Mr Gs policy does not automatically provide the same level 
of cover while abroad as it does at home.
As Mr G didnt call to arrange the extended cover, Im satisfied that Direct Line has acted 
fairly in declining his claim as there was no cover in place for this event. 
Mr G has also said that he feels the email Direct Line sent him in March 2019 regarding the 
potential Brexit changes mislead him into believing that while the UK was still a part of the 
EU, he was covered. Having considered the email, Im afraid I dont quite see things the 
same, Ill explain.
The email is titled What you need to know about driving in the EU if theres a no deal 
Brexit. It goes on to explain that some laws might change if this happens and there could be 
a need to carry a Green Card to drive a UK vehicle legally in the EU. The email does not 
mention Mr Gs policy specifically nor does it mention any levels of cover that may or may 
not be included in its policies. It is a generic email that was sent to its policy holders to make 
them aware of a potential change in the law if there is a No-Deal Brexit. So, Im not of the opinion that this email would lead a policy holder to believe they have fully comprehensive 
cover while the UK is still part of the EU.
While I do have a huge amount of empathy for Mr G and the unfortunate situation, he finds 
himself in, I cannot say that Direct Line has acted unfairly here. It follows, I wont be asking 
Direct Line to do anything here to put things right for Mr G.
I know Mr G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Direct Line can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman