DRN-2927202
The complaint
 Mr K is unhappy with the cash settlement offer made to him by Royal & Sun Alliance Plc 
(RSA) after he made a claim on his home insurance.
 
What happened
 Mr K contacted RSA following an escape of water in his ensuite bathroom. Mr K told RSA 
the water damaged a bedroom carpet, his kitchen ceiling and the floor tiles. RSAs loss 
adjuster visited the property. After the visit, Mr K told RSA the loss adjuster had damaged 
the bathrooms wall tiles and RSA added their replacement to Mr Ks claim.
Mr K got quotes for the repairs to his bathroom and kitchen and sent them to RSA. RSA said 
the quotes included work that didnt correspond to the damage noted by the loss adjuster. 
RSA then sent a second loss adjuster to Mr Ks property.
 
Following this visit, RSA told Mr K his quote for £6,225, excluding VAT and replacement 
tiles, was expensive. RSA said Mr Ks quote included painting in the kitchen that wasnt 
necessary. RSA also said it would only include the ensuite floorboards to Mr Ks claim if he 
could show theyd been damaged. Mr K declined RSAs offer to carry out the repair work 
because he wanted to use his own suppliers and contractors. RSA offered Mr K a cash 
settlement of £2,865.77 for the work to the kitchen and bathroom and the replacement tiles.
 
Mr K complained to RSA. He said the cash settlement was too low. He got a cheaper quote 
for the work to the kitchen and bathroom for around £5,400 and also a quote for £1,669.94, 
excluding VAT, for the replacement tiles. RSA reviewed these quotes but didnt increase its 
offer. Mr K told RSA he doubted even its own contractors would be able to do the work for 
what it had offered him. 
Mr K sent RSA a quote for £3,208.42 for the replacement of his damaged bedroom carpet. 
Mr K wanted to use his own supplier rather than RSAs. RSA offered Mr K a cash settlement 
for the carpet of £1,786.09, which Mr K complained was too low. 
RSAs final response said it wouldnt increase its cash settlement offers for Mr Ks carpet or 
for his bathroom and kitchen. RSAs response also said it wouldnt replace undamaged 
items or carry out work where there was no damage. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint and Mr K asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
Mr K had provided this service with copies of three quotes for tiles. Mr K to clarified the 
quote for £1,669.94 was the correct one, rather than the quotes for £907.68 and £659.20. He 
said the correct quote was for both wall and floor tiles and was based on a like for like 
replacement of the damaged tiles which were porcelain. He said the two cheaper quotes 
were not like for like and were for wall tiles only.
Mr K had provided this service with a copy of a builders quote for the work to his kitchen and 
bathroom dated June 2020. The quote was for £5,145 - excluding VAT, the replacement tiles 
and the work RSA said was unnecessary. It was the cheapest quote Mr K had provided to us 
for the work, but because RSA appeared not to have seen it, I asked RSA to review it.  RSA 
increased its cash settlement offer for the kitchen, bathroom and tiles from £2,865.77 to 
£3,166.66. Mr K felt the increased offer was still too low and said the pandemic meant his 
costs had increased.
 
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My first provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
I explained that cash settlement amounts offered by insurers are often lower than the cost a 
consumer of carrying out the work themselves because insurers negotiate discounts. And 
that Mr Ks policy terms allow RSA to offer cash settlements only up to what it would cost 
RSA to carry out the work using its own suppliers. But that we expect any cash settlement 
amounts to be fair reflection of an insurers costs.
 
My provisional decision also noted that Mr K hadnt provided me with any evidence that his 
costs have increased because of the pandemic, and so I wouldnt be requiring RSA to 
increase its cash settlement offers because of this.
I said I was satisfied - in the main - that RSAs cash offer for Mr Ks bathroom and kitchen 
was a fair reflection of RSAs costs and that it was reasonable for RSA to want to see that Mr 
Ks bathroom floorboards were damaged before adding them to his claim.
So I was minded to require RSA to:
pay a cash settlement of £3,208.42 to Mr K for the replacement of his bedroom 
carpet plus any relevant VAT because RSA hadnt provided enough information to 
demonstrate that its cash offer of £1786.09 was a fair reflection of its costs; 
revise its cash settlement offer to Mr K in line with what it will cost RSA to replace Mr 
Ks damaged bathroom tiles with porcelain tiles because I felt Mr Ks tiles were more 
likely porcelain rather than ceramic - which is what RSA had scoped for. 
pay Mr K £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him by its cash settlement offers. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr K sent in an updated and increased quote from 
his builder for the work to his bathroom and kitchen for £5,659 excluding VAT.
RSA provided a breakdown of its cash offer of £1,786.09 for the replacement of Mr Ks 
bedroom carpet. RSA also agreed to increase its cash offer for Mr Ks tiles by £147.08, 
which is what it says it would cost it to replace Mr Ks bathroom tiles with porcelain rather 
than ceramic tiles using its own suppliers. 
RSA said that it had taken into consideration, when scoping for the tiles, that the tiles didnt 
extend all the way up the wall, which it said was shown in its report. RSA said it suspected 
Mr Ks quote for tiles was based on fully tiling each walls. RSAs report didnt contain 
pictures of each of Mr Ks bathroom walls, so I asked Mr K to provide photos. My second provisional decision
After considering the responses of both parties to my first provisional decision, I reached a 
different outcome to that of my first provisional decision. And because Id arrived at a 
different outcome, I issued a second provisional decision to give both parties a further 
chance to comment ahead of issuing a final decision. 
I explained my second provisional decision to both parties as follows: 
I said in my first provisional decision that I was satisfied that RSAs cash offer was based on 
a fair reflection its costs, but for the replacement tiles being ceramic not porcelain. RSA has 
accepted this finding and has agreed to increase its cash offer by £147.08 for replacement 
porcelain tiles. 
I have reviewed again the quantity of porcelain tiles RSA included in its scope alongside Mr 
Ks photos of his bathroom walls. I can see from Mr Ks photos his wall tiles extend part way 
up the walls, except for those inside his shower enclosure which extend floor to ceiling.
Im satisfied that the increase of £147.08 for porcelain tiles is a fair reflection of the cost to 
RSA to replace Mr Ks tiles with porcelain tiles. And Im satisfied of the accuracy of the 
quantities of tiles included in RSAs scope. So I think a total cash offer of £3,313.74 is a fair 
and reasonable reflection of RSAs costs to restore Mr Ks bathroom and kitchen.
I appreciate Mr Ks may still think RSAs cash offer for his bathroom and kitchen is too low 
and he has provided a quote showing increased costs to him of arranging the repairs 
himself. But - as I explained in my first provisional decision - the terms of Mr Ks policy are 
clear that where RSAs costs are cheaper than those of Mr Ks own suppliers, RSA can offer 
cash settlements of up to what it would cost RSA to pay its preferred suppliers to restore the 
damage to Mr Ks kitchen and bathroom. I also explained that insurers costs are often 
cheaper than a consumers because of the discounts insurers negotiate with suppliers. Ive 
taken this into consideration when arriving at my provisional finding here that RSAs cash 
offer for the restoration of Mr Ks bathroom and kitchen is fair.
RSAs response to my first provisional decision included a breakdown of its cash settlement 
offer for Mr Ks carpet. Ive reviewed the breakdown and Im satisfied it is a fair reflection of 
its costs. So I am no longer minded to require RSA to pay Mr K a cash settlement of 
£3,208.42 for his carpet. Instead Im minded not to uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint 
leaving RSA free to offer Mr K its original settlement amount for the replacement of his 
bedroom carpet of £1,786.09. 
In my first provisional decision, I awarded Mr K £250 compensation for the trouble and upset 
RSAs cash offers for his carpet and his bathroom and kitchen would have caused him. 
RSAs responses have persuaded me that its cash offer for Mr Ks carpet wasnt 
unreasonable. So Im minded to require RSA to pay Mr K £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him by its cash offer for his kitchen and bathroom, 
rather than the £250 I said I was minded to award him in my first provisional decision. This is 
because the £250 award concerned the distress and inconvenience caused by both of 
RSAs cash offers for Mr Ks kitchen and bathroom and his carpet. 
RSA accepted my second provisional decision and provided no further comment or 
information. Mr K did not accept my second provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my second provisional decision.
Whilst RSA has accepted my second provisional decision, Mr K was unhappy with its 
outcome. Mr K also said he didnt need or want the compensation Id provisionally awarded. 
Mr K also raised a number of points in response to my second provisional decision.
Mr K said that he has lost enjoyment of his home since the escape of water and that a guest 
had commented on his damaged kitchen ceiling. In my second provisional decision, Id 
already included £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr K by RSA not 
including porcelain tiles in its original cash offer. Despite Mr Ks response here, I still think 
this is fair and reasonable compensation because Mr K confirmed there was an alternative 
bathroom at his property. And I think this would limit the distress and inconvenience hed 
have suffered by his ensuite being damaged. 
Mr K said that my second provisional decision didnt ask RSA to pay for the damaged tiles 
and wanted me to state how much RSA needed to pay for the tiles. But my second 
provisional decision explained that RSAs cash settlement offer of £3,313.74 was for the 
restoration of Mr Ks kitchen and bathroom and reflected an increase on RSAs previous 
cash offer to include porcelain tiles. So the cost of the replacement tiles  as well as other 
building work needed to restore Mr Ks kitchen and bathroom  had already been included in 
RSAs revised cash offer of £3313.74. And Id said in my second provisional decision that 
this cash offer was fair and reasonable.
 
Mr K said that RSAs cash settlement offer is based on a carpet that isnt the same quality as 
his damaged carpet. Mr K asked that RSA offer a settlement in line with a specific, named 
carpet and has asked for proof that the carpet on which RSA has based its cash offer is the 
same quality as his damaged one. 
The approach of this service is that it is usually up to the consumer to prove their claim. So it 
would be up to Mr K to provide evidence that his damaged carpet is the specific, named 
carpet he says it is. Mr K hasnt provided this service with any such evidence. 
I asked RSA about the replacement carpet it had scoped for and on which it based its cash 
offer. RSA that when its loss adjuster visited Mr Ks property, Mr K advised that the carpet 
was the same specific named carpet hed told us it was. RSA said that, as there was no 
invoice to confirm the carpet was what Mr K said it was, it scoped for a replacement carpet 
based on its loss adjusters view of a like for like equivalent. RSA said that if Mr K wanted to 
dispute its validation, he would need to provide either an original invoice or a sample of the 
carpet. 
So in the absence of any evidence to support Mr Ks argument that his carpet is the specific 
named carpet he says it is - and because the replacement carpet is based on RSAs experts 
opinion of what a like for like replacement would be - I cant say on balance that the 
replacement carpet RSAs cash offer is based on is inferior in quality to Mr Ks damaged 
carpet or wouldnt meet the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy. 
 
Mr K also said in his response that RSAs cash settlement offer is far lower than the quotes 
hed been able to get himself. As I said in my second provisional decision, an insurers costs 
are usually lower than the costs to a consumer because of the discounts they can negotiate. 
Mr Ks response doesnt include any new evidence or information that persuades me to depart from the finding in my second provisional decision that RSAs breakdown of its cash 
settlement offer for his carpet isnt a fair reflection of its costs.
 
So because Ive not seen any evidence that causes me depart from the findings in my 
second provisional decision concerning RSAs cash settlement offer or Mr Ks damaged 
carpet is unfair, I think on balance that its fair and reasonable.
Mr K also said in his response that he doubts RSA can carry out the repairs to his kitchen 
and bathroom for £3,313.74. RSA have given me no reason to doubt that its cash offer for 
the restoration of Mr Ks bathroom and kitchen isnt a reflection of its costs. And as Ive said 
above an insurers costs quite often will be lower than the costs to a consumer of carrying 
out the work themselves.
Mr K mentioned in his response the updated builders quote he provided showing that his 
costs have increased by 10%. But the terms of Mr Ks policy are that RSA need only offer a 
cash settlement that is a fair reflection of its costs  not the consumers costs. And now that 
RSA has demonstrated that its cash offers are a fair reflection of its costs, its RSAs costs 
that determine the cash settlement amount and not Mr Ks.
Because RSA have accepted my second provisional decision and Mr Ks responses havent 
persuaded me to depart from the findings set out in my second provisional decision, I shall 
be upholding Mr Ks complaint in part and in line with my second provisional decision. So 
RSA should pay Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience its cash offer for his bathroom 
and kitchen have caused. But RSA is free to offer Mr K a cash settlement amount of 
£3,313.74 for the restoration of Mr Ks bathroom and kitchen and a cash settlement amount 
of £1,786.09 for Mr Ks damaged carpet. 
As I mentioned above, RSA has said that if Mr K wishes to dispute its validation of his 
damaged carpet, hed need to send an original invoice, or a sample of the carpet. My 
decision here doesnt prevent Mr K from pursuing this further with RSA should he wish to 
send it a sample of his damaged carpet.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint in part. I instruct Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to pay Mr K £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused Mr K. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman