DRN-3786044
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the service she got from AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (AA) when she called to notify it of a claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W called AA to notify it of damage to her car after an accident in which a third party 
drove into the back of it.
Among other things, the AA agent Mrs W spoke to told her the third-party driver was 
uninsured. He said this would complicate Mrs Ws claim but AA had a process for dealing 
with it. Because Mrs W and her passenger had been hurt in the accident, the agent put her 
through to a firm of solicitors to take details of their injuries. And AAs agent ended the call 
by passing Mrs W to her insurer (that is, the business who underwrote her policy), saying 
shed be fixed up with a garage to repair her car and given a courtesy car.
Mrs W says AA told her in its first call with her that it would look after her but she says it 
didnt. In particular, Mrs W says:
The information the agent gave her about the third-party driver being uninsured was 
incorrect (something AA discovered a few days after Mrs W notified it of the 
accident).
She wasnt given a courtesy car.
She was pressured into giving details of her injuries to the firm of solicitors.
She had to contact AA a number of times to work out how her claim was progressing 
and was often on hold for long periods.
When Mrs W complained to AA about what had happened, AA upheld part of her complaint. 
AA said its agent incorrectly entered the third-party drivers details, which led to him telling 
her the driver was uninsured. AA apologised for this. But AA didnt think thered been any 
failings in its service after that because the issues with Mrs Ws claim were being dealt with 
by her insurers and not by AA.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs W brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it upheld it. She thought AA couldve handled Mrs Ws claim journey better and that if all 
the options had been explained to her fully at the outset  including in relation to the 
provision of a courtesy car  this wouldve reduced the time Mrs W spent contacting AA and 
the frustration this caused her. Our investigator recommended AA pay Mrs W £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
Mrs W disagrees with our investigators recommendations. Among other things, she says 
she paid for a service  including an entitlement to a courtesy car  that she didnt get. 
AA also disagrees with our investigators recommendations. It says it explained to Mrs W 
that it wasnt dealing with her claim because it was the responsibility of the insurer who 
underwrote her policy to do this  and not AA, in its capacity as an accident management 
firm.
So Mrs Ws complaint has come to me to decide.
I should make it clear my decision concerns only AAs handling of the notification by Mrs W 
of her claim and what flowed from this. Although AA sold Mrs W her car insurance policy and 
acted as a first port of call for Mrs W following her accident, AA didnt underwrite Mrs Ws 
policy. So it was under no obligation to give her a courtesy car. This is something that was 
dealt with by the insurer who underwrote Mrs Ws policy, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. I understand Mrs W has made a separate complaint to us about how her insurer 
dealt with her claim, including the issue of the courtesy car, and has had our answer on it. 
So I wont be considering that issue in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
AA accepts its agent told Mrs W in the initial call that the third-party driver was uninsured, 
and that this was incorrect. Its obvious from Mrs Ws response to this news during the call 
that she found this upsetting. And while the agent said AA could still deal with her claim, he 
did also say it will complicate it. So I think the incorrect information AA gave caused Mrs W 
distress. 
Part way through the call, AAs agent put Mrs W through to a firm of solicitors to discuss 
details of the injuries she and her passenger had suffered in the accident. Mrs W says she 
was pressured into doing this. But having listened to the call, I dont think AAs agent put 
pressure on Mrs W to speak to the solicitors  he asked Mrs W if she would speak with them 
and she agreed.
At the end of the call, the agent said he was putting Mrs W through to her insurer, who would 
arrange for a garage to repair her car and for her to be given a courtesy car while hers was 
off the road. I think this, and the agents assurance that AA would look after Mrs W, led her 
to think her car would be repaired and a courtesy car would be given to her as a matter of 
course. So, as well as giving Mrs W incorrect information, I dont think AA managed Mrs Ws 
expectations about how her claim might be progressed by her insurer in its call. When       
Mrs Ws insurer subsequently decided to settle her claim by declaring her car a write-off (and 
not giving her a courtesy car), she was understandably confused and upset.
Motor insurance claims often involve multiple parties and understanding who is doing what 
as the claim progresses can be confusing for a policyholder. Its clear Mrs W didnt fully 
understand the roles and responsibilities of the different parties involved in her claim. I think 
had AA  as Mrs Ws accident manager  explained these better at the outset, and in its 
subsequent calls with her, its likely Mrs Ws experience wouldve been smoother. I think 
shed have spent less time than she did making numerous calls to try to understand what 
was happening  which wouldve lessened the obvious frustration this brought her.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs W has made a number of comments. Some relate 
to the courtesy car. These issues, as Ive already said, arent part of this complaint because 
they concern how the insurer who underwrote Mrs Ws policy dealt with her claim. Many of 
Mrs Ws other comments relate to the service she got from AA, which she says (along with 
other companies involved in the complaint) didnt give her any assistance whatsoever. As 
far as Mrs Ws comments relate to AA, I dont agree that she was given no assistance. But 
I do think AAs failings in its initial call with Mrs W in particular caused her distress and inconvenience. And for that reason, I think its fair and reasonable for AA to pay Mrs W £100 
in compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint and direct AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mrs W £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay Mrs W this compensation within 28 
days of the date we tell it Mrs W accepts my final decision. If it doesnt, AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited must pay Mrs W simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman