DRN-3646342
The complaint
Mrs M, a trustee of Trust M, complains her trusts whole of life policies were unfairly due to 
be acquired by ReAssure Limited without her consent. She also complains ReAssures 
predecessor pressured her into surrendering all but one of them. 
What happened
Trust M held a series of whole of life policies assuring the life of Mrs M. The policies were 
owned and administered by a firm Ill refer to as Business A.  
Business A informed Mrs M that it was in the process of transferring a number of its policies, 
including hers, across to ReAssure. Mrs M researched ReAssure and decided she didnt 
want to become its customer. So she contacted Business A to complain about the transfer. 
Across a series of conversations with Business A, Mrs M was told that: 
The transfer of her policies to ReAssure had essentially been agreed in principle 
some time earlier, but there was a court date pending to finalise the matter. 
Beyond putting her objections to the transfer on the record, there was little she could 
do to stop it from taking place. 
As part of the transfer process, her data had been shared with ReAssure.
As these conversations progressed, Mrs M cancelled all but one of the trusts policies. She 
feels she was forced into doing so by Business A, as she didnt want to become a ReAssure 
customer. Mrs M complained about what was happening to her, and about the way shed 
been spoken to by a number of Business As staff. She felt strongly that it wasnt fair for the 
policies to be transferred across to ReAssure without her consent. 
Business A apologised for the way its staff had spoken to her. And it offered £250 to 
apologise for this. But it broadly rejected her concerns with the transfer, and the way itd 
handled her data. At one point, Business A offered Mrs M the option of having her policies 
reinstated, on the understanding theyd eventually be transferred across to ReAssure. But 
Mrs M did not accept this offer.  
Whilst making her complaint, Mrs M attended a court hearing where the proposed transfer 
between Business A and ReAssure was being discussed. Having noted Mrs Ms objections, 
the court subsequently approved the transfer. 
As Mrs M remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our service. Upon referral to our 
service, it was noted that ReAssures acquisition of Business As policies, meant itd also 
assumed responsibility for answering its complaints. Therefore, our investigator recorded 
Mrs Ms complaint as being about ReAssure, not Business A. 
Our investigator gave the opinion that Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. In short, he 
found that: 
The transfer Mrs Ms complaint stemmed from was approved by a court, and not 
something our service would interfere with. 
He wasnt persuaded Mrs M had cancelled the policies under-duress.
He had no significant concerns with the way Mrs Ms data had been handled. 
He felt the £250 Mrs M had been offered was fair compensation for the offence 
Business A accepted itd caused her. 
As Mrs M didnt accept our investigators opinion, the matters been referred to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start my decision by acknowledging Mrs Ms considerable strength of feeling on this issue. 
Its clear to me this matter is of the upmost importance to her. And that shes spent a 
significant amount of time compiling, annotating, and submitting evidence to support her 
arguments. I know this dispute and her pursuit of it has weighed on her considerably, which 
hasnt always been easy on account of her health. 
Id like to assure Mrs M that Ive read through all of her submissions in full and in detail prior 
to coming to my decision. And I hope she wont consider it a discourtesy that my decision 
focusses on what I consider the crux of this matter to be. Its within my gift as an 
ombudsman to do so, and is in keeping with our services role as an informal alternative to 
bringing a matter to the courts. 
I also think its important that I, like our investigator before me, outline the scope of my 
decision. In bringing this complaint, Mrs M seems to be challenging the entire legal and 
regulatory framework which permitted her policies to be sold to ReAssure without her 
consent. She also seems to challenge the outcome of the court hearing which preceded the 
transfer of business between Business A and ReAssure. But it is not mine or this services 
place to rule on the overall fairness of this in the way Mrs M seems to suggest we should. 
Rather, my role here is restricted to fairly and reasonably deciding the outcome of Mrs Ms 
complaint against ReAssure, and by extension Business A. When doing so, Ive taken into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice. 
In carrying out the safeguarding and administration of these policies, Business A and 
ReAssure are expected to treat their customers fairly and consider their best interests. If I 
looked at the facts of the complaint Mrs M has brought, and I was persuaded that either 
business had failed in its obligations to its customer, I may direct ReAssure to settle the 
matter in a way that I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
To keep things simple, Ive addressed Mrs Ms complaint by breaking it down into what I 
consider are its key points.  
Was it fair for Business A to transfer the trusts policies to ReAssure? 
I understand that, fundamentally, Mrs M objects to the notion her trusts policies could be 
transferred away from Business A without her express consent. I can see Mrs M had been a 
customer of Business As for many years. And even whilst making her complaint, shed had 
cause to compliment it on the service shed received from it in the past. I can therefore 
appreciate why her overwhelming preference was for her policies to remain with Business A. But theres no rule or law which would compel Business A to continue offering her a service, 
if itd decided it no longer wished to do so. In my view, a decision like that would be a matter 
for Business As own commercial judgement. I would expect however that, mindful of its 
obligations, Business A would ensure suitable arrangements were made for a comparative 
service to be provided for its customers elsewhere. 
With that said, Ive considered whether Business A has met with its obligations to treat Mrs 
M fairly and consider her best interests, when choosing ReAssure as its successor. 
Mrs Ms detailed research led her to the conclusion that ReAssure was a firm she didnt want 
to deal with. But whatever her conclusions and preferences here mightve been, Im satisfied 
ReAssure was capable of offering a comparative service to Business A because: 
It had experience offering products like the ones Business A was transferring it. 
It was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
It was protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
In saying this, Im conscious that Mrs M has referred to extensive customer reviews and 
press cuttings which highlight shortcomings in ReAssures conduct. Her complaint suggests 
she believes the presence of this negative feedback ought reasonably to make ReAssure 
ineligible to succeed Business A as the custodian of the policies. But Im not persuaded this 
shouldve been the case. 
In my view, all firms are capable of making mistakes. But the regulatory framework in the UK 
means firms who do make mistakes can be held to account by their regulator. And for any 
individual errors thatve impacted their customers, those customers will usually have the right 
to refer complaints to our service. 
With this in mind, I think one of the considerations Business A shouldve had when choosing 
a successor, mindful of its obligations, was to ensure Mrs M and her trust didnt lose out on 
any protections they benefitted from whilst they were customers of Business A. And Im 
satisfied that the proposed transfer to ReAssure wouldnt have resulted in the erosion of any 
of these protections. Therefore, in choosing ReAssure as its successor, Im not persuaded 
Business A has treated Mrs M unfairly or failed to consider her best interests. I consider that 
ReAssure was capable of offering a comparative level of service to that which Mrs M had 
received from Business A. 
Leading on from my findings above, I dont have any concerns with Business As decision to 
share Mrs Ms data with ReAssure. It wouldnt have been possible to proceed with the 
transfer without doing so. And as Im satisfied the transfer was a fair exercise overall, it 
follows that I find the necessary data administration to facilitate that transfer was also fair. In 
these circumstances, Im not persuaded Mrs M is likely to suffer any detriment as a result of 
her data having been shared. And I note that as she chose to retain one of her policies, it 
was inevitable her data would be shared with ReAssure as part of this process. 
Did Business A pressure Mrs M into cancelling the trusts policies?  
Ive listened to the calls which surrounded Mrs Ms cancellation of the policies. 
Mrs Ms strength of feeling about this matter is apparent throughout her discussions with 
Business A. And I can appreciate that as a result of this, shell likely have felt as though she 
was under immense pressure. Im sympathetic to this. But Im not persuaded Business A 
treated her unfairly when it handled her request. Mrs M adopted the position that she seemingly could not face seeing the policies transferred 
across to ReAssure, because she considered it to be so disreputable. So following a number 
of phone calls with Business A in which she set out her position on this, she subsequently 
wrote it a letter requesting all but one of the policies be cancelled. Given the length of this 
process, and particularly because it required her to actively write a letter asking for the 
cancellation, Im not persuaded Mrs M could reasonably be said to be cancelling the policies 
under-duress. Theres nothing to show Business A told her she should take this action, or 
gave any suggestion that it was in hers or the trusts best interests to do so.  
From Mrs Ms notes on this subject, I can see she interpreted what Business A was telling 
her as essentially, if you dont want to become a customer of ReAssure, your only option is 
to cancel the policies. Im not persuaded a statement like this is likely to have placed any 
undue pressure on Mrs M to cancel her policies. Because whatever her stance mightve 
been, I note that Mrs M did ultimately choose to retain one of the trusts policies, and 
therefore did end up becoming a customer of ReAssure. This would suggest that whatever 
misgivings she had about ReAssure, they were clearly not insurmountable. And I note that a 
short period after the policies had been cancelled, Mrs M was given the chance to reinstate 
them, which she did not accept.  
Therefore Im not persuaded Business A either pressured, or gave any suggestion to Mrs M 
that cancelling the policies was something she should do. And when it heard how unhappy 
she was with the circumstances surrounding the cancellation, it fairly offered to reinstate 
them. From the evidence available to me, Im satisfied Business A has handled this matter 
fairly. So whilst I accept Mrs M felt under pressure to go ahead with the cancellation, I dont 
think this pressure stemmed from any unfair treatment she had received from Business A or 
ReAssure. 
Mrs M has argued the cancellation of the policies has caused a considerable loss. She 
appears to measure her loss as being the difference between the surrender value of the 
policies, and the sum which they assured in the event of her passing. Im satisfied that it 
would not be fair or reasonable for me to make any such award. As Ive established, the 
policies were fairly cancelled at Mrs Ms request, not as a result of any mistake or unfair 
treatment Ive identified in Business A or ReAssures conduct. And she was given the option 
of reinstating the policies, which she did not accept. Theres been no suggestion from Mrs M 
that the actual surrender value she received has been miscalculated. Im therefore not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable of me to make any award in these circumstances. 
Has Mrs M received fair treatment whilst making her complaint? 
Business A has noted that its handling of Mrs Ms concerns wasnt always of a good 
standard. Theres an occasion where it seems offence was caused to Mrs M, and Business 
A has acknowledged that whilst this was unintentional, its offered apologies and an award of 
£250 compensation for the upset it caused. 
The subject matter of this complaint clearly means a great deal to Mrs M. Shes spoken at 
length about the distress and anxiety its caused her. So I can easily understand why she 
took offence to some of the interactions she had with Business As staff. In the 
circumstances, I think its offer of £250 fairly and reasonably addresses any impact its 
interactions had on Mrs M. 
Mrs M has accused Business A of deceitfully manipulating the transcripts of calls it had with 
her during her complaint. Shes suggested this was a deliberate attempt to distort the facts of 
her case. But in the circumstances, this doesnt seem likely to me. I note that Mrs M was 
assisted in highlighting the discrepancies as Business A had also provided her with copies of 
its original call recordings, which have also been received by our service. I think its more likely that any discrepancies in these transcripts are a result of clerical errors. And as theyve 
not impeded Mrs Ms ability to have her case heard, Im not persuaded shes suffered any 
detriment as a result of them. 
Summary 
In short summary: 
Im satisfied Business A met with its obligations to Mrs M when it proposed to transfer 
her policies to ReAssure. I do not find that it treated her unfairly when doing so. 
Im satisfied that neither Business A nor ReAssure pressured Mrs M into cancelling 
her policies. 
Business A has acknowledged that its service to Mrs M could have been better, but 
Im satisfied the £250 its offered fairly addresses the impact its actions had on her. 
Because of this, I partially uphold Mrs Ms complaint on behalf of her trust. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. 
ReAssure Limited should proceed to pay Mrs M the £250 she was offered, if either it or 
Business A has not already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trust M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman