DRN-1727433
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not close her credit card account when she 
asked it to, which she says has affected her credit rating and the products available to her.
What happened
Miss K had a credit card with HSBC. In December 2018 she applied for a loan with HSBC. 
She says that when applying for the loan she told HSBC to close her credit card  as part of 
the purpose of the loan was that she was consolidating debts to improve her credit score in 
order to buy a house
The loan application was successful, and the account opened. However Miss Ks credit card 
was not closed  although the outstanding balance remained at zero.
Miss K says she became aware of this in January 2020 when searching for a mortgage. She 
complained to HSBC that it had failed to follow her instructions to close the account. She 
said that this had negatively impacted her credit rating. And she said this meant shed only 
qualify for higher interest rates on her mortgage. She estimated this meant shed have to pay 
an additional £50,000 in interest over the life of her mortgage. So, she wanted HSBC to pay 
her £50,000 for its error.
Following Miss Ks complaint, HSBC closed the credit card in January 2020. But it said it 
didnt agree it had caused the loss Miss K had quoted.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Miss K asked our service to look into the complaint. An 
investigator considered the complaint and listened to the call, in which Miss K applied for the 
loan. She found that Miss K had not requested that the credit card be closed at that time but 
rather that the credit limit be reduced. The information available suggested that this had not 
been done. But the investigator thought there was not enough evidence that this had caused 
Miss K a loss, so felt HSBC didnt need to take any further action given the account had now 
been closed.
Miss K asked for her complaint to be reviewed as she remained unhappy with the service 
provided by HSBC. She acknowledged that she mayve requested the credit limit be reduced 
rather than the card be closed but was unhappy that this was still not carried out. And she 
felt that this had affected her credit rating and her ability to obtain better mortgage rates.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ive listened to the call Miss K had with HSBC in December 2018 when she applied for the 
loan. In the call she said that the loan was to buy a car and consolidating or reducing other 
outstanding balances wasnt discussed. The credit card she held with HSBC was mentioned. 
Miss K said to the adviser that she didnt use the card and hadnt for some time, so it was effectively dormant. Miss K said she didnt need as high a credit limit so asked that it be 
reduced from £9,000 to £2,500. But there was no request for the card to be closed. So as no 
instruction to close the account was given, I dont think HSBC had made an error by leaving 
the account open following this call.
The account was closed in January 2020, when Miss K complained. Miss K has said that the 
account not being closed earlier has affected her credit score. And has provided two copies 
of her credit file from March 2020, after the account was closed, to show this. The two copies 
of her credit file show her credit score improving between the first and the second report. But 
they also both show the credit card account as closed  how it was reported on each file has 
not changed. There is also one fewer credit search recorded on the second file. So, I dont 
think I can reasonably say that the change in her credit score was solely down to this 
account being closed. But in any event, as Ive mentioned, the information Ive reviewed 
indicates she didnt request that the card be closed in December 2018. So, I dont think 
HSBC is at fault for the card not being closed, and in turn reported that way, sooner.
The information on Miss Ks credit file does indicate that the credit limit was not reduced in 
line with Miss Ks request. So, I think HSBC has made an error by not following this 
instruction.
Miss K has said that this was poor service and that it has still impacted her credit file and the 
mortgage rates available to her. And I agree it would have been better if HSBC had acted on 
the instruction given to it. So, I understand why Miss K is disappointed it hasnt. But I cant 
agree that this has caused her a loss.
Credit scores are based on a number of different factors  including information on existing 
accounts, new applications and new accounts being opened. As Ive said I dont think HSBC 
made an error by not closing the account. So, the account would always have been reported 
as open on Miss Ks credit file even if the credit limit had been reduced. A reduction in the 
credit limit on this card may have improved Miss Ks credit score. But I cant say that it would 
have for certain as there are other factors involved and, even if it did, to what extent it 
wouldve changed. I also note that between December 2018 and January 2020 Miss Ks 
credit file shows a new separate card being opened with another lender. This indicates that 
the way the HSBC credit card was being reported wasnt impeding her from applying for 
other products. And that new product may also likely have had some effect on her overall 
score. 
Turning to any potential impact on a mortgage application - Miss K has acknowledged that 
she hasnt actually applied for a mortgage. She says that the assumption about the level of 
potential interest rate loss was based on discussions with mortgage brokers, but no 
application has been made. There are a number of factors that go into mortgage lending 
decisions, a credit record being just one of them. So, I dont think I can safely say that she 
would have incurred any interest rate loss based solely on her credit score, let alone the 
level of loss she has detailed. And in any event, I cant reasonably ask HSBC to provide 
compensation for an event that has not happened.
 
 
 
The role of our service is to consider complaints informally. We do not fine or punish 
businesses for errors made, rather we decide what we think is the fair and reasonable way 
to resolve things  which doesnt necessarily involve paying compensation. I think that on balance HSBC did make an error here by failing to reduce the credit limit on Miss Ks credit 
card as requested. But I cant reasonably conclude that this error has caused Miss K a 
financial loss. So, I think the action taken when the complaint was first raised  closing the 
account and reporting it as such from that point  is a fair way to resolve matters and I dont 
think I can reasonably require HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman