DRN-4389211
The complaint
Mr D about Nationwide Building Societys service and the inconvenience and costs due their 
inability to provide a PIN and internet banking access. 
What happened
Mr D lives in another country (Country A) and in late 2022 and early 2023 he couldnt use 
Nationwides internet banking and APP. Mr D says Nationwide dropped his calls and he 
couldnt speak to an agent. Also, when he did receive assistance, the App Store wouldnt 
allow him to download the APP.
Also, in late 2022, his account PIN didnt work. Mr D says he didnt receive a new PIN until 
February 2023, but this was delayed and didnt work either. And he had to use his Country A 
Euro account for purchases which charged him for being overdrawn.
Mr D complained to Nationwide. However, they said the following and paid Mr D £150 for the 
aspects of his complaint that they upheld:
There were no issues with their telephone lines including the international number
There wasnt a record of a PIN request being made in October 2022. But as they 
couldnt be sure this wasnt an error they apologised and upheld this aspect of Mr 
Ds complaint.
When they received his PIN request in February 2023, they shouldnt have said it 
would take 5 days as this was for customers in the UK. And they offered a further 
apology.
He couldve obtained cash without a PIN from their branch network.   
Mr D complained to our service, however our investigator considered Nationwides redress 
to have been fair and reasonable.
As Mr D remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
I first considered Mr Ds complaint about Nationwide dropping his calls from Country A. 
Nationwide have no records of either telephone line issues or calls from Mr D. I gave Mr D a 
further opportunity to provide evidence he called Nationwide however I havent received a 
reply. So, with no information to support either calls or a Nationwide error Im unable to 
uphold this aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Regarding Mr Ds PIN requests there is only a record of Mr D making a request in February 
2023 which Nationwide fulfilled. Although there is no record of an earlier October 2022 
request, Nationwide chose to believe Mr D and offered an apology together with 
compensation. Considering the following:
There are no records of Mr D requesting a PIN in October 2022
If the October 2022 request was urgent, I wouldve expected to see a follow up 
request prior to February 2023 
Cash can be obtained within Nationwides branch network and Mr D was able to visit 
a branch. 
Im satisfied that Nationwides apology and amount of compensation, which covers their 
confirmed error in not advising Mr D of a delivery time exceeding 5 days, is fair and 
reasonable. 
Finally, I considered Mr Ds complaint about not being able to use Nationwide internet and 
APP services. Although I can understand Mr Ds frustration, this problem is caused by Mr D 
not having a UK mobile phone and living outside the UK which means he cant access the 
App store to use Nationwides banking App. So, it isnt a technical issue which Nationwide 
have caused or can control and it will impact any Nationwide customer with similar 
circumstances. 
As this is an unusual situation, Im pleased to see that Nationwide have recently offered Mr 
D solutions which include being able to log in with Memorable Data as an exception. 
However, in order to do so, Mr D will need to make contact with Nationwide. I appreciate this 
will be inconvenient, but Im satisfied this is a fair resolution.
So, considering all the above, Im satisfied Nationwide have acted fairly and reasonably here 
and Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman