DRN-4288179
The complaint
Ms W complains about Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) who provided her with a faulty 
device, following a claim under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms W held a policy to cover her device with Chubb. Her device developed a fault, and she 
made a claim. Chubb accepted the claim and replaced the device. Ms W explained that the 
phone that she received operated quite slowly. But the device eventually developed a further 
fault in that the screen became detached from it. 
Ms W contacted Chubb who advised her to take her phone to one of its shops. An assistant 
in the shop, contacted Chubb and whilst on the phone, confirmed that there was no external 
damage to the phone that had been caused by Ms W, but the screen had become detached. 
Ms W said that Chubb told her, that as she hadnt raised an issue with the phone within the 
first 30 days of receipt of it, she would have to make a claim, return the phone, and pay the 
excess of £100, for Chubb to replace it. 
Ms W raised a complaint as she said that she hadnt damaged the phone, so it was unfair 
that she had to make another claim and pay the excess. Chubb maintained its position in its 
final response. And as Ms W had been given her referral rights, she referred a complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that Chubb hadnt been fair as he didnt think it had originally supplied Ms W with a fully 
functional phone. He accepted that there had been a 30-day warranty but said that it should 
be disapplied, as there was evidence that Ms W hadnt damaged the phone and that the 
phone was faulty when Ms W received it. So, he recommended that Chubb provide Ms W 
with a new device without the need for her to make a claim or pay another excess. 
Ms W accepted the view, Chubb did not. It said that Ms W had 30-days to report a fault with 
the phone. She didnt report it within that time period, even though she had said the phone 
didnt operate correctly on receipt. It said that it wasnt for around three months before the 
fault with the phone was reported and this meant that Ms W had caused damage to the 
phone. It said that she ought to make a new claim and pay the required excess, as per the 
policy terms and conditions. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered all the evidence and comments from both parties. And I think the main issue 
of this complaint, is whether Chubb was fair to adhere to the 30-day warranty period, in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and under the how we deal with claims 
section, it confirms that once a claim is accepted (and it has been decided that the phone will 
be replaced) Chubbs obligation is to provide a fully functional phone that has been tested 
but will come from refurbished stock. 
It further states that a 30-day warranty period is applicable, in the event that a fault develops 
with the phone. 
It is agreed by both parties that Ms W didnt report the fault with her phone until around three 
months after she had received it. But the issue here is whether she actually received a fully 
functional phone to begin with. And having looked at the evidence as it stands, Im not 
satisfied that Ms W received a fully functional phone. And Ill explain why. 
Ms W said that when she initially received the phone, she noticed that the device ran slower 
but didnt report this to Chubb as she didnt see this as a major issue. However, the fault with 
the phone developed further until the screen detached from the phone. 
Ms W has provided videos of the damaged phone. In addition, Ms W explains that she took 
the phone to the phone shop, and it was examined by the Chubb assistant. The assistant 
said that the phone showed no damage that had been caused by Ms W. The issue with the 
phone was the detached screen. 
Having reviewed the photos, video of the phone, as well as the comments made by the 
Chubb assistant, Im satisfied that there wasnt any damage caused to the phone by Ms W. I 
think there is enough evidence to show ( and Im persuaded by Ms Ws comments) that 
there was a failure of the glue that stuck the phone screen to the body of the phone. 
As Chubb had the obligation under the terms and conditions to provide a fully functional and 
working phone, Im not persuaded that it did just that. I say this as not only was the phone 
initially running slowly, but the screen eventually detached from the phone. 
In addition, I note that Chubb said that it fully tested the phone prior to its dispatch. But I 
havent seen enough evidence that supports that the phone was fully tested prior to its 
dispatch. I think had this been done, its possible that the phone wouldnt have had the 
operating issue. And possibly wouldnt have had the fault with the screen. 
Consequently, as Im not convinced that the phone was fully functional, and its accepted that 
the phone was a refurbished phone,  its possible that the screen had been replaced at some 
point, before dispatch. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Chubb to be able to rely on 
the 30-day warranty, for a phone that wasnt of sufficient quality to start with. 
Accordingly, I think that Chubb ought to replace Ms Ws phone without the need for Ms W to 
pay the excess charge. In addition, Im satisfied that Ms W was inconvenienced by the lack 
of a fully functioning phone. And I think its fair and reasonable that Chubb recognise the 
impact this caused on her. For this, I think it ought to pay £100 compensation, for the trouble 
and upset this caused. Putting things right
Taking all of the circumstances into consideration, I direct Chubb to put matters right as 
indicated below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
To put matters right, Chubb European Group SE to:
Replace Ms Ws device, with a fully functional phone, excluding the excess charge.
Pay Ms W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Chubb European Group SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Ms W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman