DRN-3182623
The complaint
Mr S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) didnt do enough to 
protect him from losing money to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr S has explained that he was looking to invest and a merchant by the name of Kruger 
Exchange was the first to get back to him  and he was persuaded to make payments to 
Kruger Exchange towards an investment with Kruger Exchange. He made the following 
payments using his M&S Mastercard credit card.
Transactio
n no. DateMercha
ntAmount 
(£)Fee 
(£) Total (£)
1 26 February 2019 Wall-it 1,740.87 52.05 1,792.92
2 26 February 2019 Wall-it 191.50 5.73 197.23
3 07 March 2019 Wall-it 1,550.21 46.35 1,596.56
4 07 March 2019 Wall-it 3,444.90 103.00 3,547.90
5 07 March 2019 Wall-it 2,153.35 64.39 2,217.74
6 12 March 2019 Wall-it 2,643.90 79.05 2,722.95
7 30 March 2019 Wall-it 2,508.56 75.01 2,583.57
Total 14,233.29 425.58 14,658.87
Mr S has said he also made a further payment of £2,500 via Transferwise on 26 March 2019 
but I can see this payment was returned to his account the following day, so Ive not included 
this payment (and its return) in the list above for the sake of simplicity.
Mr S subsequently reported to M&S that hed been scammed. M&S didnt reimburse Mr S. 
And Mr S remained unhappy. So he referred his complaint about M&S to us. As our 
investigator (who recommended that the complaint be upheld) was unable to resolve matters 
informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75)
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint about all of 
the payments (which were all credit card payments) on the basis that M&S is liable under 
s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what s.75 actually says:
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim  
a) under a non-commercial agreement,
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise, there must therefore be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to the transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item to which the supplier attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000.
Ill deal with each of these requirements in turn. 
First, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain of Mr 
S (the debtor), M&S (the creditor), and Kruger Exchange (the supplier). 
Ive noted that Mr S paid Wall-it using his credit card, which corresponds with other 
information this service has seen where Kruger Exchange is listed as the supplier in dispute. 
Mr S has also provided screenshots of the payments, which correspond with the dates and 
amounts paid, on which the merchant is named as Kruger Exchange. This suggests to me 
that Wall-it was doing no more than processing the payments on behalf of Kruger Exchange.
But where a payment processor is used in a credit card transaction, it doesnt break the DCS 
chain, it just creates a four-party agreement. Weve published final decisions on this issue.
Here Wall-it (and any Merchant Acquirer present) appears to be in the business of providing 
financial transactional services for Kruger Exchange. The transactional services provided 
here by these parties are in effect those that have been outsourced to them by the parties. 
And clearly the network in this case had arrangements with Wall-it (and any Merchant 
Acquirer) and M&S would be able to know of the parties within the arrangement here and the 
respective offerings provided prior to the transaction in this case by dint of Wall-it and any 
Merchant Acquirer being users of the network used here. In absence of any evidence M&S 
holds to demonstrate that M&S was doing more than just processing payments in this 
agreement, Im satisfied that there is no break in the DCS chain.  
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of the deal. Here, Mr S 
deposited funds for use on an investment platform and to be able to withdraw them as and 
when he wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  
Im satisfied there was a transaction for this deposit (which Ill call the deposit-transaction) 
as defined by the Act. 
To finance (or financed by the agreement) is also not defined under the Act. An ordinary 
definition would be to provide funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB 
Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal 
agreed, The phrase to finance Approaching the matter in a common sense way, the 
phrase must mean provide financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer 
clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is given time to pay for his purchases under the terms of the credit 
card agreement.  
Applying this ordinary definition here, if Mr S had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit-transaction. So, its clear that the 
deposit-transaction was financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction. Its 
important to consider what Mr Ss claim is here. Its evident from his testimony and 
correspondence that he feels he was tricked into depositing the payments with Kruger 
Exchange which had the dual purpose of:
a) stealing the deposit money; and
b) encouraging Mr S to deposit further amounts. 
Mr S does not believe that Kruger Exchange was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking it was.
This claim, that Mr S was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
In this case, if Mr S was told by Kruger Exchange matters that were factually untrue to trick 
him into the deposit-transaction, his claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if Kruger 
Exchange made binding promises to him as part of the transaction and went on to breach 
these, that would make his claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
M&S seems to take the position that the deposit was nothing more than transferring money 
onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the money, rather than 
being payments for the purchase of goods or services. However, when funds are deposited 
onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of money between accounts; the 
deposit may also have been made in return for something. And in this case, I am satisfied 
Kruger Exchange made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit-transaction. Its 
important to note that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there 
anything within the Act that would exclude the present type of transactions.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to these credit card deposit-
transactions. Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr S has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr S has made a claim of misrepresentation by Kruger Exchange  that claim 
being that it represented to him that it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show a false statement of 
fact and that this induced Mr S into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of factIf Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one 
through which Mr S could have ever received back more money than he deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by Kruger Exchange to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr S could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied, based on Mr Ss account of events and the overall circumstances, 
that Kruger Exchange did state that Mr S could make money from the trading platform. 
that induced Mr S into entering the agreement
Again, if Kruger Exchange was essentially a scam designed to relieve investors of their 
money, rather than a legitimate service  and if Mr S had known this  theres really little 
question: he would not have invested with Kruger Exchange. Consequently, should I be 
satisfied that Kruger Exchange wasnt a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be 
demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Ive found Mr Ss account of events persuasive.  
On 13 March 2019 (so after transaction 6 but before transaction 7), the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) published an alert about Marketing Essentials trading as Kruger Exchange 
Ltd, warning that it was offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation.
I understand M&S has said this FCA warning isnt evidence that Kruger Exchange was 
operating a scam, but merely that it wasnt regulated and customers should proceed with 
caution. However, binary options/forex traders offering services in the UK were required to 
be regulated by the FCA at the time of Mr Ss payment, and Kruger Exchange wasnt. Nor 
was Kruger Exchange licensed or regulated abroad as far as Im reasonably aware. There 
are also many online reviews from victims that share similar experiences to that of Mr S.
Taking everything together, I think its most likely that Kruger Exchange was not operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think it made misrepresentations to Mr S  
specifically that it was a genuine enterprise through which he could have got back more than 
his deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr S had known this, he wouldnt 
have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, is that they are entitled to recover from the 
wrongdoer all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities 
v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that 
must be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation; and
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction feesThe transaction fees linked to each credit card deposit-transaction are somewhat straight 
forward to cover off. Had the deposit-transactions not have occurred, the transaction fees 
couldnt have occurred. The transaction fees were a direct consequence of the deposit-
transactions. So, Im satisfied Mr Ss payment of the transaction fees was consequential loss 
in misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Ive not considered breach of contract because Im satisfied Mr S can claim back the full 
amount taken from his credit card through a claim under misrepresentation.
Putting things right
Ive explained, in relation to these credit card payments, why Im satisfied Mr S has a claim 
for misrepresentation, on the basis that Kruger Exchange misrepresented matters, namely 
that it was operating a legitimate enterprise and he could earn a profit from his deposit-
transactions. M&S should pay Mr S £14,658.87 (the payments plus the fees), plus interest 
from the date of the payments to the date of settlement calculated at 8% simple per year. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc to pay Mr S £14,658.87, plus interest calculated at 8% simple per 
year from the date of the payments to the date of settlement. If M&S deducts tax from this 
interest, it should provide Mr S with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman