DRN-1058354
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has declined a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S car was stolen from a driveway outside a property. LV has declined the claim as it says 
a set of keys was left in the car and as a result the claim isnt covered by the policy. 
Mr S doesn't think this is fair. He believes the car was locked and says it was some 10 to 15 
meters from the pavement of the public road. The second set of keys wasnt visible and was 
in a closed compartment. He says the car was locked, secure and he had met the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He wants LV to deal with his claim.
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
In the call notifying LV of the loss Mr S told it he was only 90% sure the car was 
locked as he was taking suitcases out of it. More recently having spoken to his wife 
he is sure it was locked. There werent any signs left of forced entry to the car such 
as broken glass. So its more likely the car was probably left unlocked.
Mr S says a set of keys was left in the car by accident in the glove box. And a second 
set of keys was apparently in the house where he was staying. But its likely the set of 
keys in the car was used to steal it.
The policy terms and conditions say LV will not pay for loss or damage to the car if it 
has been left unlocked or the ignition key is left in or on it, or if theyve been left in the 
immediate proximity of the car. 
Mr S had left the car and was for the most part in the garden away from it and the car 
was out of his view. That is unattended. And the driveway it was in, although private, 
is still easily accessible by the public.
LV hasnt acted unreasonably in applying the keys in car term of the policy in 
denying Mr S claim. He will not be asking it to do anything more.
Mr S doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says the car was always 
left locked when unattended. It was locked in this case as required by the policy terms. The 
police say skilled criminals had access to an electronic device to operate the locking and 
ignition system. He disagrees the car was unattended.
Mr S has recently said the car has been found abandoned and is in police custody. LV says 
the claim is still declined. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr S policy clearly says that the car must be locked and that loss or damage isnt covered 
where the ignition key is left in, on or in the immediate proximity of the car. 
Here Mr S appears to have left the car parked in a private driveway in front of a house while 
he was having lunch at the rear of the house. It was left unattended for a couple of hours 
before the theft was discovered. 
Mr S accepts a set of keys was left in the car albeit out of sight in a glove compartment. And 
although he says the car would normally be left locked he wasn't initially sure of this and 
cannot prove this was the case here. In light of this and the fact that there wasnt any sign of 
forced entry, like broken glass, I agree with the investigator that its more likely the second 
set of keys in the car was used to steal it, than not. 
Mr S has just reported that the car has been recovered by the police. But I dont think this 
means LV must now deal with the claim as the policy says loss or damage arent covered 
where the key if left in or near the car. So the fact its recovered and may be repairable 
doesnt change things.
Theres also nothing to support the suggestion the thieves might have used an electronic 
device to operate the locking and ignition system. But if, now the car has been recovered, 
any new evidence becomes available showing the car was locked, the spare key wasnt 
used in the theft and an electronic device was used to override the locks and ignition system 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for LV to reconsider its decision on whether or not to 
deal with Mr S claim. 
I understand Mr S frustration at what has happened. But on the available evidence I dont 
think LV has acted unfairly or contrary to the terms and conditions of Mr S policy by 
declining his claim. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask it to deal with the claim as 
hed like.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman