DRN-1043918
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that National Westminster Bank plc (the Bank) closed his account, requiring 
the repayment of an overdraft and separate credit card account balances, without providing 
a process to facilitate this.
 What happened
The Bank wrote to Mr G in February 2019 telling him they had decided to close his current 
account. This gave 60 days notice for him to make other arrangements and to repay any 
outstanding overdraft.
Mr G rang the Bank and told them he could not deal with this as his wife was ill and that as a 
long-standing customer the closure was unreasonable. The Bank responded to say that it 
was entitled to do this and set out what would happen if the overdraft was not cleared by the 
closure date.
The account was closed at the end of the notice period. The overdraft had not been repaid 
so it was passed to the Banks Debt Management team and later to external debt collection 
agencies. 
Mr G states he had difficulty dealing with his debt as different departments (one for the 
overdraft and another for the credit cards) were contacting him and neither knew the full 
picture. Mr G says there were problems making contact due to large time differences as he 
was abroad for a lengthy period. Mr G states the Banks actions led to other creditors closing 
accounts.
Mr G referred the complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. Having done 
so, they didnt uphold the complaint. They said that the Bank had acted reasonably as it had 
followed the terms and conditions of the account and the regulatory rules and standards set 
out in the Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBS).
Mr G replied saying both the Banks and our investigation hadnt addressed his complaint 
correctly. 
Mr G says he accepts the Bank could close his account. Instead, he was complaining about 
a lack of process to enable him to arrange the repayment of the debts and that the Bank 
would not engage with him. Mr G wanted one point of contact for all his accounts. Our 
investigator raised this with the Bank. Who replied that this wasnt possible, as they were 
separate accounts dealt with by separate departments. But said that each would take into 
account payments required on other accounts. Mr G does not think the Bank has treated him 
fairly.
Our investigator asked Mr G for details about the credit card, any repayment proposals and 
any failure of the Bank or its agents to engage with him, but Mr G didnt provide anything 
further.As Mr G disagrees with our investigators view the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
I have considered both the account closure and what happened afterwards in coming to this 
decision.
Closure of the account
Banks offer accounts at their discretion and can generally decide to close them if they wish. 
Mr G says he accepts that the Bank had the right to close his account but he was clearly 
angry about this. 
The Banks closure letter gave the required notice set out in the terms and conditions and 
the account was closed once this ended. So, while I realise how unhappy Mr G was with this 
decision, I think the Bank followed its process correctly here and gave Mr G fair notice of its 
intention to take this action.
Process after closure
As a business, a bank is entitled to recover money owed to them. Here, when the Bank told 
Mr G it would be closing his account, the relevant letter confirmed that any outstanding 
balance should be repaid by the closure date.
 When Mr G called the Bank following receipt of the closure letter they told him that if he 
couldnt repay the full amount by the closure date it would be passed to their Debt 
Management department which would be able to discuss repayment plans with him. 
The next day, when the Bank wrote to Mr G rejecting his complaint, it confirmed these 
procedures:
If your account is not cleared, they will remain open and moved to the Debt 
Management Operations (DMO) to manage as per their process 
The DMO team will come to an arrangement with you however this doesnt happen 
until after the closure of your account.  
They also provided the phone number for the Account Maintenance team should Mr G wish 
to discuss this matter further.
All of this shows that the Bank was following its procedure for the closure of accounts. 
Closing an account will often be frustrating and inconvenient for a customer, as it was for Mr 
G. But that doesnt mean the Bank acted wrongly when they did this. They gave him a 
number of options for how he could discuss the situation to minimise any disruption caused 
by this. It also explained what would happen moving forward. 
Mr G may not have agreed with the process and felt a more personal approach should have 
been taken due to his previous relationship with the Bank. But, the Bank are entitled to 
decide on the processes they have in place for situations like this. I havent seen anything to 
say that this process meant that Mr G was treated unfairly here. Mr G says he was contacted by DMO and then debt collection agencies on numerous 
occasions. Recovery action from debt collectors is normal banking practice if a repayment 
plan cant be agreed, or if a customer doesnt engage with the process, as appears to have 
been the case here. 
Mr G hasnt provided details about the credit card debt he says was also subject to recovery 
action. Banks are required to treat customers positively and sympathetically over debt 
problems. Mr G hasnt provided any evidence of unreasonable or unfair behaviour by the 
Bank in relation to this complaint though.
To come to a repayment agreement Mr G would need to explain his overall financial 
position. The Bank said they would take into account repayments required on other 
accounts. This required Mr G to engage with them. I dont think having two points of contact 
rather than one prevented him from doing this. 
Mr G says the Banks actions damaged his credit rating and resulted in other creditors 
closing accounts. But banks will make reports about how customers conduct their accounts 
to credit reference agencies. If these reports are accurate, any action taken by other 
creditors is not the Banks fault, so they did nothing wrong here.  
I understand that this was a very stressful time for Mr G and his family. Some of his later 
emails to us indicate he wanted our service to mediate a repayment agreement with the 
Bank for him which is not our role as an independent dispute resolution service. But having 
looked at what the Bank did here  Im satisfied they gave him the correct advice as to how 
he could negotiate something like this here.
Overall, I dont think the Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably. The account was correctly 
closed. There is a process to deal with the consequences of closure, including when a debt 
cant be settled in full. Mr G was made aware of this process at an early stage. So I wont be 
telling the Bank to do what Mr G wants here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster Bank 
plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman