DRN-2817429
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC has allowed her to spend in excess of 
£12,000 on gambling.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well-understood by both parties. In 
summary, Miss T held a current account with Barclays and, between 26 August and 
10 September 2019, used her debit card to make payments totalling £12,677 to various 
online gambling companies. Miss T tells us she has bipolar disorder and thinks Barclays 
shouldve done more to help prevent this spending, which she says took place during a 
number of manic episodes.
Barclays refused to refund any of the payments. But, following intervention by one of our 
investigators, the bank offered £2,500 compensation to Miss T to recognise that it ought to 
have done more to help. Miss T didnt think this was sufficient because she felt the bank was 
responsible for all of the money she lost through gambling. 
I issued a provisional decision in March this year setting out why I thought the banks offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. I said, in summary, that:
One of the Financial Conduct Authoritys strategic objectives is to protect customers. The 
Principles for Business require businesses to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. And its published a number of occasional and 
consultation papers about vulnerable customers and the need to treat them fairly dating 
back to, at least, 2015. The British Bankers Association also published a report about 
improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances in February 2016.
There is currently no industry-agreed definition for problematic or harmful gambling. But I 
cited various publications and concluded it wasnt in dispute that harm could arise, or be 
suffered, as a result of compulsive gambling.
Miss Ts complaint was not straightforward to decide and I had to balance a number of 
competing obligations. The first being that Barclays is expected to process payments 
that Miss T authorises it to make. But I also had to take account of the wider issues 
noted above. And there are also some situations where we believe banks, taking into 
account relevant rules, codes and best practice standards, shouldnt have taken their 
customers authorisation instruction at face value  or should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. 
Miss T told us she has bipolar disorder and entered a manic phase on 26 August, which 
is what led to her spending so much on gambling in such a short space of time. She also 
said shed banked with another current account provider in the past, but her account was 
closed in July/August 2019 because shed gambled excessively from it and the provider 
didnt have the facility to stop the transactions, so it asked her to seek alternative 
banking arrangements. I thought it safe to assume from this that Miss T had some 
understanding that it can be difficult for banks and building societies to help customers 
with gambling problems. Yet there was nothing to suggest she warned Barclays about 
her condition at any point between the date she opened the account in March 2019 and 
27 August 2019 when she first complained about the banks failure to stop her gambling.
Despite what shes said, I thought it more likely than not Miss T responded twice to a text 
message the bank sent her 26 August 2019 after flagging potential fraud on her account 
after she attempted to make four payments to gambling companies, totaling £500, within 
less than 10 minutes. And the second response likely confirmed the transactions were 
genuine. I didnt think an obvious pattern of excessive gambling had emerged at the 
point the bank sent those texts. And, overall, I didnt think the transactions and text 
message exchanges that took place ought to have put the bank on notice at that 
particular point in time that Miss T might have needed additional support.
I was somewhat surprised Barclays fraud systems didnt trigger again given the volume 
of transactions and the amounts Miss T subsequently spent on gambling after the block 
was lifted on 26 August until 15:00 the following day when she called the bank. But 
Miss T had admitted it was she who made the payments, she was spending her own 
money and I thought it arguable there was a limit to how much a bank should interfere 
with such spending choices. The bank was still unaware, at that point, of Miss Ts mental 
health condition or that she had a problem with gambling. I also noted the evidence 
indicated that just a few days before Miss T started using her Barclays account to 
gamble, she had withdrawn over £19,000 of winnings from one of her online gambling 
accounts. Some of what she spent from her Barclays account might have related to 
those winnings and she hadnt complained to the bank about her spending until after she 
spent a lot on gambling but failed to win in the way she had done previously. Overall, I 
couldnt fairly say the bank was responsible for Miss Ts spending during that period of 
time or should refund any of the payments she made.
Miss T called the bank at 15.00 on 27 August 2019 to tell it she had a gambling problem 
and bipolar disorder. And she made a number of further calls to the bank after that over 
the next 24 hours or so. I thought the bank could have better handled its interactions with 
Miss T during some of those calls and some unnecessary confusion was caused along 
the way. A gambling block was applied to Miss Ts account in one of the later calls. It 
also wasnt clear why a gambling block hadnt been offered sooner, but no financial loss 
had resulted from that omission. The bank had, latterly, admitted it could have done 
better. I took all this into account when deciding whether the banks offer of 
compensation was sufficient.
The gambling block appeared to have worked for a time, blocking some payments to 
gambling companies, but was subsequently removed by Miss T on 30 August 2019. I 
thought Miss T sounded clear and calm and was able to pass the banks security checks 
during phone calls that took place around that time. I didnt think the bank ought to have 
realized she was in the grips of another manic episode or was unable to make 
reasonable decisions. Gambling blocks vary from bank to bank and I hadnt seen 
anything which suggested Barclays told Miss T it would take any additional steps if she 
did try to remove the block. I didnt think, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, 
that it was inappropriate for the bank to allow the gambling block to be removed.
After the gambling block was removed, Miss T transferred money into her account from 
an account with another bank and made a further 18 payments to gambling companies 
between 30 August and 10 September 2019. The volume and frequency of payments 
had decreased from the earlier spending pattern and there were longer periods when it 
seemed Miss T was better able to control her spending. She sounded calm and 
composed in one call to the bank during this period of time. But in a later call she sounded more agitated and repeatedly mentioned her mental health disorder and 
financial difficulties. She also asked twice for her account to be closed to try and help 
prevent any further spending, yet the bank said it was unable to help. Miss T spent more 
money on gambling after that call and then called the bank again. At that point Barclays 
was more helpful and her debit card was cancelled again to prevent further spending. 
The bank told us it is committed to supporting customers impacted by gambling harm 
and/or those who are otherwise vulnerable. But that didnt seem to accord with the 
treatment Miss T had received in every call. I had difficulty understanding why her card 
wasnt cancelled sooner as that might have prevented the later payments. But I thought 
Miss T mightve made those payments through other means, be that using her other 
bank account or through the other payment methods she had in place (which seemed to 
be considerable, given some information wed received from one of the gambling 
companies).I took all of this into account when deciding whether the banks offer of 
compensation was fair.
I thought it fair to say Miss T was still responsible for her actions, even when in the grip 
of a compulsion. But, overall, it was clear to me that the service and support Barclays 
provided had fallen short at times. And there was a possibility it might have been able to 
prevent some of the later transactions, after Miss T told them about her mental health 
condition and problem gambling which totaled in the region of £2,000. But I also had to 
consider that Miss Ts apparent complex needs mightve made it more difficult for the 
bank to support her in the way she seems to have needed. And, even if the bank had 
taken additional steps to prevent some of the payments, her compulsion to do so might 
have meant shed still have found ways to gamble and suffered the same losses. So I 
couldnt fairly instruct Barclays to refund the majority of the payments Miss T had made. 
While it was arguable the bank should refund the payments that took place after she 
called at 16.26 on 10 September I noted Barclays had already made an offer that 
exceeded that amount. Having considered the overall impact the banks failures had on 
Miss T and, in all the circumstances, I thought the offer of £2,500 was fair and 
reasonable.
Barclays agreed with my provisional findings, but Miss T did not. She said, in summary, that:
She couldnt have gambled using facilities offered by other providers. The account she 
held with another bank had a gambling block in place with a 48-hour cooling off period 
which also required a phone call before removal was possible.
Barclays knows she has bipolar disorder because she has a vulnerable person trust fund 
account with them.
Various members of the banks staff and our investigator said, at various points in time, 
that she would get all her money back with compensation. I shouldnt ignore that she can 
be articulate while being in a manic episode. I should listen to all the calls she had with 
the bank and award a full refund.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The concerns Miss T has expressed about the way weve handled her complaint has been 
dealt with separately to this decision. Ive reviewed the case afresh and have reached what I 
consider to be a fair and reasonable decision, irrespective of what the investigator 
concluded.Ive still seen nothing which supports Miss Ts assertion that the bank knew, or ought to have 
known, about her mental health disorder before she told it about this in the 27 August phone 
call. Barclays has provided (in confidence) evidence about the trust fund account that Miss T 
mentioned in response to my provisional decision. Im satisfied from this that shes not a 
trustee or a named individual on the account  so her personal details are not held in relation 
to that account  and the account is not linked in any way to her current account. Nor do I 
believe the two accounts ought to have been linked or, if they were, that this would have 
made the bank aware of Miss Ts condition.
Miss T also says she couldnt use her other current account to gamble because she had an 
active gambling block on it which, she seems to suggest, she wouldnt have easily been able 
to remove. It seems likely thats the reason she repeatedly transferred money from that 
account to the one she had with Barclays, before spending it on gambling. And that further 
suggests to me that she was willing, and able to take the necessary steps to circumvent any 
blocks or support that may have been put in place in order to continue gambling. Also, as I 
said before, the evidence Ive seen suggests she might have other means of making 
payments. So, even if Barclays had done more to block any of the payments to gambling 
companies she made from her current account, Miss T might well have still gambled the 
money via other means. 
Miss T has referenced conversations she had with the bank in which she says certain 
promises were made about money being refunded. Also that I shouldnt base my decision on 
how articulate she sounded during phone calls. I accept the possibility she was in the grips 
of manic episodes when she made some of the calls. But the point I was making is that I 
didnt think the bank ought to have realised purely from the way Miss T presented during 
those calls that she might need additional support. I have reached my decision after 
reviewing all the available evidence. Ive taken into account what was discussed during 
Miss Ts phone calls with the bank and I agree, at times, it couldve done more to help and 
likely caused some confusion. But, overall, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
and summarised above, I dont think that means Barclays should pay more than it has 
already offered.
Overall, I remain satisfied that the banks offer of £2,500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £2,500 to Miss T in full
and final settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman