DRN-3038397
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr Y 
says was applied to a store card he took out in1997. The credit facility was provided by a 
high street store, but there has been a change in the company which is now responsible for 
answering these types of complaint. The company now responsible is called Allianz 
Insurance Plc.
Ill therefore refer mainly to Allianz throughout this final decision.  
Background
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Mr Y says he doesnt remember being told about it or ever 
agreeing to buy it. He initially said he tended never to take out these types of insurance.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr Y disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So 
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based form. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the applicant 
was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mr Y filled out when he took out the card and PPI. I can see 
there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited him to either tick - or 
leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Mr Ys from was ticked and he also inserted his date of birth and his printed name 
alongside the person to be insured. So, I think this strongly suggests that he did want PPI 
when he applied for the card. Because I also think he would have had access to the terms 
and conditions as Ive described above, I think he consented to the PPI cover when he 
ticked at this point. I think hed have been equally free to not have asked for the PPI. I also 
think Mr Y would have been able to see any PPI charges being applied to his account on his 
regular statements. I was shown many of these statements and words PAYMENT 
PROTECTION was regularly shown on them alongside certain charges. I think if hed never 
asked for PPI, he would have wanted to know what these were for.
I accept Mr Y may not remember what he did some 25 years ago, but Im afraid this all 
points to him giving his consent and Im sorry hes also had to wait a while for his complaint 
to reach this stage. However, I note Mr Y said, after our adjudicator had issued their view, 
that taking out the insurance was necessary to have the card approved. Im afraid everything 
Ive seen, as described above, shows otherwise. 
I think his consent was very clearly provided when he filled out and signed the form.
Allianz provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mr Y to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover. I acknowledge 
Allianz could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Mr Y had access to enough information to allow him to make an informed 
decision. 
Mr Y probably had some sickness protection with his job, but I think the policy was still of 
some use  and as Ive said the decision was his to make. Ive also checked that Mr Y was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended to see in 
some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered seems affordable for him and it would 
have paid off 15% of the outstanding store card balance each month until he returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits would have been in 
addition to any other means Mr Y had in place at the time.
So although I cant say why Mr Y decided to select this cover when he applied for the card, I 
think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to him. I think this could 
explain why he chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mr Ys complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that he wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont 
have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen clearly shows Mr Y specifically selected the PPI 
and had access nearby to the information he needed about the PPI policy and its rules. 
This PPI policy was not mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint or require Allianz Insurance Plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman