DRN-3368832
The complaint
Mr L complains that Wise Payments Limited deposited a transfer into the wrong account and 
failed to take reasonable measures to get it back. 
What happened
On 15 March 2021 a transfer for a substantial sum was sent to Wise, intended for Mr L. But 
due to an error on the transfer instruction the wrong account number was noted. As a result, 
the funds were deposited in an unintended recipients account. The funds were withdrawn by 
the unintended recipient the same day. 
On 18 March 2021 the issue was raised with Wise and it began an investigation. Wise 
attempted to contact the unintended recipient but the funds werent returned. 
On 23 March 2021 Wise attempted to recall funds from the unintended recipients bank but 
has been unsuccessful. 
Mr L complained and Wise sent him a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake. 
Wise said it had processed the transfer in line with its instructions and tried to retrieve the 
funds. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Wise had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr L asked 
to appeal and explained he feels Wise shouldve done more to check the account name and 
details included in the transfer instruction matched. As Mr L asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In response to our investigator, Mr L highlighted foreign legislation concerning the 
verification process for transfers. I understand Mr Ls view that Wise shouldve verified the 
account number and name included in the transfer instruction matched. Ive considered 
whether the regulations that apply here require Wise to take that step. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr L as I understand his view, but the regulations Wise was operating under dont 
require it to specifically match the name of an account to the account number during a 
transfer process. 
The transfer process is largely automated and Wise has explained it followed its instructions 
by applying the funds to the nominated account. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L but Im 
satisfied thats the case. I havent been persuaded that Wise incorrectly applied the transfer.
I can see that Wise contacted the unintended recipient when the issue was brought to its 
attention and went on to chase when no responses were received. The funds were quickly  
transferred from the unintended account. I understand Mr L feels it shouldve been a simple 
matter for Wise to reverse the transfer, but Im satisfied it needed to contact the account 
holder to verify the request before it could be completed. As no agreement was received to 
return the disputed funds and they had been transferred, Wises options were limited. But I 
havent found that Wise acted unfairly when it declined Mr Ls request to reverse the 
transfer.
The sending bank attempted to recall the transfer on 23 March 2021 but the funds had 
already been removed at that point so it couldnt proceed.
Wise has explained it cant release identifying information for the unintended recipient 
because of data protection laws and Im satisfied thats the case. Wise has confirmed it will 
release the private information to the Police as well as this service. I can confirm that weve 
been given evidence that supports the information Wise has provided to Mr L about the 
transfer and its attempts to contact and obtain a refund from the unintended recipient. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L as the sums involved are substantial and I appreciate a 
genuine mistake was made. But Im satisfied Wise followed its transfer instructions and 
made reasonable attempts to retrieve the funds from the unintended recipient. As Im 
satisfied Wise dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman