DRN-2309139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold an 
Advantage Gold packaged bank account to Mr K in May 2009. They say that Mr K was told 
that he had to take out the Advantage Gold account in order to get a preferential rate on a 
personal loan.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think that NatWest had mis-sold the 
packaged account. Mr and Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. Having looked at all 
the information provided, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr K was given a clear choice in taking the Advantage 
Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, having weighed up what 
both parties have been able to provide me with. Mr K upgraded from a free account, so I 
think that he wouldve been aware that NatWest did free accounts and that they were an 
option for him. Mr K has said that he thought that he had to take out the account in order to 
get a preferential rate on a personal loan and this was one of the main benefits of the 
account at the time. So if he was told this when he took out the personal loan, than this was 
a correct statement by NatWest. Overall, I am satisfied that Mr K was given a fair choice to 
take out the Advantage Gold account.
Mr and Mrs K also says that they believe that Mr K was pressured into taking out the 
Advantage Gold account, as it was the only way to receive a competitive loan rate. Firstly, I 
should explain that the interest rates that NatWest offers its customers is down to its own 
commercial judgement and is not something I can comment on. Ultimately, it is up to 
NatWest to decide on what terms it is willing to lend to a customer. In this instance it chose 
to offer a particular interest rate to people who held an Advantage Gold account and it is 
then up to a customer to decide whether to agree to that deal or look elsewhere. I think this 
is what happened during the sale of the account was agreed to on that basis.
Mr and Mrs K say that the other benefits that the account came with were not of use. But 
again I think Mr K took out the account knowing that he did not have to, in order to benefit 
from beneficial borrowing rates. I can also see that they went on to make use of these 
benefits as they saved over £900 in loan interest during the time they held the account.
Im open to the possibility Mr K may not have been told absolutely everything he needed to 
know, about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I think he was told enough to 
be able to decide if the account was right for him. And cant see anything specific that Mr K 
was not told, that I think wouldve changed his decision to take out the account.
 
Mr K and Mrs K have explained that they should have been told by NatWest that they were 
not using the other account benefits and therefore that they should downgrade. However, 
this was not something that it was required to do and it was up to them to decide to keep the 
account if they did not think it was providing them with value for money.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ks strength of feeling that this account was mis-sold. But for me to 
say that NatWest should refund the account fees, I would need to be satisfied that NatWest 
did something wrong. In this instance NatWest offered Mr K an account and Mr K accepted 
this account because he wanted one of the benefits that it came with. So while I want to 
reassure Mr and Mrs K that I have looked at all the information provided and thought about 
everything they have said, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman