DRN-4273450
The complaint
Mr O complains that Think Money Limited blocked his account, he couldnt have access to 
his funds. Mr O wants the account unblocked, compensation and an apology.
What happened
Mr O had an account with Think Money.
Following payments in and out of his account Think Money carried out a review of Mr Os 
account. They blocked his account on 1 November 2021 whilst they reviewed it. Think 
Money requested proof of entitlement of funds. Mr O provided evidence to Think Money.
On 6 December 2021 Think Money issued Mr O with a notice to close. It gave Mr O seven 
days notice of closure, but the account remained blocked during this time. On 7 December 
2021 the funds were returned to source.
Mr O says he provided information to Think Money as requested and even got the sender to 
provide information for Think Money, but the account remained blocked. Mr O says he was 
never told why the account was blocked.
Mr O hasnt complained about the return of funds to source or the closure of the account, so 
these havent been considered in this complaint.
Mr O complained to Think Money. They said the account terms allowed them to block and 
review his account and in reviewing his account they were complying with their regulatory 
obligations.
Mr O remained dissatisfied, so he complained to our service. One of our adjudicators looked 
into the complaint. She said Think Money hadnt acted unfairly when they reviewed and 
blocked Mr Os account and asked for proof of entitlement to the funds. She said Think 
Money didnt have to give Mr O a reason for the account block, so she didnt think they had 
acted unfairly.
Mr O was unhappy with the view. He thought he should be told why his account had been 
blocked and he should have been given an explanation. He didnt think it was fair that Think 
Money had held his funds for over a month.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr O and 
Think Money have said before reaching my decision.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Os account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Think Money were complying with 
these obligations when they reviewed Mr Os account. The terms of the account also allow 
them to review payments.
These obligations mean they may need to review an account at any time. While that is 
happening, they may need to block or restrict any payments. I can see that in blocking the 
account the bank were following an internal process which they carried out in order to 
comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant 
say Think Money was unfair. 
Mr O has said he provided Think Money with the information they requested and even went 
so far as to provide a letter from the sender of the money but Think money still kept his 
account blocked.
Mr O also said he didnt know why he was asked to explain the reference for the money, and 
he doesnt understand what the reference has to do with holding the funds. 
Ive already said that Think Money were entitled to review and block the account and request 
information from Mr O as part of the review. I know Mr O thinks that there is or should be a 
time limit for carrying out a review and that Think Money were breaking the law or taking 
advantage of the law by taking a whole month to carry out their review. 
I have considered what Mr O has said. I appreciate it was inconvenient having his funds 
blocked, but there is no prescribed timeframe to carry out a review of an account. I have 
looked at the information provided to me, and Im satisfied that Think Money didnt cause 
any delays in carrying out their review. They were complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations, and I am satisfied that they acted fairly when they carried out a review of Mr Os 
account.  I dont think they were acting against the law or taking advantage of the law as 
Mr O has suggested.
Mr O was unhappy about the questions that were asked about the reference. Any questions 
or requests for information were part of the review process and Ive already said Think 
Money were entitled to review and block the account as part of its legal and regulatory 
obligations.
Mr O has said that it cant be legal to bock and review an account without telling the account 
holder the reason why. I am sorry to disappoint Mr O but Think Money doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr O 
the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr O this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so.
In summary looking at everything Im satisfied Think Money havent acted unfairly here so I 
wont be asking them to do anything else.My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman