DRN-2676512
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold it a merchant services 
agreement and didnt explain the cancellation terms.
What happened
K entered into a merchant services agreement with Lloyds in November 2019. But shortly 
afterwards, in December 2019, it asked to cancel the agreement, saying it didnt want or 
need it. Lloyds explained K would need to pay the early termination fee but K wasnt happy 
with this and complained the agreement had been mis-sold and it hadnt been told about the 
cancellation terms.
Lloyds investigated the complaint but said the cancellation terms were fully explained in the 
call when the agreement was sold and it didnt think the agreement was mis-sold. So it didnt 
agree to waive the early termination fee. K wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred 
its complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought the cancellation terms were 
explained and the agreement wasnt mis-sold. So they didnt uphold the complaint. K 
disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the agreement was mis-sold or that Lloyds should waive the 
early termination fee. Ill explain why below.
Lloyds has sent us a recording of the call in which the merchant service agreement was sold 
to K. Ive listened to this and Im satisfied the cancellation terms are explained to K during 
this call. The operator says the agreement can be cancelled at any time by giving one 
months notice, but that there will be a £200 early termination fee in the first six months. And 
Ks director, Mr T, acknowledges this.
K has also said Mr T felt intimidated and out of his depth during this call and that it was 
talked into the agreement and made to feel it couldnt say no. But I dont think the operator 
on the call was aggressive or pushy. They explained the purpose of the agreement and 
asked several times if K wanted to go ahead. And Mr T replied that he did and that the 
agreement was something he wanted for the company.
The operator did say the application could be processed more quickly if it was returned the 
same day. But this was only after Mr T had said he would sign it and return it straight away. 
So I dont think this was unreasonable or that K was unfairly pressured into entering the 
agreement.
Lloyds also sent K a written copy of the merchant services agreement, which included a 
section on fees and showed the £200 early termination fee. K had the opportunity to read 
this agreement and consider whether it was happy with it without any further contact from 
Lloyds. And K signed the agreement to say it agreed to it and returned the form to Lloyds.
So I think the £200 early termination fee was made clear to K and I dont think Lloyds unfairly 
pressured K to enter into the agreement, or otherwise mis-sold it. So I dont think Lloyds 
should have to waive the early termination fee.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman