DRN-3724432
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for mishandling his claim on a
home emergency insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include the
home assistance company, its engineers and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for
their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr H has an upper flat with a gas central heating boiler in the loft or roof space.
The home assistance company offered a home emergency insurance policy for plumbing
and heating for flats. Aviva was the insurance company responsible for dealing with any
claims.
For the year from early January 2020, Mr H took out such a policy for his flat. He agreed to
pay the yearly premium by instalments.
In mid- January 2020, Aviva did a boiler health check (BHC). It told Mr H that his boiler had
issues with the flue, lack of brackets and poor access. Aviva told Mr H that the policy
wouldnt cover his boiler until he got those issues resolved.
On 27 September 2020, Mr Hs radiators werent heating up properly. He called for help
under the policy. Aviva visited and recommended that Mr H should arrange a power flush of
the system. On 11 October 2020, Mr H got a power flush.
On 20 October 2020, Aviva sent Mr H an email saying that  in order for the cover to remain
in place - hed need to complete the work recommended following the BHC.
On 21 October 2020 and 4 November 2020, Aviva visited Mr Hs property but didnt fix the
heating.
Mr H engaged a contractor privately. On 18 November 2020, that contractor reported that a
couple of radiator valves were leaking, and an expansion vessel was split. He also added a
clip to the flue. His invoice was for £102.60.
On 24 November 2020, Mr H complained to Aviva about the lack of progress.
By a final response dated 25 November 2020, Aviva said that it wouldnt attend to the boiler.
Aviva apologised for not informing Mr H of this sooner. Aviva credited Mr Hs account with
£950.00.
On about 28 November 2020, Mr H made a further complaint to Aviva. On 30 November
2020, Aviva emailed Mr H saying that it had put the appointment for his heating repair on
hold until he returned to the UK or he could arrange for someone else to attend an
appointment at the flat.
For the year from early January 2021, Aviva offered to renew the policy for plumbing.
By a text dated 24 February 2021, Aviva said the following:
we did get it wrong this time as we failed to complete the repair within an
acceptable time frame after your initial complaint. Im sorry that this happened and
I would like to offer you £150 for the inconvenience caused.
By a final response dated 26 February 2021, Aviva said the following:
I agree the fault that occurred from 26 November should have been repaired on prior
visits.
On 30 September 2021, Mr H sent an email saying hed be returning to the UK in October
2021. He asked when he could book an engineer to do the long-awaited heating repairs.
On 8 October 2021, Aviva sent an email saying that the relevant team would be in contact to
arrange for the repair.
On 18 October 2021, Aviva emailed Mr H saying that the policy no longer covered the boiler.
On 19 October 2021, Mr H complained to Aviva that the email of 30 November 2020 had
promised an engineer.
By a final response dated 22 October 2021, Aviva said that it couldnt work on the boiler.
Aviva apologised for conflicting information.
Unhappy with that, Mr H brought his complaint to us in late October 2021.
our investigators opinion
In April 2022, our investigator considered that the final response dated 25 November 2020
was contradicted by the email dated 30 November 2020. And that final response and the
final response dated 26 February 2021 were contradicted by the final response dated 22
October 2021. So - notwithstanding the time that had passed since the first final response 
the investigator said that he could deal with the complaint. Aviva agreed with that.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think
that Aviva should repair Mr Hs boiler. He thought that Aviva was responsible for mishandling
Mr Hs expectations over a quite a long period of time and hed suffered distress and
inconvenience as a result.
The investigator recommended that Aviva should pay Mr H (in addition to the £950.00
already paid and the £150.00 offered) £200.00 compensation (a total of £1,300.00).
Aviva agreed with the investigators opinion. Aviva said that Mr H had not been charged for
boiler cover.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Aviva on 17 September 2022. I summarise my findings:
After early 2020  Mr H didnt have cover for his central heating system and wasntpaying for it. That was, in my view, the fundamental reason why Aviva didnt have to 
fix his boiler or expansion vessel or radiators.
Aviva was responsible for conflicting and confusing information.
By not challenging the payment of £950.00, Mr H had accepted it in settlement of his 
2020 complaint.
So I didnt find It fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay any further compensation 
in relation to the power flush in October 2020 or Mr Hs contractors invoice in 
November 2020. 
As the £950.00 was in settlement of the 2020 complaint, I didnt find It fair and 
reasonable to give Aviva credit for that payment in relation to the impact of later 
events and complaints.
When hed brought his complaint to us in late October 2021, Mr H had said the 
following:
" I have been away since 1st December 2020 and was supposed to return to
London earlier this month, but I am still waiting to find a solution with [Aviva] 
as it is very hard to be back home with no heating and hot water.
Mr H hadnt suffered discomfort from the absence of heating in the flat between
1 December 2020 and late October 2021.
And the final response dated late October 2022 had fairly explained that  despite 
previous conflicting information  Aviva wasnt going to cover the repair of the 
heating. So I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay compensation for 
the discomfort Mr H suffered after his return later in 2021 (or any ill effects on his 
health).
Overall, I considered that - in addition to the £950.00 in relation to events up to 25 
November 2020 - a further £350.00 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
That was the same outcome as the investigator recommended, and Aviva accepted. 
But my reasoning was different to the investigators, for example on the effect of the 
payment of £950.00 and on Mr Hs absence from the UK. So I considered that it was 
only fair that my decision should be provisional so as to give Mr H (and Aviva) an 
opportunity to consider my reasoning and to respond to it.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Aviva, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr H - in 
addition to the £950.00 in relation to events up to 25 November 2020 - a further £350.00 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr H accepted the provisional decision.
Aviva said it had nothing to add in response to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules.
Following a complaint, the rules require a regulated firm, within eight weeks, to provide a
final response, informing the consumer of the right to bring the complaint to us within six
months after the final response. We cannot usually investigate a complaint brought to us
after that period of time.
Where we uphold a complaint about an unfair act or omission, we look at the impact on the
complainant consumer. We assess compensation by reference to that impact. In an
insurance complaint, the rules dont allow us to consider the impact on anyone other than
the policyholder (for example members of the policyholders family).
The home emergency policy terms were divided into cover for heating and cover for
plumbing and drainage.
The policy terms defined plumbing and drainage as follows:
Plumbing and/or drainage: the water pipework, taps, stop taps, water storage,
drainage and waste pipes within your property 
So the plumbing and drainage cover didnt include the boiler or the expansion vessel or
radiators or radiator valves.
The policy terms for the heating system included the boiler, expansion vessel, radiators and
radiator valves. But the policy terms included the following:
Boiler Health Check: (BHC)

During the BHC our engineer will check that your boiler meets our eligibility criteria,
your boiler or central heating dont have any pre-existing faults and is in good
working order. If the BHC fails well either:
Tell you what needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost if its a repair we 
can complete
Remove the boiler/system element of cover from your policy and adjust your 
premiums accordingly
Or, cancel your agreement if you only have cover for your boiler/system and 
provide a refund
If you need to make a claim for your boiler and/or central heating system before
weve checked your boiler, we will complete the BHC at the same time we come out
to assess the problem. We will not be able to resolve your issue if your boiler does
not meet our eligibility criteria or your boiler or central heating have faults that 
preexisted the date of your policy application.
Your boiler or central heating cover will be suspended whilst you make arrangements
for the fix to be completed. If you subsequently provide evidence (within 28 days) that
the problem has been fixed we will reinstate your level of cover or agreement.
So Aviva could decide on its first visit whether the central heating system met the eligibilitycriteria. And if it didnt meet the criteria, then Aviva could remove the heating system from 
the policy but continue to cover the plumbing and drainage.
From what Ive seen, there were a number of reasons why Mr Hs system didnt meet the
eligibility criteria at the BHC in mid-January 2020. And theres no evidence that Mr H
addressed the concerns about his system within 28 days. So Aviva removed his heating 
system from cover.
From the 2021 renewal letter, I find that Aviva had continued throughout 2020 to provide
plumbing and drainage cover, but not heating cover, and it had adjusted the premium
accordingly.
So  after early 2020  Mr H didnt have cover for his central heating system and wasnt
paying for it. That is, in my view, the fundamental reason why Aviva doesnt have to fix his
boiler or expansion vessel or radiators.
Aviva was responsible for conflicting and confusing information. That included the following:
In late September 2020, failure to say there was no cover for heating.
In October 2020, suggestion of a power flush.
In October and November 2020, visits to the flat and failure to say there was no 
cover for heating.
In late November 2020, the email about arranging a further visit.
In late February 2021, an incorrect apology for not competing the repair.
In early October 2021, an incorrect suggestion that it would arrange a repair.
But I dont consider that this conflicting and confusing information means that it is fair and
reasonable to direct Aviva to repair Mr Hs boiler or heating system or to compensate Mr H
for the cost of such repairs.
Rather, Ive thought about the impact on Mr H of the conflicting information.
That impact included paying for a power flush. But Aviva said the water tests had shown that
the system had needed a flush. Mr H he knew the cost of that and the cost of his contractors
visit when he complained in late 2020. The final response in November 2020 included the
following:
In full and final settlement of your complaint, you have accepted my resolution of
£950.00 compensation to be paid into your account. I appreciate you were not happy
with the amount offered.
Mr H couldve brought his complaint to us within six months, but he didnt. I agree with the 
investigator that - because of the later reviews and final responses - we can still investigate
that complaint.
However I consider that, by not challenging the payment of £950.00, Mr H had accepted it in
settlement of that complaint. So I dont find It fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay anyfurther compensation in relation to the power flush in October 2020 or Mr Hs contractors
invoice in November 2020.
As the £950.00 was in settlement of the 2020 complaint, I dont find It fair and reasonable to
give Aviva credit for that payment in relation to the impact of later events and complaints.
I find that the email of 30 November 2020, the apology in February 2021 and the email in
early October 2021 all unfairly raised Mr H's expectations that Aviva would fix his heating on
his return to the UK.
I dont doubt that Mr H was disappointed and frustrated that Aviva's final response in
October 2021 said that his central heating wasnt covered. But I consider that Aviva was
correct.
When he brought his complaint to us in late October 2021, Mr H said the following:
" I have been away since 1st December 2020 and was supposed to return to
London earlier this month, but I am still waiting to find a solution with [Aviva] as it is
very hard to be back home with no heating and hot water.
So I find that Mr H hadnt suffered discomfort from the absence of heating in the flat between
1 December 2020 and late October 2021.
And I consider that the final response dated late October 2022 had fairly explained that 
despite previous conflicting information  Aviva wasnt going to cover the repair of the
heating. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay compensation for the
discomfort Mr H suffered after his return later in 2021 (or any ill effects on his health). 
Putting things right
Overall, I consider that - in addition to the £950.00 in relation to events up to 25 November
2020 - a further £350.00 Is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr H - in addition to the £950.00 in relation to events 
up to 25 November 2020 - a further £350.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman