DRN-4080970
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt uphold his complaint after 
he says he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The events surrounding the payment have remained unclear, as Mr A has provided several 
different versions to both Halifax and the lender. But ultimately a loan was taken out in Mr 
As name, credited to his Halifax account and then he forwarded the funds on from there.
The lender issued a final response saying; Mr A had said a loan was fraudulently applied for 
in his name and he had no knowledge and did not consent to this. He also confirmed he had 
applied for the loan and was contacted via social media by someone offering grants to 
students, and he was asked to transfer these loan funds to them. The lender reviewed the 
initial loan application which had Mr As genuine mobile number. A PIN was sent to that 
mobile number which had to be entered during the application process. In addition to that an 
email address was required, the loan was confirmed over the phone and a loan contract sent 
by email.  It went on to consider what Mr A had said about being scammed and wrote off the 
interest for the loan, but held him liable to repay the capital.  
Mr A raised a scam claim with Halifax. It looked into the matter and said the loan was initially 
paid in error and it needed to be returned, then Mr A reported that as a scam to the bank. 
Later he recalled that statement, saying it hadnt been a scam and he had forgotten he had 
applied for the loan and sent the money on, relating to the purchase of a car. Then Mr A later 
said he was contacted by someone saying they could offer a student grant and to send the 
money on for this purpose. Overall, it didnt uphold Mr As complaint, it said the matter 
should be considered by the lender and it would not be providing a refund. 
We looked into it and said we didnt think Halifax made any error in allowing the loan funds 
to be sent from Cs account. And Mr A hasnt suffered a loss from his account from Halifax 
as the funds were from a loan. Our investigator went on to say Mr A had applied for the loan 
and the loan funds were applied to his account, he then sent those funds on. Whilst she 
didnt have all the facts about the events, she didnt think the payment out of Mr As Halifax 
account was unusual or suspicious that it warranted intervention. And Halifax hadnt 
recorded negative information about Mr A.
Mr A wasnt happy with the outcome. He said hes out of pocket and these events were 
having an impact on his mental health and finances.
As Mr A wasnt happy with the outcome of his complaint, it was passed to me. Prior to 
issuing a final decision I contacted Mr A and said that I hadnt seen any evidence to support 
his claim that the payment from his Halifax account was the result of a scam. And his version 
of events had changed three times when hed contacted both Halifax and the lender. So, 
with that in mind, I wasnt persuaded that Halifax ought to offer a refund here.
I invited Mr A to provide any further evidence he may have to support his claim that he was 
scammed. 
Mr A replied saying he was the victim of a scam. He added a further explanation for this, 
saying he was sent promising trades which he fell for. He hasnt provided any supporting 
evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Mr A has now provided an additional 
explanation of the events. This is again different to the other three versions of events that 
have preceeded. 
Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to support any of the versions of events he has 
presented to either our service, Halifax or the lender. As such Im not persuaded by Mr As 
claim that he was the victim of a scam. And I am therefore not recommending that this 
complaint be upheld.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman