DRN-4289227
The complaint
Mr G complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by investment scam, or to help him recover the money once hed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr G saw positive online reviews for an investment company Ill refer to as G. He was told 
to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load 
the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet. Between 29 November 2021 and 11 December 
2021, he made six payments totalling £13,492 using a debit card connected to his Revolut 
account.
Between 27 December 2021 and 12 April 2023, he made a further nine card payments 
totalling £6911.61 to an investment company Ill refer to as A, again purchasing 
cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company before loading it onto an online 
wallet.
Mr G complained to Revolut on 10 May 2023, having learned that G had been exploited and 
his funds had been lost from the platform. He explained hed seen numerous positive 
reviews and discussions on social media, and the investment was advertised as having a 
good rate of return. He said he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known about the risks, and 
he didnt initially report the loss because he thought it was his fault for making an uninformed 
decision. He later realised Revolut should have implemented better monitoring procedures to 
identify risky transactions, and provided assistance and information regarding the potential 
risks, which would have impacted his decision.
Revolut said the transactions were all authorised transactions to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange company and it had no control over the fact G was exploited. It said a chargeback 
request wouldnt have been successful because the payments were to an account held in Mr 
Gs name and the cryptocurrency exchange which wouldve been able to evidence it had 
provided the goods/services they described. It also said it had followed Mr Gs instructions 
and processed the payments he requested. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. In addition to the payments he 
made to G, he also complained about the payments he made to A, and Revolut said it was 
happy for those transactions to be considered as part of this complaint.
Revolut also said it didnt accept Mr G had lost money to a scam because G was a legitimate 
company and he lost money is because that company was hacked, not because he was 
defrauded. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr G had authorised 
the transactions and was therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. He 
explained Revolut did have a duty to protect its customers, but this didnt extend to 
protecting them against the risk of bad bargains or investment advice, and he didnt think Mr 
G had shown he was the victim of fraud.
He explained hed searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and neither 
G or A had any adverse information reported about them. And his own research didnt result 
in any compelling information to show they were fraudulent.  He also looked at other third-
party evidence, to determine whether G or A could reasonably be regarded as fraudulently 
seeking gains at the expense of others and concluded there was no credible evidence that 
either was operating a scam.
 
Overall, our investigator concluded Mr G wasnt engaged in illegal activity and there was no 
evidence he wasnt of sound mind or incapable of making investment decisions, so while 
Revolut did have a duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams, he had paid a 
legitimate merchant and Revolut hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in failing to intervene 
before letting the payments go.
Mr G has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He maintains Revolut 
should have flagged the transactions considering they totalled £13,500 in four days, which 
was unusual considering the largest payment in the months before was £170. 
He maintains G and A were advertised as trustworthy platforms yet the loss of the funds by 
hacking meets the definition of an exit scam. He believes Revolut had a responsibility to 
flag high-risk and out-of- character transactions. And given the transfers were unlike the 
usual spending on the account, it should have intervened to question him about the 
circumstances of the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I know Mr G feels 
strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill explain 
why. 
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover Mr Gs payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr G).
Ms Gs own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Gs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Im satisfied Mr G authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive considered the available evidence, and, on balance, Im satisfied G and A were 
legitimate companies.  There are no regulatory warnings on either the FCA or IOSCO 
websites, and there are no negative reviews online or other credible evidence to show either 
company is a scam. The services being offered may have been high risk and it may be that 
Mr Gs money was lost because of hacking or some other event. But that doesnt mean 
either company was operating a scam.
The information thats available online suggests G and A are legitimate investment platforms 
and crucially they are still operating. Mr G hasnt produced any emails/messages or 
described any circumstances such as having been promised unrealistic returns or told to 
download remote access software, which might indicate he was being scammed. And I 
havent seen evidence that there were funds in an account that he was unable to withdraw or 
that he was lied to or prevented from withdrawing money that he should have had access to. 
And in the absence of such evidence, I cant fairly conclude Revolut was under an obligation 
to intervene with the purpose of preventing a fraud or scam. 
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr G 
has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman