DRN-1942877
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey National) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in 1995. Mr and Mrs B 
applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because Santander recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs B, but I dont think it was right for them. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions  this was an 
important exclusion, and I think that this wouldve mattered to Mr and Mrs B.
I say this because Mrs B had a pre-existing medical condition  and this wouldve been 
excluded from the cover that the policy provided. So, they wouldnt have been able to make 
a claim on the policy for everything they wouldve expected to. Mrs Bs condition was chronic 
 and unlikely to improve. I also think that Mrs B may have thought it likely that her condition 
would deteriorate and be a possible cause of a future clam  even if this didnt end up being 
the case.
It follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve bought the policy if Santander had made 
clear it wasnt right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of what 
Santander did wrong. 
Santander says that the exclusion wouldve been discussed at the point of sale as part of the 
suitability checks  it also asked for evidence of the medical condition. But Mr and Mrs B 
made Santander aware of Mrs B medical condition when it first brought the complaint to 
them, so had it wanted evidence, it could have asked for this while investigating the 
complaint, but it didnt do so.
I also have no reason to doubt that Mrs B did have the condition  she told both us and 
Santander from the beginning of this complaint, and I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that Santander did do everything it should have to make Mr and Mrs B aware of the 
exclusions. And I still think I should uphold the complaint.
what the business should do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give Mr and Mrs 
B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman