DRN-1224021
 
The complaint
 Mr W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Over the course of a month or so between September and October 2018 Sunny provided 
Mr W with 4 instalment loans. When they were arranged, all these loans were originally due 
to be repaid by six monthly repayments. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
 
 
loan 
date taken 
date repaid 
instalments 
amount 
combined 
repayment*
1 10/09/2018 05/10/2018 6 £400.00 £102.57
2 30/09/2018 05/10/2018 6 £100.00 £129.71
3 12/10/2018 18/04/2019 6 £100.00 £33.35
4 12/10/2018 outstanding 6 £350.00 £150.02
*this is the highest total monthly repayment required including where loans overlap
 
Mr W feels that Sunny didnt do proper checks and so failed to identify that he was using 
these payday loans to fund his gambling habit. Mr W says that because Sunny gave him 
unaffordable loans this caused his debt to spiral out of control and affected his mental 
health. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think shed seen enough to say 
that loans 1-3 shouldnt have been lent. But she felt that by loan 4 proportionate checks 
would most likely have shown Mr W was having problems managing his money and 
spending a large proportion of his income on online betting sites. So our adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 4 and she gave detailed directions setting out what she 
thought Sunny should do to put things right for Mr W. Sunny disagreed. It mainly said that it conducted robust affordability and creditworthiness 
checks for each and every loan and deems those checks proportionate to ensure its loans 
are affordable and sustainable for customers. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ws credit file. I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr W told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2 and 3. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr W, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments when loans overlapped. 
It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for Sunny 
to agree to lend. As Mr W hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in 
relation to these first three loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. 
Looking at Mr Ws borrowing pattern I can see that it looks like he took out loan 4 on the 
same day as loan 3  and both these loans started just a week after hed repaid his first two 
Sunny loans. Loan 4 was for a significant amount. So although the loan looked comfortably 
affordable on the figures Mr W gave (even on top of paying loan 3), I think his borrowing 
history shouldve prompted Sunny to carry out more thorough checks into his financial 
situation before agreeing to lend further.  
I dont think just asking Mr W about his other short term loans wouldve been enough in 
these circumstances  although had it done so Sunny wouldve likely found out that Mr W 
had been relying on other short term loans  hed repaid two just the week before taking out 
loan 4 and he was still paying another outstanding short term loan with a different lender. 
Hed arranged that loan over 12 months - possibly to keep down the cost of each monthly 
repayment. And hed only started that loan the month before taking out loan 4 with Sunny  
so it had a year or so to run. 
I think at this point Sunny should have taken steps to verify what Mr W was saying about his 
financial circumstances as they appeared at odds with his borrowing pattern. Sunny hasnt 
shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before 
agreeing loan 4. 
Mr W has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Sunny was 
likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have done this. 
But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture of Mr Ws 
finances at the time. And had Sunny looked in depth at Mr Ws finances it would likely have 
seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would have learnt 
that Mr W was regularly spending significant amounts on what appear to be gambling 
transactions. And it would have seen that it looked like he had used some of the money hed 
previously borrowed from Sunny to repay other short term loans that were due.
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to think that it was likely Mr W would be 
able sustainably to repay loan 4  so it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Sunny should put things right.
When he complained to us Mr W hadnt repaid loan 4  I dont know if thats still the case so 
Ive drafted the following directions accordingly. 
If Sunny has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what I have outlined 
below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the following:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to 
step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr W.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ws credit file for loan 4.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about loan 4. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman