DRN-1433536
The complaint
Mr T complains about problems that have come up because the postal address Lloyds Bank 
Plc (Lloyds) had for him wasnt changed when he left the UK. 
What happened
Mr T says he visited his Lloyds branch in October 2015. He was leaving the country and 
wanted to change the postal address for his account. But Mr T says he was told the address 
couldnt be changed to an address outside the UK. 
Lloyds have no record of Mr T asking to change his address in October 2015. They say the 
first record of Mr T telling them about his new address was in February 2019. They say at 
that point they changed his address, as its a relatively simple thing to do. 
Throughout 2018, Lloyds wrote to Mr T at his old UK address. They warned him that his 
account balance had gone over the agreed overdraft limit. They told him he needed to pay 
some money to fix this, and if he didnt the account would be closed. The letters also 
explained how this would affect Mr Ts credit record. 
Mr Ts statements for the account show he paid £30 in June 2018 to bring the balance back 
within the limit. But the interest on the overdraft quickly took him back over. Mr T says he 
then lost the ability to use internet banking to manage the account. In November 2018, 
having had no response to their warning letters, Lloyds closed the account and placed a 
default marker on Mr Ts credit file.
Mr T found out about the default in February 2019 when he noticed a problem with his credit 
score. He called Lloyds and updated his address. He also arranged to pay off what he owed. 
By June 2019, the account was paid off. But Mr T says he was surprised to hear the account 
was going to be closed at that point, so he called Lloyds. He says he then heard that Lloyds 
wouldnt be removing the default from his credit file. This led Mr T to raise his complaints. 
Lloyds explained why they felt their service had been reasonable, but Mr T didnt agree. Mr T 
wanted to go over the complaint in more detail, but Lloyds told him to come to us. Our 
investigation found that there wasnt any evidence of Lloyds acting unreasonably, so they 
didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Mr T wasnt happy that our investigation hadnt looked at the way Lloyds handled his 
complaint. The investigator explained that this wasnt really going to change our view about 
the default and address issues. Mr T remains unhappy about the situation, and the matter 
has now come to me for a final decision. 
Ive had a look at all the evidence and comments sent in to our investigation. Ill explain 
below why I too find the service Lloyds gave Mr T was reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Looking at the history of Mr Ts account, the default on his credit file accurately reflects that 
his account went over the agreed overdraft and stayed there for a long time, despite several 
warnings. Mr T feels this is unfair, as he didnt receive those warnings. He didnt receive the 
warnings because they were sent to an address he hadnt lived at for many years. 
I cant say exactly what happened in October 2015, when Mr T says he tried to change his 
address with Lloyds. But the result was that the account wasnt closed, and the post 
continued to be sent to Mr Ts UK address. Mr Ts comments tell me he was aware the 
account was still open and the address wasnt changed. 
From the account statements I can see Mr T went over the limit in June 2016, but then paid 
to come back under in August. And on 1 June 2018 Lloyds wrote to Mr T to say they would 
close the account in 30 days if it wasnt brought back under its limit. Mr T paid to bring it 
back under on 19 June. That tells me that Mr T was aware of his overdraft limit and how 
close he was to it over the years, even without the post reaching him.
It was Mr Ts responsibility to keep his account below the limit, if he wanted to keep it out of 
default. After June 2018, he doesnt seem to have done anything to keep the account below 
the limit, despite his last payment having only just brought the account back under the limit. 
I note Mr T says he lost his ability to access his account online, so I can see how he might 
not have been aware of the exact balance of the account from that point on. But then Lloyds 
could only help him with that if they knew there was an issue. 
I note Mr T says he wasnt able to pass Lloydss telephone banking security to get the 
problem fixed. But I dont fault a bank for trying to keep their customers accounts secure. It 
is entirely appropriate to carry out checks before taking instructions over the phone. 
Mr T has said he feels more should have been done to email him when his account was 
overdrawn. I can see how this could have helped, but it wasnt Mr Ts selected method of 
communication, and theres no indication Lloyds were receiving returned post that might 
have prompted it to consider alternative methods of contact. 
I havent heard what Mr T was told when he spoke to Lloyds in February 2019, but its 
agreed a plan to replay the account was made. It seems likely to me that Mr T was told the 
account was closed, as he agreed to pay the whole overdraft back, not to bring the balance 
back to under the limit. 
Mr T is unhappy that the default remains on his file even though hes paid the full balance 
off. Id expect Lloyds to tell Mr T that his credit record would show the default as settled 
when hed paid it off, which I can see it does. Thats not the same as removing the default 
though. The fact the account went in to default still needs to be recorded, as the file should 
be an accurate record of Mr Ts credit history. 
In response to the investigators views, Mr T has said hes not happy about the way Lloyds 
dealt with his complaint. How a company handles complaints doesnt come into our 
jurisdiction as a standalone issue. But it can be a factor when were looking at complaints 
where theres an issue with the financial services provided. Sometimes a good complaint 
handling process can put a problem right without our help. Or it can make a problem worse 
than it otherwise would have been. 
But here theres no service issue to justify looking at the complaint handling. The only 
comment to make about it is that the conclusion Lloyds reached, that their service was 
reasonable, matches my own. My final decision
Based on the evidence available, I find the service Lloyds Bank Plc gave Mr T has been fair 
and reasonable. They dont need to do anything more to resolve these complaints. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman