DRN-4201536
The complaint
In summary, Miss A complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL), calculated interest on her September 2022 statement. She is unhappy with the 
explanation given by it.
What happened
In October 2022, Miss A contacted AESEL about the interest that had been calculated on 
her September statement. She explained that she was concerned as to how the interest had 
been calculated, considering that she had paid £1,800 off the outstanding balance that 
month.
Miss As September statement set out that her previous months balance had been 
£1,952.08, new payments had been £1,801.60 and new debits in the month had been 
£2,153.53.
AESEL replied to Miss As enquiry. In its letter of 6 October 2022, it explained how the 
interest figure on her statement was calculated. In summary it said interest was charged:
On the unpaid balance from the previous months statement
On new purchases from the date incurred until the statement date
On cash advances from the day the cash is withdrawn
On balance transfers from the day the account was debited, until payment was 
received in full.
It then went on to explain by way of calculations how the interest had been applied in respect 
of the September statement. There were two elements to the calculation. One in respect of 
the September statement for Goods and Services and the second in respect of deferred 
interest on/ from the August statement.
It also explained that if less than the full amount of the statement balance was paid off 
interest from the previous months statement was deferred to the current month. 
Miss A wasnt happy with AESELs explanation and raised a complaint. In its response to her 
concerns, it explained again how interest was charged. And it also said it didnt think there 
were any errors with the interest calculation on the statement. 
Unhappy with AESELs response, Miss As complaint was looked into by one of our 
investigators. They explained why they didnt think AESEL had done anything wrong. 
In response Miss A said she wanted evidence of how the complaint had been investigated 
and the calculations the investigator had carried out. In his reply the investigator reiterated 
that he didnt think AESEL had made any errors. There wasnt any evidence it had 
calculated interest incorrectly and if Miss A could provide evidence of that he would consider 
it. He provided Miss A with of the relevant terms and conditions regarding how interest was 
applied. 
Miss A said in essence that she thought the terms were unclear. She didnt accept his 
opinion. She wanted to see evidence of the investigation that had been carried out.  The 
investigator explained he didnt have anything he could share or any specific case notes. He 
had provided a copy of the relevant term he had considered. As a result, the case has been 
passed to me for review. 
I asked the investigator to ask AESEL specific questions about the calculation it had 
provided to Miss A, on a number of occasions. AESEL responded with answers that it 
considered addressed the questions that had been posed. In relation to the daily rate of 
interest it did explain that the statement showed simple monthly interest rate of 1.92%. That 
needed to be multiplied by 12 months for the yearly simple interest rate, which was 23.04%. 
That was then divided that by 365 days to get the daily simple interest rate which was 0.063.
In relation to payments that had been made, it said interest was charged on the full balance 
not just the remaining balance.  
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2023 explaining why I intended to up the complaint 
in part as I didnt think AESEL had provided Miss A with clear information. 
No response was received from Miss A. AESEL replied. In summary, it expressed 
disappointment with my provisional decision. It said I was suggesting it change the way 
interest related terms and conditions had been written down for every single card; just 
because Miss A thought they were wrong. And it said it hadnt received calculations from 
Miss A as to what basis the interest charge had been calculated incorrectly. And it said the 
remediation suggested was something it might not be able to do. It believed it had provided 
a breakdown for the interest charge.  
I contacted AESEL and offered to discuss what I had said in my provisional decision. In my 
chaser of 16 June 2023, I said that if I would be available at 10.00 am on 20 June 2023. If I 
didnt receive a call, I would immediately proceed to issue my final decision. AESEL 
contacted me on the afternoon of 20 June 2023 and left a message inviting me to call back 
that afternoon. I returned the call but the case handler at AESEL said in a message that was 
passed on to me, they couldnt speak to me that day. They could speak to me the next day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that Miss As complaint should be upheld in part. Ive 
set out my reasoning below.
In reaching my findings and conclusions, I have focussed on the issues and evidence that I 
think are key for me to decide this case. However, I want to reassure Miss A and AESEL that 
I have carefully thought about everything they have said and provided me with. And Im 
satisfied that I have provided AESEL with sufficient time and opportunity to discuss what I 
said in my provisional decision. 
I do understand Miss A has been frustrated and concerned about the amount of interest she 
was charged after having made a significant payment to her account. But Im still not 
persuaded AESEL has done anything wrong in respect of the principles it applied in 
calculating interest in for her September 2022 statement. I understand the methodology of how AESEL has calculated interest for Miss As account. In 
essence, if she doesnt pay the full amount on the statement balance each month, she is 
charged interest on the previous months balance as well as on new purchases for the 
current month. And the T&Cs supplied by AESEL explain that. 
Miss As September statement shows that she had a previous balance of £1,952 carried 
over from her August statement. The payment due date for the August balance was 20 
September 2022. By that date Miss A had made payments of £1,800 to her account to clear 
the outstanding balance. But this didnt pay off the full amount of the balance from the 
previous month. So, I think this explains why she has incurred more interest than she was 
expecting.
However, I don't believe the explanation and calculation provided by AESEL in its letter to 
Miss A of 6 October 2022, is clear when considered against the relevant term it is relying on 
in the credit agreement. I say this because in the calculation, AESEL has referred to an 
average daily balance against which interest is calculated. That isn't referred to in the T&Cs, 
it just says that if the full amount owed in a month isn't paid in full, it will charge interest to 
the account in that month and the following month even if the full amount is then paid in the 
second month. There is no mention of an average daily balance. 
Also, there is no explanation given as to how the average daily balance figure has been 
calculated. The relevant term could be interpreted as meaning that interest on all of the 
previous months balance would be charged even if partial payment was made by the due 
date. But that doesnt appear to be the case from what AESEL has said. And unfortunately, 
despite several requests from the investigator to AESEL asking it to explain what it means 
when it refers to the average daily balance, it hasnt done so. 
Contrary to what AESEL thinks I said in my provisional decision, Im not suggesting that it 
change its terms and conditions. But I do think in a situation like this where AESEL has 
provided a calculation, it is important that it provides a clear explanation, with regards to how 
it has reached the figures in the assumptions it has used in respect of that calculation. 
Ive noted that from the internal guidance that it has provided, that AESEL considers that it is 
required to provide an explanation detailing interest rates and average daily balance. This 
suggests to me that AESEL accepts that on occasion, customers such as Miss A will need 
further information other than that provided in its terms and conditions, and information that 
might be available on its website. So, for the reasons I've explained I don't think in this 
particular case, AESEL has provided Miss A with clear information. And as a result, although 
I think its unlikely Miss A has lost out financially, I cant safely say that she hasnt.
Putting things right
I direct AESEL to: 
Provide Miss A with an explanation as what is meant by the average daily balance, 
and how it is calculated in respect of the calculation it provided to Miss A; and how 
that impacts on the calculation of interest. For completeness, it needs to set out in its 
explanation, how it has calculated the other assumptions it has used in the 
calculation of interest it has provided to Miss A.
If that explanation and calculation shows that it has calculated the interest incorrectly 
then it should pay Miss A any overpaid interest. If as I anticipate, the calculation 
shows the interest has been calculated correctly, then AESEL doesnt need to do 
anything else.My final decision
My decision is to uphold Miss As complaint in part. If Miss A accepts my decision, American 
Express Services Europe Limited, needs to do what Ive set out in the Putting things right 
section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman