DRN-4094584
The complaint
Miss C complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA irresponsibly provided her with a 
credit account so she struggled to afford the repayments out of her income.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss C successfully applied for a PayPal Credit account. She was given a 
£2,500 credit limit, which hasnt been increased. She believes that PayPal didnt carry out 
adequate affordability checks as she was only in receipt of incapacity benefit at the time. 
She also was on a debt management plan. She has since struggled to make the repayments 
and has said she had to borrow more to do so.
In her application she declared a monthly income of between £4,501 and £5,000. This 
included her partners income, her own income being only incapacity benefit of about £220 
every two weeks. She has shown us the statements from the joint account from the time of 
the application.
PayPal said that as part of every application for credit, it undertakes eligibility, 
creditworthiness and affordability checks before making a decision. It uses both information 
provided by the customer, and information it obtains from its primary Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA) (and/or a secondary Agency). In Miss Cs case it assessed the information 
given to it in her application- she declared that she was a student and a homeowner with a 
mortgage. It said that income is validated against CRA attributes where possible.
It assessed that she had no defaults reported on her credit file in the 2 years before her 
application. Finally, the debt to income ratio data and affordability measure provided by the 
CRA indicated that she was not overindebted at the time of the application. It assessed that 
she had disposable income of £3,000 a month. So it believed that she was able to afford the 
repayments. It had no record of her being on a debt management plan.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that PayPal verified 
Miss Cs income through its credit search. This was likely because both Miss Cs and her 
partners income was paid into a joint account. He said that when looking at expenditure, it 
would be taken into account that both Miss C and her partner were paying towards the living 
expenses. And that given her partners income, its likely they paid for most of the living 
expenses. He noted that PayPal had confirmed that over the four years of having the 
account, she only fell into arrears once in May 2022 and this was cleared the following 
month. He didnt think it was unreasonable that PayPal agreed to open the account.
Miss C disagreed. She said it cant be correct that someone could apply for credit in their 
sole name and expect a third party to be responsible for it. She didnt believe PayPal would 
have been able to check her partners income without requesting a bank statement or 
payslip, and it did neither. She also said that there were multiple occasions when she had 
gone over the limit and she had been charged numerous late payment fees. She said she 
was constantly at the maximum of her limit on the PayPal account..
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. I asked for the statements of 
the account, which PayPal has provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken that approach into account in considering Miss Cs complaint. 
So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether theyre lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did PayPal complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C would have been able to do so?
When Miss C applied for the credit account she tells us that she took it out in her name, her 
partner being unaware of the application. Nevertheless she declared a joint household 
income of over £4,000 which included her partners income. As her partner didnt know 
about the application, on the face of it the income declared was hers. 
PayPal has shown us the information extracted from Miss Cs application. She put her 
occupation as student and that she was a homeowner with a mortgage. She declared her 
income as £4501 to £5,000. Her net monthly expenses were put as £1,501 -£2,000. From 
this PayPal assessed her disposable income as £3,000 a month.
It said that Miss C was known to PayPal as she had a Wallet account which had a good 
behaviour score and spend. From the credit assessment it gave her a credit risk score of 
750 (the range being 300 to 950, the latter being low risk). It also said that she had no 
defaults in the previous 12 months and only one delinquent account in 24 months. 
So on the face of it Miss C appeared to be a good credit risk. But I have to bear in mind that 
to be eligible for the credit Miss C had to be employed and earning a certain annual income. 
PayPal has told us it was its business policy at the time to consider credit applications from 
students who declared they had an income. It did not automatically decline their applications. 
At that time, it also did not ask them to provide further information about their income 
(whether it was joint or sole).
I think its likely that Miss C declared her partners income on the application. This accords 
with the bank statements which show Miss Cs benefits combined with her partners salary 
as being within the range of income she selected on the application form. 
PayPal has said that Income is validated against CRA attributes where possible.  If an income verification check was carried out, it would have been done through the bank 
account which would give details of the income but not distinguish as to whose income it 
was. From the statements, it appears likely that Miss Cs declaration of the household 
income would have been verified. From the affordability point of view it would be reasonable 
to take into account that another party would be contributing to the household expenses.
So I think PayPal carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. I cant say that such 
checks should have led to it requesting bank statements. In my considering them, the 
account does dip into being overdrawn but only by up to £300 which is paid back within a 
couple of days. So any credit check would have been unlikely to show that there were 
problems with the current account. Ive noted that there were a substantial number of 
gambling transactions together with a regular payment to a debt advice charity. But again 
PayPal wouldnt have seen these, and it has told us it had no record of Miss C being on a 
debt management plan.
Turning to the way that Miss C managed her account, up until the time she complained to 
the Financial Ombudsman, she fell into arrears once, in May 2022, which was paid back the 
following month. She paid off the entire balance on the account in February 2023. She did 
exceed the credit limit on a number of occasions, though apart from the May 2022 payment, 
she always kept up with the minimum payments, or more. I cant see that she was charged 
any over the limit fees and she was able to use the account for purchases despite being over 
the limit, presumably because she kept up with those payments. I dont think that there was 
anything about the running of the account which might have caused PayPal to review its 
continuing to provide the account.
So, I think that PayPal made a fair lending decision in approving the credit account.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman