DRN-1225568
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage in May 1997. 
What happened
In May 1997 Mr and Mrs H purchased a PPI policy when they took out a mortgage. The PPI 
provided cover for Mr H only, in the event that he wasnt working due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £18.20 each month and wouldve provided a 
monthly benefit of £350 for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, but Mr and Mrs H disagreed with 
this. So, the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs case. And having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out more than 20 years ago  so its unsurprising 
neither party has been able to provide much detailed information about the sale. And in 
these situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs H have given their honest recollections of the sale but I have to 
accept that after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence 
whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr and Mrs H didnt have a 
choice in taking it out. So, with the very limited information I do have and from what I know 
about Santander PPI sales around this time, I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs H didnt have a 
choice about taking it.
Santander recommended the PPI. So it had to take adequate steps to make sure it was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H. I dont know what the adviser said to Mr and Mrs H about PPI or 
whether Santander did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. 
Because even if Santander didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for them 
for the following reasons:
 
Mr H met the PPIs requirements  he was eligible for it. And Ive set out the PPIs 
costs and main benefits above. Mrs H wasnt covered by the policy  she wasnt 
working at the time it was sold, so she wouldnt have been eligible for cover.
 Whilst Mr H received some occupational benefits; between six and twelve months 
sick pay, this does not automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. This is 
because if he were unable to work, the PPI was intended to remove the additional 
pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time.
 
Mr and Mrs H told us they had some savings  but the policy would also have 
allowed them to leave these savings for the purpose that theyd intended as well as 
other essential expenses at what is likely to be a difficult time financially if Mr H had 
lost his job.
 
The mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve paid the monthly 
mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any 
other cover they may have had. So I dont think any existing cover or savings that 
Mr and Mrs H may have had wouldve made the PPI unsuitable.
 
Nothing Mr and Mrs H told us suggested they needed to keep their costs down. And 
there wasnt anything in the PPI that would make it difficult for Mr H to claim. For 
example, he said he was employed and in good health when the PPI was sold. So, 
he wouldnt have been affected by things in it about unusual work or known health 
issues.
 
So, taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs H before they 
agreed to purchase it. I dont know they was told it would cost £18.50 each month until after 
the mortgage had started. For this reason Ive considered whether clearer information about 
the cost wouldve affected their decision to purchase the policy. But they had chosen to take 
out the policy, knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely they wouldve made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided. And as this was a regular 
monthly premium policy, if Mr and Mrs H decided that the cost was unaffordable, or that they 
no longer wanted the policy, they couldve cancelled it without penalty.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman