DRN-2349591
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd is unfairly chasing her for a debt.
What happened
Lantern bought an outstanding debt from company W in 2019. And it seeks repayment of the 
debt from Miss B.
Miss B says that its unfair of Lantern to contact her by post after she requested only email 
contact. Miss B says Lantern shouldnt be asking her to pay a debt she cant afford to repay. 
Miss B thinks Lantern is harassing her. Miss B says that if Lantern cant show her a deed of 
assignment of the debt, it should write the balance off and stop asking her to repay the debt.
The investigator didnt recommend that Miss Bs complaint be upheld. He said Lantern gave 
Miss B a notice of assignment and a signed credit agreement. The investigator was satisfied 
that Lantern owned the debt and that it was reasonable to ask Miss B for payment. The 
investigator didnt think Lantern needed to supply a copy of the deed of assignment.
Miss B disagrees with the investigators recommendation. She says she knows that Lantern 
buy debts in bulk but that it would be possible to provide a copy of the deed of assignment 
with any sensitive information removed. 
Miss B says she has felt intimated by the letters and threat of court action. She doesnt 
understand why Lantern said it didnt have her authority to email her. She says Lantern 
removed her telephone number from its file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, this service cannot declare a credit agreement to be 
unenforceable  that would be up to the courts to decide. But I can still consider whether 
Lantern has acted unreasonably when pursuing the debt from Miss B.
Im satisfied that Lantern owns the debt as it sent Miss B a notice of assignment when it took 
the account over from W. Lantern has also given Miss B a signed credit agreement which I 
believe shows that Miss B opened the account with W. The statement of account sets out 
how much remains to be paid.
Although Miss B wants to see the deed of assignment, I cant say that it is unreasonable of 
Lantern not to give her a copy. Lantern explains the deed contains sensitive information 
between it and the creditor. And as Ive said above, Im satisfied that the notice of 
assignment that Lantern sent to Miss B is enough to show that it owns the debt.
Miss B says she wanted Lantern to email her rather than send post, but I dont think this 
means that Lantern was harassing her when it wrote to her. And I dont consider that 
Lanterns contact was excessive.
I also cant see that Miss B told Lantern that she only wanted contact by email until her letter 
to it of 3 March 2020. So I cant find that Lantern was wrong to send letters in the post before 
this time. 
I appreciate that Miss B says she cant afford to repay the debt but Im satisfied that Lantern 
has given her ways to make contact and come up with an affordable repayment plan. When 
dealing with a customer in financial difficulties, I would expect Lantern to act positively and 
sympathetically. But that doesnt necessarily mean writing off a debt or stopping all 
communication. 
Overall, I dont consider that Lantern has dealt with things unfairly and I think its reasonable 
for it to ask Miss B to repay the debt she owes.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman