DRN-3727550
The complaint
Mr E says Nationwide Building Society has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
his credit card which paid for accommodation.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr E used his Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) credit card to 
pay for accommodation through a company I will call Firm A. Mr E says around May 2020 
Firm A cancelled the booking due to the Pandemic. Firm A gave him a credit note for this 
and said that he could use that note for other bookings or receive a refund after one year. Mr 
E wanted a cash refund there and then but didnt get one from Firm A at that point. So he 
took his complaint to NBS.
NBS looked into the matter and accepted that it didnt deal with Mr Es concerns as well as it 
would have liked, so it paid him £100. Mr E unsatisfied with NBS brought his complaint to 
this service.
In June 2021, once a year had passed, NBS raised a chargeback and Mr E was refunded in 
full. However Mr E who was still unhappy, so he asked for this service to consider whether 
NBS had treated him fairly.
Eventually our Investigator felt NBS didnt have to do anymore. And Mr E remains unhappy 
and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es NBS credit card is part of a card network. And this network has rules which includes 
giving NBS an avenue for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through 
the Chargeback process. The Chargeback process is not a right for consumers, nor does it 
provide any guarantee of success. But this service does consider raising a chargeback to be 
good practice if the card supplier considers the dispute has a reasonable prospect of 
success.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is about NBS and whether it did what it 
should have and whether it treated Mr E fairly in relation to its obligations. This decision isnt 
about the Firm A which isnt a party to this decision nor within this Services remit. I hope this 
distinction is clear.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success. This is the test here. 
It is clear that NBS raised the chargeback after a year had passed, in line with when Firm A 
said a cash refund would be due. And this was successful. So Mr E has received the money 
he paid, albeit over a year after he paid it.
Having considered what happened here I note that it was Firm A who put in place the one-
year period before the cash refund became available, not NBS. And once the year had 
elapsed NBS raised the chargeback and it was successful.
And having considered what we know here I think had NBS raised the chargeback in the 
year period in question, Firm A would have defended it based on the availability of the 
voucher and the commitment to refunding after one year.
I have considered whether NBS could have done more or paid Mr E the dispute sum earlier. 
But I note that NBS considered it could recover the funds through the chargeback process 
and it was successful in that. And it isnt responsible for the decision of Firm A to offer a 
credit note for a year prior to refunding Mr E. And Im not persuaded NBS had reason to 
approach this case differently as it is entitled to rely on what Firm A had said about the 
refund being available later. Furthermore Im not necessarily persuaded NBS itself could be 
directly responsible for the amount paid to Firm A for the supply of the accommodation.
Im aware that Mr E considers he should receive significantly more than £100 for what 
happened here. But I note that NBS points to asking Mr E for information and which it didnt 
get. And Im not persuaded Mr E would have got his refund through chargeback any quicker 
even if NBS had been faultless due to the requirement by Firm A to wait a year for the cash 
refund. And although NBS accepted its service hadnt been as it would expect, I must 
consider the impact of the delay in refund sitting largely with Firm A and not NBS due to this 
one-year credit note. So although his contact with NBS must have been frustrating I think the 
£100 paid was reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr E wishes to read. But I think NBS has 
already remedied what it did wrong and successfully recouped Mr Es payment. So I dont 
think it has anything further to do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman