DRN-3149955
The complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Finances Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) have charged him 
incorrectly for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr S acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £33,812.16. An advance payment of £983.69 was 
made, and Mr S then had to make 48 monthly repayments of £397.98. There was a final 
payment option of £13,725.43 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr S had the right to voluntary terminate the agreement at any 
time before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return 
of the car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set 
out this was £16,906.08.
In February 2020 Mr S exercised his right to terminate the agreement early.
As Mr S hadnt paid at least £16,906.08, he was required to pay BMWFS £1,595.11 for the 
voluntary termination. But, after Mr S handed the car back, BMWFS later charged him a 
further £2,172.36 as he had exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr S had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 miles and a total 
mileage allowance of 32,677. The car had done 10 miles prior to Mr S acquiring it. The 
agreement said that if Mr S exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge him 8.89 pence 
for every mile he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event he terminated the 
agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the car was on hire. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this amount and complained to BMWFS. He said he was told the 
excess mileage charge would be £409.38 when he called in February 2020 to discuss the 
voluntary termination. He wanted BMWFS to accept this as the amount so it could be 
settled. BMWFS wouldnt accept this. They said there wasnt any evidence to suggest this 
call had taken place or the approximate figure of £400 had been given. They told Mr S that 
his agreement explained what any charge for excess mileage would be, and that it would be 
pro-rated if the agreement was terminated early. BMWFS said the amount of £2,172.36 was 
outstanding and needed to be settled. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said the call had taken place with one of 
BMWFS agents and the amount hed been quoted is the amount that should be accepted. 
He was also unhappy that the collection of the car had taken longer than he would have 
liked. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence of 
the call taking place or the amount being quoted, and the paperwork supplied when Mr S 
asked to voluntary terminate explained how the excess mileage would be calculated, 
including the pence per mile applicable. He also said that Mr S had enquired about voluntary 
termination during the previous months and so would have been aware of the process and 
any additional charges. In relation to the time taken to collect the car, our investigator said 
he felt it was reasonable. The voluntary termination had been requested by Mr S in early 
February 2020 and the car had been collected on 27 February 2020. Our investigator felt 
this was a reasonable timeframe as it had been collected between two to four weeks. 
Mr S didnt agree. He is insistent that the amount he says he was quoted in early February 
2020 by BMWFS agent is the amount he should be required to pay. 
As Mr S didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement 
allowed Mr S use of the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£13,725.43. While Mr S was entitled to use the car, that was subject to certain conditions, 
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what would 
happen should Mr S not meet those requirements. 
Mr S exercised his right to voluntary terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more. 
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges are due. 
In this case, Mr S accepts that he was required to pay an additional £1,595.11 to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £2,172.36 that has 
been added on top of this figure. He has said that he called BMWFS in late January or early 
February 2020 to discuss the voluntary termination of the agreement, and at that time he 
was quoted £409.38 as an excess mileage charge. Mr S has said that it was this information 
that led him to voluntary terminate the agreement, rather than pursue any other options he 
might have had available to him. 
Mr S has maintained all along that he had a telephone conversation with one of BMWFS 
agents and an excess mileage figure of £409.38 was confirmed to him. But neither side has 
been able to provide evidence that this call took place, or that this amount was quoted. So, 
whilst its possible Mr S did speak to someone and gather this information, I dont think its 
the most persuasive argument here. 
Mr S agreement explains what will happen if it is voluntary terminated and the mileage 
allowance has been exceeded. And the paperwork sent to Mr S once hed decided to 
proceed with the voluntary termination also explained the applicable cost of pence per mile if 
the allowed mileage limit was exceeded at the point of termination. When Mr S terminated 
the agreement, the car had covered 49,112 miles, and the pro-rata allowance for the period 
hed had the car was 24,666 miles. Based on this information, and the cost per mile 
explained in the agreement and the voluntary termination paperwork, Im satisfied the 
amount Mr S has been asked to pay by BMWFS is fair. 
Mr S has said to our investigator that he may not have read all of the corresponding 
paperwork he received when he proceeded with the voluntary termination, and he was 
satisfied that he would only be asked to pay an additional £400 approximately. I cant hold 
BMWFS responsible for Mr S not reading what had been sent to him and asking any 
questions he had about what it said. The voluntary termination paperwork was sent to Mr S after he had spoken to another of BMWFS agents and it confirmed the charges that would 
apply for any excess mileage. Its only when the voluntary termination paperwork is signed 
and returned by Mr S that it takes effect, so he had the opportunity prior to returning it to 
read it and question what the applicable charges might be.
Regarding the time taken for BMWFS to arrange collection of the car, I would expect the car 
to be collected within a reasonable period and having considered the time BMWFS took here 
I dont think it was unreasonable. So, I dont think BMWFS have caused any unnecessary 
delay here. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman