DRN-2025129
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (Tesco) gave her the incorrect early 
settlement figure for her loan account. 
What happened
Mrs Z had a loan account with Tesco and rang them for an early settlement figure as she 
was consolidating her debts. Mrs Z says some time after she had agreed a settlement figure 
with Tescos, she received a notification from them regarding a payment to the loan. 
In a phone call to Tesco they explained that a payment was missed and she still owed 
£125.40 and the account would not be closed until this was settled. Mrs Z says she had told 
them, when she originally obtained the early settlement amount, she had cancelled her last 
months direct debit and Tesco should have known that. Mrs Z wants Tesco to honour the 
original settlement amount for the loan account. 
Tesco says in the telephone conversation with Mrs Z they gave her an early settlement 
figure on the basis the direct debit due that day was being paid, as Mrs Z hadnt informed 
them, she had already cancelled it. Tesco have said Mrs Z should now pay what is owed 
and have granted her extra time to arrange this to avoid any missed payments being 
registered against her credit file. 
Mrs Z wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says that Tesco werent made aware she had cancelled the direct debit due that 
day which formed part of the early settlement figure they provided to Mrs Z. 
Mrs Z wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether Tesco gave Mrs Z misleading 
information about the early settlement figure for her loan account with them and if they 
should have been aware the direct debit for the current loan payment had already been 
cancelled by Mrs Z with her bank.
I can understand it would be upsetting and frustrating for Mrs Z when she believed she had 
settled her loan account with Tesco, only to find she still owed monies to them. 
What happened here is Mrs Z rang Tesco for an early settlement figure for her loan account 
as she was consolidating various borrowings. Mrs Z she made clear during the phone call, 
she had cancelled her direct debit for the loan repayment and Tesco should have known this 
when providing her with the early settlement figure for her loan account.
I have listened to two telephone calls between Mrs Z and Tescos one on the 2 January 
2020 and the other on 15 January 2020. Its during the call on 2 January where the early 
settlement figure is requested by Mrs Z and interestingly fell on the same day the direct debit 
was due to be taken for the loan payment. While Mrs Z may not agree, having listened to the 
call on 2 January 2020, I am satisfied theres no mention by her she had cancelled, weeks 
earlier with her bank, the direct debit for the loan repayment due on that day, as she claims. 
It follows, on balance, I cant see that Tesco could have known the direct debit showing as 
due that day had already been cancelled by Mrs Z and would be returned cancelled by her 
bank. In view of this, I am satisfied the early settlement figure Tesco gave Mrs Z was on the 
basis the loan repayment for January had been paid.
The second phone call centres on Tesco explaining what happened with the direct debit Mrs 
Z cancelled and how this affected the loan account settlement figure they had previously 
given her. I am satisfied this was clearly explained to Mrs Z. 
What is clear here and important to say, is Mrs Z wasnt financially disadvantaged as she 
has simply paid what was due under the loan agreement. I cant see Tesco were wrong to 
include the monthly loan repayment, due on the day she rang, in the early settlement figure 
they gave her. Afterall, this would have been a true account of the outstanding debt owed by 
Mrs Z.
While Mrs Z will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman