DRN-3351689
The complaint
Mr R is a sole trader. He complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly turned down 
his business interruption insurance claim.
What happened
Mr R held a business protection insurance policy with UKI. He claimed on the business 
interruption section of the policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. 
UKI turned down Mr Rs claim. It said the policy primarily covered business interruption due 
to damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt caused damage. It said the extension for public 
emergency didnt provide cover as it excludes losses caused by infectious or contagious 
diseases and while the policy covered a specified list of diseases, the list didnt include 
Covid-19. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr R brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim. 
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision. In particular he thought it was unfair for UKI to 
limit the diseases covered by the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Rs business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if UKI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Rs claim. While Ive considered Mr Rs policy in its entirety Im only going 
to comment on the sections I find most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy and some extensions provide cover as a 
result of damage to property. The policy defines damage as, accidental loss, destruction or 
damage. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage which resulted in 
Mr Rs business being interrupted. Therefore, these parts of the policy dont cover his claim. 
Disease
This extension provides cover for loss from business interruption as a result the occurrence 
of a specified disease occurring at Mr Rs premises or within a 10 mile radius. Covid-19 isnt 
included in the list of the diseases.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example, policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Rs policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
diseases and therefore this doesnt provide cover for Mr Rs claim.
Public emergency
This extension covers:
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of 
the Premises, which commencing during the Period of Insurance, prevents or 
hinders the use of or access to the Premises, excluding
a any loss during the first four hours;
b cover provided by Extension L Bomb Scares;
c labour disputes;
d any loss occurring in Northern Ireland; or
e infectious or contagious disease.
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority Business Interruption 
Insurance test case is relevant to Mr Rs complaint, because the High Court considered a 
similar term to that within Mr Rs policy and this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the 
Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the High Court. I think Mr Rs 
premises closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website 
describes as an infectious disease. Therefore, this doesnt provide cover for his claim. 
Closure
This extension covers business interruption where premises have been closed by a Public 
Authority due to defective drains or other sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests. While      
Mr Rs premises might have been closed, this wasnt due to defective drains or other 
sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests. So, this doesnt cover his claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I cant fairly require UKI to pay his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman