DRN-4048919
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as R, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, didnt 
place money on a treasury deposit account when it was asked to. R says that as a result, it 
lost out on interest.
 
Mr P who is a director of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
On 14 October 2022, R contacted NatWest to place a substantial sum of money on treasury 
deposit for a four-month fixed term. The interest rate quoted was 2.6%. The monies werent 
however, placed on deposit until 25 October 2022. And the interest rate applied was 2.5%. 
NatWest accepted that it had caused delays in placing the monies on deposit. And it offered 
to compensate R for the loss of interest caused as a result of its delays. It also agreed to 
compensate R for the interest lost as a result of the monies being transferred prior from its 
35-day notice account, into its business reserve account which had a lower rate of interest. It 
calculated the loss of interest to be a total of £1,146.67. NatWest also offered £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to R.
Mr P raised his concerns on behalf of R as he didnt think the way NatWest had calculated 
compensation was correct. His concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They 
explained why they thought the compensation offered by NatWest was fair, as it put R back 
into the position it would have been in, had the error not happened. 
Mr P didnt agree. And there were further exchanges of correspondence between Mr P and 
the investigator. Mr P explained why he didnt think NatWests offer fully compensated R, 
and the investigator explained why they thought it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me from everything Ive seen that the placing of Rs monies onto a four-month 
fixed term treasury deposit account was delayed. And NatWest has accepted responsibility 
for that delay as well as for the monies being incorrectly moved from the 35-day notice 
account. So, the key issue I need to consider is whether what NatWest has offered to put 
things right, is fair and reasonable. 
Any compensation should, as far as is practicably possible, put R back in the position it 
would have been in if the mistakes hadnt been made. So, Ive considered the offer NatWest 
has made and its explanation of how that has been calculated. 
Mr P argues that the monies would have been invested for the 11-day period at 2.6%. So, he 
thinks the way NatWest has calculated compensation is incorrect and that more 
compensation is due. But I dont agree that the way NatWest has calculated Rs loss of 
interest is unreasonable or unfair.
I say that because NatWest has provided figures for the difference in interest between the 
monies being held initially in the 35-day notice account and the business reserve account for 
11 days before it was placed onto the four-month fixed term treasury deposit account. The 
difference was 0.3% and amounted to £356.98. So, it has offered compensation for the 
period of time the monies werent in the business reserve account, before they were placed 
on the treasury deposit account on 25 October 2022. 
It has then provided the figures for the interest accrued for the monies placed on the treasury 
deposit four-month fixed term at the rate of 2.5% from 25 October 2022. And it has 
compared that with what the monies placed on the treasury deposit would have accrued by 
way of interest, if it had been invested from 14 October 2022 using a fixed rate of 2.6% for a 
four-month fixed term. 
That doesnt seem to me be an unreasonable way for NatWest to have calculated Rs loss of 
interest and the compensation due to it. I say that because the methodology it has used 
compares the actual position R found itself in as a result of the delays, with the interest that 
would have accrued if the monies hadnt been moved from the 35-day notice account and 
had been placed on the higher treasury deposit rate on the 14 October 2022. And that is 
what I would expect NatWest to do in the circumstances. 
I can understand that the operation of R would have been impacted to some extent as a 
result of Mr P having to resolve this issue with NatWest on Rs behalf. And I think the 
inconvenience offer of £150 NatWest has made is sufficient to compensate R for the impact 
of that inconvenience. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £1,146.67 in respect of lost 
interest and £150 in respect of inconvenience caused to R to settle the complaint, and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank 
Plc should, only if it hasnt already done so, pay £1,296.67 if Mr P accepts my accept 
decision on behalf of R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman