DRN-1606410
The complaint
Ms W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) gave her incorrect information 
regarding how much money she could transfer by telephone and internet banking. Shes 
also unhappy she couldnt set up future dated payment transfers from her account or make a 
CHAPS payment remotely. 
Ms W is represented by her advisor in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
On11 October 2019 a large amount of money credited Ms Ws Halifax current account. The 
funds were the proceeds of a property sale. And it was Ms Ws intention to transfer the 
money to an account she held elsewhere.
Ms W contact Halifax to request its assistance in making the transfer. But it said the full 
amount couldnt be transferred in one transaction due to restrictions in the transfer limits. 
Halifax told Ms W the maximum she could transfer at once was £15000 via telephone 
banking and £10000 using online banking.
As Ms W wanted to transfer just over £137500 she asked Halifax to make a CHAPS transfer 
on her behalf. But she was informed this couldnt be done over the telephone as this would 
need to be arranged in branch. Ms W wasnt able to do this because her local branch was a 
significant distance away. So, she asked Halifax to transfer £15000 via telephone banking. 
Halifax attempted to make the transfer but it told Ms W the transfer hadnt been successful 
and it recommended she contact its international team for further assistance. Ms W said she 
wasnt comfortable do this. So she tried to make an online transfer herself. On logging into 
her online banking Ms W was able to transfer £25000 in three separate transactions. So, she 
assumed that was the transfer limit, which was higher than Halifax had told her.
On 12 October 2019 Ms W was able to transfer a further £25000 as one transaction. But the 
following day, when she tried to make another transfer, she received a message advising 
that shed reached her daily transfer limit. Ms W hadnt made any transfers that day and her 
attempt to set up future transfers was unsuccessful. 
Ms W was unhappy with what had happened. She felt that Halifax should have advised her 
properly about its transfer limits and she thought it was unfair that a CHAPS transaction 
couldnt be processed remotely. She thought it was unreasonable for Halifax to tell her shed 
have to travel to her local branch in order to effect a CHAPS transfer. Overall, Ms W said 
she felt shed received poor service. So she complained on 13 October 2019.
The following day Halifax telephoned Ms W to discuss her concerns. During this call, which 
lasted just over 45 minutes, Halifax accepted it had given her incorrect information about its 
transfer limits for both online and telephone banking. It agreed this constituted poor service 
and it explained that it had provided feedback to the individual that had provided incorrect 
advice. Halifax also confirmed the limits for online and telephone banking transfers and stated it 
wasnt able to offer CHAPS payments over the telephone. However, it denied it had told Ms 
W shed have to travel to her local branch in order to initiate a CHAPS transfer.
Halifax told Ms W it proposed to resolve her complaint by paying her an overall sum of £50 
compensation. It thought that reflected the distress and inconvenience she had experienced. 
But Ms W declined that offer and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Ms W and Halifax. But they didnt 
uphold this complaint. Overall, they didnt think Halifax had acted unreasonably in offering to 
put matters right. And they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. Ms W disagreed and 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms W experienced while trying to transfer the proceeds 
of her property sale. I can appreciate that this caused her distress and inconvenience. And I 
understand she feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint.
I can see Ms W has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions. I want to assure her that Ive read everything she has sent us. I hope she will 
understand if I dont address every comment shes made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider to be key to this complaint; namely whether Halifax acted 
fairly and reasonably here.
There are five parts to Ms Ws complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
each issue separately. 
Transfer limits
Ms W has told our service that other banks offer higher transfer limits. But, while I 
understand why she may be keen for me to know about how other banks deal with online or 
telephone transfers, this complaint is against Halifax. So, I can only consider what it does.
I realise Ms W may be unhappy about the transfer limits Halifax has in place for telephone 
and internet banking. Its clear that these restrictions prevented her from transferring her 
funds in a single transaction from her Halifax account to an account she held elsewhere. 
However, the limits are in place for security reasons. And Halifax is entitled to make a 
commercial decision about the transfer limits it wants to adopt, which isnt something our 
service would generally interfere with. 
CHAPS payment
Ms W is unhappy she wasnt able to make a CHAPS payment remotely. However, Halifax 
informed her that, due to security reasons, CHAPS transfers can only be initiated by the 
customer in branch. While I recognise this caused significant inconvenience to Ms W this is 
Halifaxs policy. And, as explained above, its entitled to exercise its own commercial 
judgment about how it processes CHAPS payments, which our service cant interfere with.
Future dated payment facilityI understand that Ms W wasnt able to set up a future dated payment arrangement online in 
order to avoid her logging in to make a transfer each day. Halifax explained that, while it 
offers this facility to its customers, it isnt permitted where the maximum amount has already 
been transferred out of the account. 
Here, Ms W had transferred the maximum amount she was permitted to transfer online. So a 
future dated payment couldnt be set up on the same day as this would mean she was giving 
her authority for more than £25000 to debit her account. This would exceed the transfer 
limits Halifax has in place. And this explains why a future payment arrangement couldnt be 
implemented by Ms W here. 
Halifax told our service it adopts this process as a security measure in order to mitigate risk. 
As explained above, this is a business decision Halifax is entitled to exercise and its not 
something our service would interfere with.
Being given incorrect information about Halifaxs transfer limits
Halifax doesnt dispute that it informed Ms W incorrectly about its transfer limits for both 
telephone and internet banking. I can see the correct information was provided to Ms W 
when Halifax discussed her complaint and in the final response letter it subsequently sent.
Ms W told our service Halifax hasnt explained why she was given the wrong information 
about its transfer limits. But I think Halifax gave Ms W a fair explanation of what happened, 
in sufficient detail, in its final response letter. I realise that this didnt go into the level of detail 
Ms W wanted, or expected. But impartially, I think Halifax provided as much detail as was 
possible and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask it to expand on what its already written.
Halifax accepts providing incorrect information constituted poor service and its already 
offered to pay £50 to reflect that fact. Its clear Ms W doesnt think the sum offered 
adequately reflects her inconvenience and experience. So Ive considered whether the 
remedy Halifax offered is fair and reasonable. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation to 
award, our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
In this case the only way for Ms W to transfer the proceeds of her house sale to the account 
she holds elsewhere were to either undertake a telephone or internet transfer, which was 
restricted to £10000 and £25000 per day respectively, or to make a CHAPS payment for 
which shed have to attend her local branch.
I understand Ms Ws local branch was a significant distance away. So, her only viable option 
was to effect the transfer by internet or telephone banking. As I mentioned previously, this 
had to be done in stages due to the transfer restrictions Halifax has in place. And, while 
Halifax didnt inform Ms W what the transfer limits were, she was able to ascertain that 
herself quickly and made her first transfer of £25000 on 11 October 2019. As this was the 
day she wanted Halifax to assist her with her transfer Im satisfied there was no delay in Ms 
W transferring the funds she was able to transfer. It follows that Im satisfied that she hasnt 
lost out financially as a result of what happened.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, how much 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. Having thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Ms W, Im satisfied that the £50 
trouble and upset award already offered by Halifax is a reasonable amount. Its in line with 
our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told Halifax to pay had no 
compensation been offered. 
Ive thought about whether Ms W incurred any out of pocket expenses such as telephone 
costs in speaking to Halifax about her complaint. However, I understand Halifax telephoned 
her to discuss her concerns. So, I havent seen any evidence that shows Ms W incurred 
expenses here.
While Ms W may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation Halifax has already 
offered fairly recognises the impact its error had in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. I understand Ms W rejected Halifaxs offer so this compensation hasnt yet been 
paid. Halifax should therefore pay Ms W £50 to resolve this complaint.
Complaint handling
Ill turn now to Ms Ws concerns about the way in which Halifax dealt with her complaint. I 
can shes unhappy with the length of time she spent discussing her concerns with Halifax 
over the telephone and the way in which the call was handled.   
I should explain that, strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial 
businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation 
that governs our service. So, even if I did think Halifax hadnt handled Ms Ws complaint 
well, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. I cant act 
outside the law. So I wont comment any further on this issue.
I understand Ms W will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Halifax informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Ms W any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) 
should pay the £50 that it offered to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman