DRN-1699049
The complaint
Ms B complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc cancelled her motor insurance policy unfairly.
Ms Bs father brought the complaint on her behalf, but to make things clearer Ill treat it as 
having been brought by Ms B.
What happened
AXA cancelled Ms Bs policy because they suspected fraudulent activity. They said theyd 
sent her reminders and warnings about this by phone, text and letter. But Ms B said she had 
been too busy at work to read them. She felt that the tone of AXAs communication was 
threatening, and they hadnt given her long enough to resolve the situation, when other 
insurers gave longer. She was unhappy that having a policy cancellation on her insurance 
record affected the cost of her future insurance. She felt that that AXAs actions were 
disproportionate to the mistake and that the situation had caused her and her father expense 
and stress. She also felt that AXA took too long to deal with her complaint. 
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that it 
wasnt unfair for AXA to cancel the policy and that theyd been reasonable in making her 
aware of their intentions. He didnt comment on the claimed delay in AXA dealing with Ms 
Bs complaint but explained that was outside this services jurisdiction. Ms B remained 
dissatisfied and so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, its not part of our jurisdiction to deal with complaints about 
how a business handled a consumers complaint, and so I cant comment on that, but only 
on the main issue. 
 
Ms B took out the policy on 4 March 2019 through an online insurance comparison website. 
As her father was paying for the policy, she provided his credit card details and his email 
address. Unfortunately she made a mistake with the email address. 
 
As a result of that, AXA received information from a third-party that the payment hadnt been 
authorised. This made AXA suspect that there had been fraudulent activity. They tried to 
contact Ms B about this, as I can see from their records. Ive listened to a recording of the 
voicemail message they left for Ms B when they phoned her on 6 March, and its clear that 
they asked her to get in touch. On that date AXA also sent her a letter and an email. These 
said that there was an issue with payment for her policy, and asked her to contact them to 
resolve it, failing which they would cancel her policy within seven days. When she didnt 
reply within the seven days, they cancelled her policy on 13 March. 
When Ms B phoned them the next day, they wouldnt reinstate the policy. They refunded the 
premium to her fathers card less the cost of the time theyd insured her. 
Ive looked at the policy and it says on page 28 that if AXA suspect fraudulent activity has 
taken place on a policy either by the policyholder or someone on their behalf, they may 
cancel by giving seven days notice.
I think this is clear in the policy and so AXA are entitled to rely on it. Ms B felt that AXA didnt 
give her long enough before cancelling the policy, and that other insurers give longer. But I 
dont find AXAs actions unreasonable. Businesses are expected to act quickly where they 
have reason to suspect fraud, and I dont think that its relevant if other businesses do things 
differently. I also think that AXA did take reasonable steps to contact Ms B, to make her 
aware that there was a problem and that there was a risk theyd cancel her policy if she 
didnt contact them within their timescales. Their communications were to make Ms B think it 
was important she should contact them, but I dont think that their tone was threatening. She 
has explained that she was busy with work at that time, but I still think that their 
communications made the importance of the issue clear.
Ms B was also unhappy that after AXA cancelled, they wouldnt reinstate the policy, or give 
her details of the person who triggered the suggestion of fraudulent activity.  AXA said they 
couldnt give that, for data protection reasons, and I dont think that was unfair of them, 
particularly when fraud was potentially involved. And I think in the circumstances it wasnt 
unreasonable for them to not reinstate. It was a commercial decision for AXA, and they 
werent obliged to do that. 
Ms B says that there wasnt any problem with payment, as AXA successfully took the 
premium payment from her fathers credit card, and so it was unfair of AXA to have 
cancelled the policy when it was paid for. However I think that the fact of the third-party 
contact triggering AXAs suspicions of fraud was enough for them to reasonably suspect that 
there could be a problem relating to that payment. So I dont think that AXAs actions were 
unreasonable. 
Its certainly very unfortunate that this chain of events arose from a simple mistake on Ms Bs 
part. I can see that the situation has caused Ms B and her father expense and 
inconvenience. However I must look at whether AXA have done anything wrong in cancelling 
her policy. In this case, I dont think that they have. The mistake was not AXAs mistake. On 
the information they had, it wasnt unreasonable for them to suspect fraudulent activity 
regarding the policy. They made reasonable attempts to contact Ms B about it before they 
cancelled, and so they acted in line with their policy terms. This means that I dont require 
them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
