DRN-3286320
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy TSB Bank Plc (TSB) increased the interest rate on his overdraft to 39.9%.
Background
When it reviewed Mr S complaint, TSB didnt uphold it. It said its terms and conditions 
permitted it to change the rate it applied on overdrafts and as it notified Mr S in advance of 
the changes happening, it was satisfied that Mr S wasnt treated unfairly. Mr S remained 
dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think TSB had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr S is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair increase in TSBs overdraft 
interest rate and Ive seen hes used terms such as usury to describe the new rate, Im afraid 
that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at TSBs charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it implemented these changes unfairly. Mr S says 
that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as he wasnt notified of them in 
advance and he wasnt offered any alternatives. 
However, Ive seen a list of the communications Mr S was sent by TSB during the course of 
2020. And I can see that a notice of variation in relation to Mr S current account appears to 
have been sent to the email address TSB had for Mr S. I accept its possible that this email 
might have got lost amongst others Mr S might have received. But Im satisfied that TSB 
took reasonable steps to notify Mr S of the interest rate changes ahead of them happening. 
And thats what it needed to do to bring this matter to Mr S attention. 
So while Mr S may have been happier with the lower interest rate it is, ultimately, up to TSB 
how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats a business decision for it to 
make. And it looks like it communicated the changes in advance of them happening. Equally, 
the changes were further delayed by temporary relief measures it applied as a result of the 
pandemic. 
I understand Mr S strength of feeling on this matter and why he might be unhappy at having 
to pay a higher interest rate. I also know that Mr S is unhappy TSB didnt proactively offer 
alternative products to repay his overdraft. I accept TSB couldnt have made a proactive 
application for a loan, or any other type of borrowing, on Mr S behalf without getting his 
agreement first. But I do agree that it would have been helpful for TSB (and in line with its 
duty to mitigate the effects of the pricing structure changes for those who at first glance 
might have struggled to have paid the charges) to have reminded a customer who was as 
overdrawn as Mr S that it offered other products which may have been more suitable for his 
level of borrowing. 
That said, Im mindful here that Mr S has said that he was a bank manager for a number of 
years. And, in these circumstances, I cant reasonably say that Mr S needed to be told that 
TSB offered loans to its customers and that he could apply for one, for him to know that 
might have been an alternative option for him if he didnt want to accept the changes to the 
overdraft pricing structure. Mr S might not have known whether hed be approved for a loan 
but TSB wont have known this unless and until an application was made either. So crucially 
I dont think that TSB withheld information about alternatives to Mr S overdraft which he 
wouldnt have known about. 
Equally, Mr S was able to exit his overdraft - he did so in September 2020 as a result of 
obtaining a loan. And hes able to stop using his facility and have it removed, if he doesnt 
want to accept the new pricing structure. So I dont think Mr S circumstances mean that hes 
unfairly locked into accepting the changes going forward. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that TSB implemented these 
overdraft changes in a way that treated Mr S unfairly. I think its more likely than not TSB 
informed Mr S about the changes to the pricing structure in January 2020 and I dont think 
any possible failure to notify Mr S about alternative products led to Mr S unfairly believing he 
had no alternative options, or unfairly locked him into accepting changes he didnt want to 
accept on an ongoing basis. So, in these circumstances, it follows that Im not upholding    
Mr S complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman