DRN-1266942
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in
March 1992. Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, so 
the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman - to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, Santander shouldve taken reasonable steps to make 
it clear the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr and Mrs As agreement to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were not made aware the policy was optional  they thought they had 
to have it if they wanted the mortgage. They say the cover wasnt properly explained to 
them.
Santander isnt able to provide all the paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this
isnt unusual for a sale that took place from so long ago, and businesses arent required to
keep records indefinitely. So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs As comments alongside what we 
know in general about how Santander sold MPPI at the time to decide whats more likely to 
have happened. And based on what I know about how Santander sold MPPI I wouldve 
expected there to have been conversations with the advisor about the MPPI and paperwork 
wouldve had to be completed to confirm the level of cover and to set up the policy. And in 
Mr and Mrs As case it was decided the policy would cover Mr A only. 
Following these discussions, it seems Mr and Mrs A wouldve been sent a policy document. 
Santander has provided a sample copy of this document which would be similar, if not the 
same as the one Mr and Mrs A wouldve been given. This explains what the PPI covers and 
includes a separate blank application form which is likely to have been the same as the one 
Mr and Mrs A wouldve completed. Mr and Mrs A were likely to have been sent or given 
paperwork about the cover and the payments for the MPPI wouldve appeared separately on 
their statements. So I wouldve expected them to query this if they had any concerns.
So taking everything in to account, Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented
as optional, although I can understand why Mr and Mrs A may not remember this as it was 
so long ago.
Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs A. The policy was set up to cover Mr A 
only. This means it had to ensure the policy met Mr As individual needs. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think the policy was right for him. I say this because:
Mr A was eligible for MPPI.
It doesnt seem he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI
cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
Mr A wouldve received some employer benefits at the time. The MPPI wouldve paid 
out for 12 months if Mr A lost his job and for up to 36 months if he was off work sick. 
Mr and Mrs A were taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which 
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that the repayments 
wouldve been made if Mr A was unable to work wouldve been important to them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs A. And as the 
policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled the 
policy if it no longer met Mr As needs.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs A about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went
wrong. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have said, including their comments about the 
life insurance they were also sold. But as the adjudicator explained, this would need to be 
considered by Santander before we can review this part of their complaint.  So these points 
dont change my decision  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman