DRN-1929423
The complaint
Ms W and Mr W arent happy about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled their home insurance claim after there was an escape of water.
What happened
In August 2018 after returning from a holiday, Ms W and Mr W found there had been an 
escape of water in the bathroom of their home. They said this had caused damage to the 
bathroom floor and the kitchen ceiling below.
Ms W and Mr W said their home was a bespoke, architect designed, self-built, timber framed 
eco-house. And the undue delay caused by the way RSA had handled their claim had 
caused concern about damp penetrating further into the timber frame. They also said there 
were several examples of poor workmanship, including the damage to a pipe caused by a 
nail being put through it. Ms W and Mr W said the settlement offer was below the amount 
needed for the work to be completed to an acceptable standard. They complained to RSA.
RSA accepted that there had been some unnecessary delay and that a pipe had been 
damaged that had caused further water damage. They offered Ms W and Mr W £150 to 
compensate them for this. And although their home wasnt considered to be uninhabitable, 
they agreed to move Ms W and Mr W into alternative accommodation.
Ms W and Mr W didnt accept the offer of compensation as they didnt think it covered the 
extent of the impact the delays were having on them. They referred their complaint to us.
RSA said theyd issued a final response to Ms W and Mr Ws complaint. But further issues 
had been raised with them which they were looking into. As a result of which they removed 
the existing contractors and appointed a building consultant. And increased their offer of 
compensation to £1000.
Ms W and Mr W didnt think all of their complaint points had been addressed. They said RSA 
sent an unqualified, unequipped individual to survey the damage to the floor joists. And as 
RSA didnt pay for a qualified surveyor, theyd failed to meet the standards of their policy. 
And they had to get another survey done as their new floor couldnt be laid until reassurance 
from a qualified surveyor was given.
They said theyd not been able to use their home as they wanted as they were without a 
kitchen ceiling. This had affected their Christmas celebrations, and meant they hadnt been 
able to house swap for holidays as they had done previously because of the state their home 
was in. They also said their son hadnt been able to attend school and had suffered from the 
disruption. 
Our investigator said RSA should compensate Ms W and Mr W £1,500 for the trouble and 
upset that had been caused. But didnt agree the survey Ms W and Mr W had done should 
be paid for by RSA as they hadnt agreed to the survey being done. And the results didnt 
alter the survey theyd carried out. He also didnt agree that Ms W and Mr W should be 
reimbursed for loss caused by not being able to carry out holiday swaps as this wasnt 
covered by their home insurance policy. But said Ms W and Mr W should arrange for a 
qualified plumbers report about the damaged pipe be done and the cost covered by RSA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
I can understand Ms W and Mr Ws frustration as what appeared to be a leak of water that 
could be easily repaired has taken a considerable amount of time to resolve. It has been 
accepted by RSA that there had been unnecessary delay and poor workmanship.  And a 
underfloor heating pipe had been damaged, with RSA asking for a qualified plumbers report 
before they would consider whether the pipe should be repaired or replaced. I understand 
the report has been sent and seen by RSA. And that agreement has been reached.
So, in making my decision I will be considering the remaining complaint points raised by Ms 
W and Mr W that they still dispute. In reaching my decision I need to determine whether RSA 
had adhered to their terms and conditions. And if they have acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Ms W and Mr W.
Survey fee
Ms W and Mr W were unhappy about the survey carried out on behalf of RSA on their floor 
joists. And because they didnt feel this had been done correctly, they arranged for their own 
survey to be done at a cost of £360 and want RSA to reimburse their costs. Ive checked the 
terms and conditions of the policy, it states:
Well also pay fees and related costs that we agree to, as long as the damage is covered 
under your policy.
I can see from RSAs records they didnt agree to a further survey being done. But Ms W 
and Mr W werent satisfied that the damage had been adequately inspected, as the person 
sent by RSA didnt appear to them to be suitably qualified. And had attended the inspection 
without basic equipment, namely a spirit level. They questioned how robust the inspection 
could be without this basic check. But Ms W and Mr W have confirmed both reports came to 
the same findings. So, even though Ms W and Mr W maynt have been reassured by the 
inspection that was carried out, the findings were the same in both reports. And as RSA 
hadnt agreed to the additional survey, I cant say RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
agreeing to pay for it. And it was Ms W and Mr W choice to pay for the survey to be done 
without the agreement of RSA.
House swaps
Ms W and Mr W have said that their holidays have been impacted as theyve been unable to 
carry out any house exchange holiday swaps as their home wasnt in an acceptable state. 
And have asked that the financial impact this has had should be covered by RSA.
Ms W and Mr W say they usually  house exchange for five weeks of the year and have lost 
out on £7,000 by not being able to do this. Instead theyd had the added expense of booking 
holiday accommodation. I can see that Ms W and Mr W have shown that in 2017 they did 
swap their home for several weeks. But I havent seen any evidence of any bookings after 
2017 and prior to August 2018 (when the escape of water happened),having been made. Nor have I seen any house swap bookings having to be cancelled after August 2018 when 
Ms W and Mr W found the escape of water. Neither have they shown that theyd booked or 
had to cancel any planned house swaps that they had made.
The escape of water was found in August 2018, after Ms W and Mr W said theyd returned 
from a holiday, but I havent seen any evidence that this was also a house swap holiday. So, 
I havent been persuaded that Ms W and Mr W have suffered a financial loss as a result of 
the actions of RSA.
So, RSA has accepted that they had caused unnecessary delay in Ms W and Mr Ws home 
insurance claim which has caused trouble and upset. And I agree with our investigator that 
RSA should pay Ms W and Mr W £1500 for this. My understanding is that RSA has already 
paid Ms W and Mr W £1150, which leaves £350 remaining to be paid.
 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Ms W and Mr 
W £1,500 in total for trouble and upset.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman