DRN-1592793
 
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs A and Mr A applied for a joint mortgage in 2004. At the same time they were sold a 
MPPI policy. Initially, the policy covered both Mrs A and Mr A for accident, sickness and 
unemployment  it was free of charge for the first 12 months.
The policy was amended several months later, within the initial free period, to provide cover 
for Mr M only and was limited to unemployment cover. The mortgage and policy ended 
2006.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint, but they didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold. Mrs A and Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the case has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to PPI 
complaints on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs A and Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs A and Mr As complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment but I hope my explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mrs A and Mr A say MPPI was not offered to them and they did not give their consent to 
have it. The mortgage was arranged initially through a phone call. Mrs A and Mr A say the 
MPPI policy wasnt discussed but think the advisor ticked for them to have it anyway without 
their consent. But their recollection of how this happened is not detailed. This is 
understandable due to the amount of years that have passed. 
I have looked at the sales documentation to help me understand what more likely happened 
at the time. I have looked through the mortgage offer letter that Mrs A and Mr A would have 
seen after the phone call. MPPI is listed in a separate heading under optional insurance 
and underneath this are details of their policy. So, I think, after seeing this, its more likely 
that a discussion took place about protecting Mrs A and Mr As mortgage and they chose to 
take out PPI. Mrs A and Mr A also amended their policy a few months after it was set up, 
changing what was being covered and removing Mrs A from the policy, suggesting to me 
that they were aware of it. So I think they were given a choice to have it when they were sold 
it initially in 2004.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs A and Mr A. This means it didnt have 
to check if it was suitable for their circumstances. Instead it had to provide clear enough information about the policy to allow Mrs A and Mr A to make an informed decision about 
taking it out.
I dont know if Nationwide made them aware of the key terms and conditions of the policy 
before they agreed to buy the policy. But from what I know of their situation at the time, I 
dont think they wouldve been caught by any of the key exclusions. So, I dont think better 
information about the policy wouldve changed Mrs A and Mr As mind about taking it out.
Mrs A and Mr A said they had 12 months sick pay and savings to support them if they were 
unable to work or were sick. This is an unusually high amount and so our service asked for 
further details about this, but they have not been able to recollect any more details about this 
or provided any further information. With this in mind I think the policy would have been 
useful to Mrs A and Mr A in an extended time of need for the first few months of the policy 
that they were jointly covered. While the policy initially provided accident and sickness cover, 
it was amended to just unemployment cover a short while after premiums became payable. 
From this point on, as the policy only provided unemployment cover, Mrs A and Mr As sick 
pay wouldnt have made it unsuitable, in any event. It would also mean the policy couldve 
repaid their mortgage for up to 12 months if Mr M lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve 
been useful for them.
The cost of the policy was set out for Mrs A and Mr A on the mortgage offer so I think they 
wouldve known how much they had to pay for the insurance.
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think this policy was mis-sold to Mrs A and Mr 
A.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman