DRN-2226959
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined their 
claim for damage to wiring following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R had buildings insurance with Fairmead. The policy was in joint names but, 
for ease, Ill refer only to Mr R throughout my decision.
Mr R suffered an escape of water when a pipe in his bathroom burst, causing damage to his 
kitchen below. He made a claim to Fairmead, which it accepted in part. Fairmeads surveyor 
didnt think the wiring in the kitchen was damaged by the water so it declined that part of the 
claim.
Mr R complained to Fairmead because the wiring had been working before the escape of 
water so he thought it should cover the repairs. Fairmead didnt think hed provided enough 
evidence to show that it should cover the claim, but it said if Mr R provided an expert report it 
would reconsider.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She thought that Fairmead had fairly 
declined the claim because Mr R couldnt show that the faulty wiring was directly linked to 
the escape of water. Even so, Fairmead had agreed to reconsider the claim if Mr R provided 
evidence from an expert. Our investigator thought that was reasonable. 
Mr R didnt agree. He provided another report from his electrician to support his claim, but 
neither our investigator nor Fairmead thought it was enough to change the outcome of the 
claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For broadly the same reasons as our investigator, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain.
The issue here is that Fairmead accepted Mr Rs claim for the escape of water but declined 
cover for the wiring repairs. Fairmead said the wiring was old and needed replacing anyway, 
and there wasnt enough evidence to show that the escape of water was the main cause of 
the damage.
Mr Rs policy covers his buildings for damage caused by escape of water, with some 
exceptions. The following points are clearly stated in the policy booklet:
1. We will pay the cost to us of any necessary replacement or repair work carried out, 
provided that, immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the damage, the buildings are in 
good repair. 
And, 
 
Under this policy, we will not pay for: 
1. Gradual events Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear that you know is 
happening gradually over time.
Fairmead declined the claim because neither its surveyor nor Mr Rs electrician reported that 
the water was the direct cause of damage to the wiring. But Mr R didnt agree because his 
wiring was working immediately before the escape of water.
In circumstances such as this, its reasonable for Fairmead, and me, to rely on the opinions 
of experts in the relevant field. I understand that Mr R doesnt think Fairmeads surveyor is 
an expert, but I dont think it matters here. Thats because I think Mr Rs electrical reports 
support Fairmeads decision.
In his first report, the electrician stated:
Changed consumer unit and tested wiring. Wiring found to be faulty and in poor condition. 
Downstairs ring was found to be faulty. Recommend rewiring downstairs ring.
Fairmead said this suggests the damage was mainly due to wear and tear, which is not 
covered under the policy. I agree. Mr Rs electrician states the wiring was in poor condition 
but does not directly link that to water damage. 
Mr R provided a second electrical report which said:
We confirm that the wiring prior to the flood at the above address was old but fit for 
purpose.
I understand that this directly responds to the policy term that the wiring must be in good 
repair prior to the incident. However, fit for purpose and good repair are not, to me, the 
same thing. The wiring may have been working, but it doesnt mean that it was in good 
condition before the escape of water. Nor does the report state, clearly, that the water 
caused the damage.
Mr R provided a third report which stated:
The route (sic) cause of the majority of sockets on the ground floor failing was due to the 
saturation of the electrics in the Kitchen.
Fairmead considered the report but maintained its decision to decline this part of the claim. I 
dont think thats unreasonable because, even here, the electrician isnt saying the escape of 
water caused the wiring to fail to the extent that the whole of the downstairs needed rewiring. 
Given the lack of detail or a very clear statement with reasons to explain that the water was 
the only reason the downstairs wiring failed, and that the old and poor condition of the wiring 
was irrelevant, then I think its reasonable that Fairmead declined the claim in line with the 
terms of the policy.
I should explain that Fairmead told Mr R it will consider any evidence he can provide to 
support his claim. Hes aware that the latest report wasnt enough to change the outcome of 
his claim, but he hasnt provided anything further. In summary, Fairmead declined to cover the repairs for Mr Rs damaged wiring, because the 
expert evidence suggests that the age and poor condition of the wiring was the major factor 
in it failing. It relied upon the policy terms which say cover is not provided for wear and tear, 
or matters which are considered routine maintenance. In the absence of an expert report 
stating otherwise, I think that was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman