DRN-4171163
The complaint
Mr M complains that London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C) put his pension fund into an 
investment that later went into receivership. He says L&C should compensate him for his 
loss.
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options) has been dealing with the complaint on 
behalf of L&C. Options is part of the same group of companies as L&C. For ease of 
reference I have referred to L&C throughout this decision.
What happened
The transaction
On 24 January 2012 Mr M signed a SIPP application form to transfer his occupational 
pension into a SIPP with L&C and to invest the funds inside the SIPP in an Agroforestry 
Lease offered by Sustainable Agroenergy PLC (SA). The investment involved leasing plots 
of land in Cambodia from SA and renting them out to a Cambodian company connected to 
SA. According to agreements Mr M signed, the plots were planted with jatropha trees. And 
he was to receive 50% of the gross value of the extracted reserves the Cambodian company 
would generate by harvesting seeds from the trees on his plots to make bio-fuel.
I said in my provisional decision that I understand that the pension scheme Mr M transferred 
out of was a defined benefit scheme. Neither party has disagreed with that.
Mr Ms SIPP application form listed his financial advisers as RealSIPP LLP (RealSIPP) and 
CIB Life & Pensions Ltd (CIB). It provided FSA authorisation numbers for both, and contact 
details for RealSIPP. RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB from 6 April 2010 to 
4 June 2015. CIB was an authorised firm until 4 June 2015. The form said Mr M wasnt given 
advice at the point of sale. It said he would manage the investment himself, as opposed to 
having a financial adviser manage it or appointing an investment manager. It said fees of 
£1,000 upfront plus £200 per year would be paid to RealSIPP.
RealSIPP submitted Mr Ms SIPP application form to L&C on 27 January 2012. L&C 
received it on 30 January 2012. L&C said it formally opened Mr Ms SIPP on 13 February 
2012.
L&C signed lease and rental agreements for the investment on 14 and 16 February 2012. 
The agreements said Mr M would purchase the lease of 6.8 plots for almost £41,000. They 
said the plots were held in trust for SA. And after L&C had paid for the plots, the trustee 
would hold them in trust for the benefit of L&C. The trustee would issue a Certificate of 
Leasehold which would evidence L&Cs beneficial ownership of the land. The terms said 
L&C could sell the plots back to SA for the original purchase price during years five to ten of 
the lease. And L&C could offer the lease for sale to a third party at any time.
Prior to these events  in November 2011  the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) had opened a 
criminal investigation into SA. In February 2012 a court froze SAs assets. And in March 
2012 SA entered receivership. The SFO later brought charges. Three individuals were found 
guilty and given prison sentences. The SFO investigation focused on the sale and promotion 
of SAs products, including the one Mr M invested in. The SFO found that investors had 
been deliberately misled about the nature of the investment and a person responsible for 
sales had obtained commission rates of 65% of the amounts invested. It also noted that SA 
was effectively insolvent by mid-2011. 
In April 2012 the administrator for SA wrote to investors saying SA had no title to the land 
being invested in and no way its business model could work, and most of the land was 
unsuitable for jatropha trees. The administrator said investors had been promised returns of 
5% in the first year, 12% in the second year, and 20% in the third and subsequent years.
Additional background information
I note that L&C hasnt provided all of the evidence weve requested as part of our 
investigation of Mr Ms complaint. The evidence Ive considered in reaching this decision 
includes information provided to this service by L&C as part of our investigation of another 
complaint (which was the subject of published decision reference DRN-3587366) in which 
RealSIPP introduced a consumer to L&C. Ive summarised this evidence below.
L&C told us that by applying to be an intermediary, RealSIPP agreed to be bound by the 
terms of The Intermediary Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts. Ive seen copies of the 
L&C intermediary applications that CIB and RealSIPP signed on 13 September 2010 to 
confirm this, and Ive also seen a copy of the agreement.
L&C also gave us copies of print outs from the FSA register showing that as at November 
2011 RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. And CIBs permissions included 
advising on pension transfers and pension opt outs.
Ive also seen L&Cs Open Pension Brochure which relates to the SIPP Mr M opened. 
Amongst other things, the document says, The L&C Open Pension is not appropriate for 
everybody and it is essential that you obtain financial advice before entering into one. The 
document also says L&C has no responsibility for investment decisions. But that itll ensure 
assets are correctly registered and comply with HM Revenue & Customs rules and 
regulations.
And Ive seen that archived versions of RealSIPPs website (www.realsipp.com) from 
3 February 2011 and 3 January 2012, which said RealSIPP didnt provide advice on 
investments and instead only provided generic information on the considerations and risks 
associated with property investment. It said:
If you are in any doubt over your chosen investment and its suitability to your needs 
and circumstances you should seek professional advice from a suitably qualified 
Independent Financial Adviser.
Mr Ms complaint
In February 2019 Mr M complained to L&C. His representative said SA was an unregulated, 
high-risk investment which didnt suit his risk profile, and L&C didnt do enough due diligence 
on the investment before purchasing it on Mr Ms behalf. The representative said the 
investment wasnt diverse enough and Mr M had been given an unbalanced and misleading 
recommendation because he was promised an incentive of £10,000. The representative said 
Mr M was vulnerable to unsuitable advice because he needed money to pay off debt and 
L&C failed to record and review the size and type of investment it allowed, failed to identify 
an anomalous investment, and failed to request a suitability report. It also said L&C charged 
unnecessary fees.L&C replied in April 2019. It said it had become aware in early 2013 that SAs parent 
company was in administration. And it said the directors of the parent company had been 
convicted of fraud in relation to investment schemes.
It said Mr Ms complaint was out of time because L&C had opened his SIPP and made the 
investment more than six years before he complained, and Mr M wouldve known more than 
three years before he complained that the investment wasnt low-risk. It said statements and 
letters from L&C between August 2014 and July 2016 told Mr M that his investment had no 
value.
L&C also said that, even if the complaint wasnt out of time, L&C wasnt responsible for 
Mr Ms loss. In summary, L&C said it wasnt responsible for the suitability of Mr Ms 
investment, and that it met its obligations to do due diligence in Mr Ms case.
On its role, L&C said, in summary, that:
It was an execution-only SIPP provider with limited powers under its trust deed to 
veto clients investments. 
L&Cs role was to satisfy itself that the investment was capable of being held in the 
SIPP in accordance with trust rules and HMRC regulations.
L&C didnt provide and wasnt permitted to provide advice. The advisor was 
responsible for the appropriateness, longevity, sustainability and suitability of the 
investment in line with the regulators requirements. Mr Ms vulnerability and risk 
profile and the fact the investment was unregulated werent relevant to L&C insofar 
as L&C didnt advise on the investment.
L&C didnt manage the SIPP or the assets in it. On the application form Mr M 
confirmed hed manage the investment himself.
L&C had always complied with the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules in the 
Handbook of the regulator, the FCA, including COBS 11.2.19 which said:
Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute 
the order following the specific instruction
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to 
obtain the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an 
order, or a specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions from the 
client relating to the order or the specific aspect of the order
L&C was aware of references to suitability reports in a 2009 review by then-regulator 
the FSA, but SIPP operators werent required to view suitability reports. Suitability, 
advice and recommendations were a matter between client and adviser.
FCA guidance in 2013 said SIPP operators werent responsible for advice from third 
parties. And COBS 2.4.4 allowed L&C to rely on information provided by another 
regulated firm (e.g. the investment advice that the investment was suitable).
On due diligence L&C said:
In this case, [L&C] ensured that:
Appropriate and relevant due diligence was undertaken both to ensure that title to the asset would be obtained and that the [SA] investment proposition could be 
held in the SIPP
The investment was a legitimate business
The investment was secure and that the custody of assets was through a 
reputable arrangement. [L&C] further ensured that appropriate contractual 
agreements were drawn up and legally enforceable
The investment was not impaired
The investment could be valued and was capable of being purchased and sold
Clients were introduced by a reputable company and, where appropriate, were 
warned to take further investment advice before proceeding
L&C said it had controls in place to monitor business introduced, and the source and volume 
of business. And that was under constant review. It said that where it saw anomalies it took 
appropriate action such as ceasing to accept business.
L&C said that in relation to investments it ensured investment entities existed and where 
practical it obtained a legal opinion on an investment, and as far as possible it verified claims 
made about the investment and would not proceed if the adviser was not authorised.
L&C also said the main reason Mr M transferred his pension was to access the funds in his 
defined pension, and that was shown by documents from the pension administrator which 
L&C received on 14 December 2011 (which L&C said it enclosed, but which it hasnt 
provided to this service).
In April 2019 Mr M referred his complaint to us. In summary his representative said the 
following:
The SIPP Mr M transferred to was totally inappropriate for him, a retail client with no 
experience of investing.
The investment was esoteric, illiquid and unregulated  inappropriate for a retail 
investor like Mr M who said he never had money to be adventurous and was always 
short.
L&C didnt do the necessary due diligence to ensure it knew the client and his 
attitude to risk. The true extent of the risk wasnt disclosed. 
L&C shouldve been concerned over Mr Ms understanding of the situation. Mr M was 
promised £10,000 to transfer and advised to ignore any advice not to transfer. Mr M 
was going to use the £10,000 to pay some of his debts.
L&C failed to record and review the type and size of investment and to identify an 
anomalous investment.
Mr M had lost most if not all of his pension. He had been relying on it for retirement.
Mr M realised there was a problem shortly after he transferred when there was a 
fraud investigation. He tried to locate his money but eventually gave up because he 
thought there was nothing he could do. He moved away for a couple of years. 
Around a year prior to complaining about L&C he made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). The FSCS paid him £50,000 
compensation and said he had further losses. Mr M then realised he could potentially 
claim more so he approached the representative he was now using.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. L&C reiterated its position that it had 
limited powers to veto an investment and it didnt provide advice or comment on the merits of 
an investment. It added:
Our responsibilities in connection with SIPP investments are to satisfy ourselves, in 
our capacity as Trustee and hence the potential owner of the investment, that they 
are allowed within the Trust rules and do not breach HMRC regulations. We also 
establish what liabilities and responsibilities we would be required to take on as the 
owner of the asset such as any ongoing financial liabilities which would need to be 
met from the SIPP fund. On an ongoing basis we maintain records of the pension 
arrangement including all transactions, monitoring receipt of income due from 
investments and make appropriate reports to HMRC and the FCA.
The investigator asked L&C to provide the findings of its due diligence activities. L&C didnt 
provide anything in response.
The investigator formed the view that the complaint was in time because Mr M had no 
reason to know before he said he did that he could have a complaint against L&C for 
accepting his SIPP application.
In considering the merits of the complaint the investigator said L&C had done some due 
diligence checks on RealSIPP and it was reasonable for L&C to accept an application from 
RealSIPP because RealSIPP was an appointed representative of a regulated financial 
services firm and the investigator couldnt see that there were any warnings from the 
regulator that should have caused L&C to refuse applications from RealSIPP.
But the investigator took the view that the complaint should be upheld because L&C 
shouldve known through due diligence on the SA investment that the investment wasnt 
appropriate for a SIPP. And so it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application.
L&C disagreed with the investigators view that the complaint was in time. L&C didnt 
comment on the investigators view of the merits of the complaint.
The investigator asked Mr M about the payment of £10,000 that was mentioned. Mr M said 
hed received a letter about the £10,000 but he no longer had the letter. He said the payment 
was to be an incentive payment but he didnt receive it and the investment provider was 
under investigation by the SFO.
The investigator asked L&C to provide all of its correspondence to Mr M from 1 January 
2012 to 7 February 2016. L&C didnt provide anything in response.
Because no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a decision. 
My provisional decision
In advance of this final decision, I issued a provisional decision in which I said I thought 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
I also explained in my provisional decision why I was satisfied Mr Ms complaint was one this 
service could consider. In particular, I said the rules in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the 
FCA Handbook (DISP) say that, unless the business agrees or there are exceptional circumstances, a complaint is out of time if its made more than six years after the event 
complained of or, if later, more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of the cause for complaint. I said Mr M had made his 
complaint more than six years after the event he complained of, but not more than three 
years after he was aware or ought reasonably to have become aware of his cause for 
complaint.
Mr M said he accepted my provisional decision.
L&C said it didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary, L&C said Mr M was aware 
there was a problem with his investment in about 2013  when the fraud investigation came 
to light  or, at the latest, in 2014  when he received the first annual statement for his SIPP 
account, he became aware that RealSIPP didnt hold title to the land, and individuals 
associated with the investment were convicted. And because he was aware of a problem 
with his investment, L&C said, Mr M was also aware  or ought reasonably to have become 
aware  that he had cause for complaint about L&C.
L&C said a consumer is aware  or ought reasonably to be aware  of their cause for 
complaint if the consumer knows enough for it to be reasonable to investigate further. And to 
be aware of the cause for complaint, the consumer doesnt need to know the specific details 
of what happened or what shouldve happened. L&C said a consumer ought to be aware of 
concerns around due diligence when they have cause to question whether an investment 
should have been accepted into a SIPP  and this was the crux of Mr Ms complaint. And 
L&C said, Quite simply, there can be no clearer indication of due diligence failings than a 
failure to obtain title to the investment.
On this basis L&C said Mr Ms complaint was out of time and couldnt be considered by this 
service.
Jurisdiction
Before considering the merits of Mr Ms complaint, Ive considered whether he complained 
within the time limits allowed for making complaints. Ive taken into account the rules in DISP 
which  say that, without the consent of the business involved, and unless there are 
exceptional circumstances, we cant consider a complaint that is brought to us outside set 
time limits. DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  more than:
a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
And Ive taken into account L&Cs submissions on the timeliness of Mr Ms complaint, and 
that L&C hasnt consented to us considering the complaint.
Mr M complained to L&C on 7 February 2019. Its not in dispute that he made the complaint 
more than six years after L&C opened his SIPP and invested his funds, which happened in 
2012. The key question for me is whether he made the complaint more than three years after he was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of his cause for complaint. So 
I need to determine whether Mr M was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of 
his cause for complaint before February 2016.
When I say here cause for complaint I mean cause to make this complaint about L&C, not 
just cause to complain about anyone at all. To be aware of a cause for complaint, a 
consumer should be in a position that they can reasonably be expected to know that: theres 
a problem; theyve suffered or might suffer a loss; and someone else is responsible for the 
problem  and they need to know who that someone is. So to have knowledge of his cause 
for complaint about L&C, Mr M had to be aware, or in a position where he should reasonably 
have been aware, that there was a problem which had caused or may have caused him loss 
and that L&C had responsibility for that problem.
Mr M said he became aware there was a problem with his pension after the fraud 
investigation began, but he didnt think there was anything he could do. He said it was after 
he claimed compensation from the FSCS in 2018 that he realised he could potentially make 
other claims for redress.
Based on what hes told us its more likely than not that Mr M knew more than three years 
prior to making his complaint to L&C that his investment had failed and that he had lost the 
funds he had transferred into the SIPP. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr M was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that L&C had any responsibility for his loss. 
Ive seen no evidence Mr M connected L&C to the problem, or that he thought L&C was 
responsible for the problem that had caused him loss, before February 2016.  Further, I do 
not think a retail investor in Mr Ms position, acting reasonably at that time, could reasonably 
have been expected to make that connection or conclude L&C was or was likely to be 
responsible for the problem.
I dont think Mr M, or a reasonable retail investor in his position, could reasonably be 
expected to have been aware before February 2016 of the obligations SIPP providers were 
under.
In the circumstances I dont consider that Mr M ought to have had an awareness of the sort 
of obligations SIPP providers were under at any time before late 2018. Up to that point, 
although there had been some build up in the amount of information about SIPP complaints, 
including the regulatory publications Ive mentioned in this decision, the industry maintained 
that its obligations were very limited.
I think the position had changed by late 2018 with the unsuccessful  judicial review challenge 
in Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd v Financial  Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 
2878 (Admin) (BBSAL) which was published on 30 October 2018. After the judgment in 
BBSAL was published, it could be seen that the industrys previously espoused position that 
SIPP providers obligations were very limited might not be the correct view. And that there 
was also a reasonable body of opinion that SIPP providers did have responsibilities which 
meant they could, in some circumstances, be held responsible for problems with 
investments held in SIPPs.
Ive carefully considered what L&C said about problems with the investments, including lack 
of title to the parcels of land in Cambodia. L&C said it was clear by 2014 that there were 
problems, including that title hadnt been obtained and, there can be no clearer indication of 
due diligence failures than a failure to obtain title to the investment. 
By 2015 the regulator had published reports on the results of two thematic reviews on SIPP 
operators (in 2009 and 2012), issued guidance for SIPP operators (in 2013) and written to the CEOs of SIPP operators (in 2014). A common theme of those communications is the 
regulator considered a SIPP operator had obligations in relation to its customers even where 
it does not give advice, and that many SIPP operators had a poor understanding of those 
obligations.  In the circumstances I dont consider either Mr M, or a reasonable retail investor 
in his position, should reasonably have had an awareness of the obligations SIPP providers 
were under when Mr M received the information L&C says was enough to make him aware 
he had cause for complaint.
I dont think Mr M would need to have understood the details of the SIPP providers 
obligations to have been aware (or in a position whereby he ought reasonably to have been 
aware) of his cause for complaint. But I think Mr M wouldve needed to be able to attribute 
the problem to acts or omissions by L&C. And I dont think there was any information 
available to Mr M before February 2016 that ought reasonably to have made him aware that 
he could attribute his problem to the acts or omissions of L&C. In these circumstances, I 
dont think Mr M was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, more than three 
years before he complained that L&C had any responsibility for his loss. So its my view that 
this complaint was made in time and can be considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, Ive taken 
into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes 
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
The purpose of this decision is to set out my findings on whats fair and reasonable, and 
explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a point by point response to 
every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so, while I have considered all 
the submissions by both parties, Ive focussed here on the points I believe are key to my 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Relevant considerations
The principles
In my view the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 and 6 
which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what it says about the application of the 
Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 which Ive set 
out above, said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considered section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in BBA held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I were 
to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J adopted a similar 
approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore satisfied that the 
Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when deciding this 
complaint. The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case.  
Ive considered whether Adams means that the Principles shouldnt be taken into account in 
deciding this case. And, Im of the view that it doesnt. I note that the Principles for 
Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial case against Options SIPP. 
And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to SIPP operators in his 
judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments says anything about how the Principles 
apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this 
means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken account of 
both judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of the FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on 
the facts of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ms complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual 
relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 
2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. And he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. 
And in Mr Ms complaint, amongst other things, Im considering whether L&C ought to have 
identified that the SA investment involved a significant risk of consumer detriment and, if so, 
whether it ought to have declined to accept applications to invest in SA before it accepted Mr 
Ms application. The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Ms cases are also different. And I need to construe the 
duties L&C owed to Mr M under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Ms case.   
So Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Ms case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Mr M 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an investment in a SIPP 
and/or rejecting an application isnt the same thing as advising Mr M on the merits of the 
investment and/or the SIPP. 
Overall, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ms case.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued the following publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their clients. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 
6 includes clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse 
the individual risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this. 
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat clients fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme 
is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from non-regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, andensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
These publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it treats its customers 
fairly and produces the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The publications indicated that the regulatory obligations of SIPP operators include doing 
due diligence checks on parties who introduce clients to SIPP operators and on the 
investments that SIPP operators allow to be held in SIPPs.
I acknowledge the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal guidance 
(whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). But the fact those publications didnt constitute 
formal (i.e. statutory) guidance doesnt mean theyre not relevant considerations. The 
publications provide a reminder that the Principles apply and are an indication of the kinds of 
things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it treats its customers fairly and to produce the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, Im satisfied these publications also 
go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time. So Im satisfied its appropriate to take them into account when considering whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
Berkeley Burke case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter 
go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And 
the judge in the Berkeley Burke case endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman.The judge in Adams v Options SIPP (Adams) didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review 
Report, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his 
consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant 
to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the 
limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable for me to take into account the publications 
that were issued after the events of Mr Ms complaint. The fact the later publications (i.e. 
those other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events of this complaint 
doesnt mean the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Its clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and the 
2014 Dear CEO letter), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst 
the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the 
standards shaped what was expected of them changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves had not changed. The later publications were published after the events subject 
to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the 
obligation to act in accordance with those Principles.
The regulator also issued an alert in 2013 about advisers giving advice to consumers on 
SIPPs without considering the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP. The alert 
(Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP) set out that this type of restricted advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes).

Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes.The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
highlighted that advisers using the restricted advice model discussed in the alert generally 
werent meeting existing regulatory requirements and set out the regulators concerns about 
industry practices at the time. 
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obligated L&C to ensure the 
transactions were suitable for Mr M. I accept L&C wasnt required to give advice to Mr M, 
and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or the 
scope of, the Principles. But theyre evidence of what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. And so its fair and reasonable for me to take them into account when deciding 
this complaint.
Even if I took the view that publications post-dating the events of this complaint dont help 
clarify the type of good industry practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that 
doesnt alter my view on what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Thats because I find that the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear 
indication of what L&C could and should have done to comply with regulatory obligations 
that existed at the relevant time before allowing the SA investment into the SIPP.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams didnt consider the regulatory publications 
in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances bearing in 
mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or good 
industry practice.
And in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ms 
application from RealSIPP, L&C complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due skill, 
care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly; and 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally. In doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what L&C should have done to comply 
with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  
and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications 
listed above are relevant considerations to that decision. So taking account of the factual 
context of this case, its my view that in order for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations, 
(under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst other things it should have undertaken 
sufficient due diligence into RealSIPP and the business RealSIPP was introducing, both 
initially and on an ongoing basis. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ill be looking at whether L&C 
took reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr M fairly, in accordance with 
his best interests. And what I think is fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key 
issue in Mr Ms complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted 
Mr Ms SIPP application in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out 
appropriate due diligence checks on RealSIPP and SA before deciding to accept Mr Ms 
SIPP application. 
The questions I need to consider are whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, have identified that consumers 
introduced by RealSIPP and/or investing in SA were being put at significant risk of detriment. 
And, if so, whether L&C should therefore not have accepted Mr Ms application.The contract between L&C and Mr M
This decision is made on the understanding that L&C acted purely as a SIPP operator. So, I 
dont say L&C should (or could) have given advice to Mr M or otherwise have ensured the 
suitability of the SIPP or investments for him. I accept that L&C made it clear to Mr M that it 
wasnt giving, nor was it able to give, advice and that it played an execution-only role in his 
SIPP investment. And that forms Mr M signed confirmed, amongst other things, that losses 
arising as a result of L&C acting on his instructions were his responsibility. 
Ive not overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms case is made with all of this in 
mind. So, Ive proceeded on the understanding that L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Mr M on the suitability of the SIPP or SA investment. But I remain satisfied 
that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its operation of SIPPs business, L&C 
had to decide whether to accept introductions of business and/or investments with the 
Principles in mind. And I dont agree that it couldnt have rejected introductions or 
applications without contravening its regulatory permissions by giving investment advice.
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
The business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. The regulatory publications 
provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the FSA and FCA during 
their work with SIPP operators, including being satisfied that it should accept applications 
from a particular introducer, and being satisfied that a particular investment is an appropriate 
one to accept. So Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, when conducting its business, L&C was required to consider whether to accept or 
reject particular referrals of business and particular applications for investment in its SIPPs.
L&C was under a regulatory obligation to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, and pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (including Mr M) and treat them fairly. Its obligations and duties 
in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the circumstances, 
information and events on an ongoing basis.
And I think L&C understood this at the time too, as Ive seen on the complaint which was the 
subject of published decision reference DRN-3587366 that it did more than just check the 
FSA entries for RealSIPP and CIB to ensure they were regulated to give advice. It also 
entered into intermediary agreements with those firms. And its apparent that L&C had 
access to some information about the type and volume of introductions it was receiving from 
RealSIPP, as its previously been able to provide us with information about this when 
requested. 
So, and well before the time of Mr Ms application, I think that L&C ought to have understood 
that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate checks on 
RealSIPP to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing. 
And I think L&C also ought to have understood that its obligations meant that it had a 
responsibility to carry out appropriate due diligence on investments before accepting them 
into a SIPP. So Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its 
business, L&C was also required to consider whether to accept or reject a particular 
investment (here SA), with the Principles in mind.
My decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms case is made with 
all of this in mind. Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice L&C should have carried out due diligence on RealSIPP and SA, before deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
L&Cs due diligence on RealSIPP
L&C didnt provide any evidence to show in Mr Ms case what due diligence checks it did on 
RealSIPP or what conclusions it drew from any checks it did. Ive looked at evidence L&C 
gave us on the complaint which was the subject of published decision reference DRN-
3587366 which was about L&C accepting an introduction from RealSIPP in November 2011. 
The evidence L&C gave us in response to that complaint shows that, by the time it accepted 
Mr Ms application, L&C had:
checked the FSA register to ensure RealSIPP and its principal were regulated and 
authorised to give financial advice.
entered into intermediary agreements with RealSIPP and its principal.
And prior to accepting Mr Ms application L&C also had access to some information about 
the type and volume of introductions it was receiving from RealSIPP.
L&C told us in relation to that other complaint that it wouldn't have accepted applications 
from a firm that wasnt authorised by the FSA. And L&C also told us that its directors from 
around the same period have confirmed its policy was that applicants transferring an 
occupational pension, as Mr M was here, had to have had advice made available to them 
which would, as L&C put it in the other case, (have been) through RealSIPP. And that it 
was then for the applicant to choose whether to take up the intermediarys offer of advice.
These steps go some way towards meeting L&Cs regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice. But I think L&C failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on RealSIPP before 
accepting business from it, or L&C failed to draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what 
it did know about RealSIPP. My view is that L&C ought reasonably to have concluded it 
shouldnt accept business from RealSIPP, and it should have ended its relationship with 
RealSIPP before Mr M made his application. I say this because:
L&C was aware or should have been aware of potential risks of consumer detriment 
associated with business introduced by RealSIPP by the time of Mr Ms application. 
There was insufficient evidence to show RealSIPP (or any other regulated party) was 
offering or giving full regulated advice to Mr M (that is advice on the transfer of the 
pension, the establishment of the SIPP and advice on the intended investment).
The introductions had anomalous features  high-risk business, in relatively high 
volumes, for unregulated overseas property developments and other esoteric 
investments. And, even though RealSIPP had the necessary permissions to give full 
advice on the business it was introducing, it wasnt giving advice on a large 
proportion of that business. L&C shouldve taken steps to address these risks (or, 
given these risks, have simply declined to deal further with RealSIPP).
Such steps should have involved getting a full understanding of RealSIPPs business 
model  through requesting information from RealSIPP and through independent 
checks.
Such understanding wouldve revealed there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment associated with introductions of business from RealSIPP.
In the alternative RealSIPP would have been unwilling to answer or fully answer the questions about its business model. 
In either event L&C shouldve concluded it shouldnt accept introductions from 
RealSIPP.
The availability of advice to Mr M
Ive seen from evidence provided on the other complaint that L&C entered into intermediary 
agreements with RealSIPP and its principal CIB. As part of this process, it was open to L&C 
to mention to RealSIPP any policy requirements it had for full regulated advice to be made 
available to applicants where introduced business involved occupational pension transfers. 
L&C couldve highlighted this in its intermediary application form, The Intermediary 
Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts, or in supplementary correspondence with RealSIPP. 
But Ive seen no evidence that L&C mentioned this.
Mr Ms SIPP application made clear that he hadnt been given advice at the point of sale. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr M was offered full regulated advice on his transfer to and 
investment in the SIPP. And RealSIPPs website said it didnt provide individual financial 
advice on any of the developments in which clients may wish to invest. 
Having carefully considered the available evidence I think its most likely that Mr M wasnt 
offered full regulated advice.  
So based on the available evidence I think there was insufficient basis for L&C to reasonably 
assume that advice had been given or offered to Mr M.
The possibility no regulated advice had been given or made available was a clear and 
obvious potential risk of consumer detriment here. Mr M was transferring funds from a 
defined benefit pension to invest entirely in an esoteric overseas unregulated forestry 
scheme  a move which was highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail 
clients. 
Anomalous features
RealSIPP was introducing consumers who were investing in high-risk non-standard assets
RealSIPP had a history of introducing consumers who were all investing in high-risk non-
standard esoteric investments, such as unregulated overseas property development and the 
unregulated overseas forestry scheme that Mr M invested in. As mentioned, I think its fair to 
say that such investments are highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail 
clients. They will generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population  
sophisticated and/or high net worth investors. So I think L&C either was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware that the type of business RealSIPP was introducing was 
high-risk and therefore carried a potential risk of consumer detriment on this basis too.
High proportion of execution-only business
In addition to the possibility that no advice had been given or made available to Mr M, the 
available evidence shows that L&C was, or should have been, aware that not offering or 
giving advice was something RealSIPP was doing routinely. 
Its clear that L&C had access to information about the number and nature of introductions 
that RealSIPP made, as its been able to provide us with details about this when requested 
in relation to the other complaint Ive mentioned. An example of good practice identified in 
the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report was:Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
So I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising that information would be 
consistent with good industry practice and L&Cs regulatory obligations. As highlighted in the 
2009 Thematic Review Report, the reason why the records are important is so that 
potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
From the figures L&C provided, a little under half the introductions from RealSIPP were 
transacted as execution-only business (i.e. with no advice being given by RealSIPP). Thats 
a large proportion of the total business RealSIPP introduced, and I think its likely that 
RealSIPP had introduced business to L&C without providing advice on a number of 
occasions before Mr Ms introduction.
So I think that, from very early on, L&C was on notice that RealSIPP, although the appointed 
representative of a regulated business that had permissions to advise on all the business 
being introduced, wasnt a firm that was doing things in a conventional way. And I think L&C 
ought to have recognised that there was a risk here that RealSIPP might be choosing to 
introduce some consumers not only without them being given full regulated advice but also 
without them having been offered full regulated advice.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for L&C in its dealings with RealSIPP. Its highly 
unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in execution-only transactions involving 
pension transfers to invest in high-risk esoteric investments, such as unregulated overseas 
forestry schemes. Thats because the risks involved in such transactions are unlikely to be 
fully understood by most people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say 
that most advice firms decline to be involved in such transactions and certainly dont transact 
this kind of business in significant volumes. 
I think L&C ought to have viewed this as a serious cause for concern  this was a further 
clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment.
Volume of business
During our investigation of the other complaint L&C said 153 members were introduced by 
RealSIPP and over a quarter of these had an occupational pension scheme. Prior to the 
consumers application in the other complaint RealSIPP had introduced 44 applications in 
about 9 months. I think L&C shouldve been concerned that such a volume of introductions, 
relating exclusively to consumers investing in higher-risk esoteric investments, was unusual 
 particularly from a small IFA business like RealSIPP. And it should have considered how a 
small IFA business introducing this volume of higher-risk business was able to meet 
regulatory standards.
And I think this concern ought to have been even greater in a case like Mr Ms where a 
defined benefit pension was involved. At the relevant date COBS 19.1.6G stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interest.
While I acknowledge this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser 
when determining the suitability of a pension transfer, it emphasises the regulators concern about the potential detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. Given the 
nature of its business and regulatory status, Id expect L&C to have been familiar with the 
guidance contained in COBS  even if the guidance didnt apply directly to L&C.
This was a further clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment. 
What fair and reasonable steps should L&C have taken in the circumstances?
L&C could simply have concluded that, given the potential risks of consumer detriment  
which I think were clear and obvious at the time  it shouldnt accept applications from 
RealSIPP. That would have been a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances. 
Alternatively, L&C could have taken fair and reasonable steps to address the potential risks 
of consumer detriment. Ive set these out below.
Requesting information directly from RealSIPP
Given the significant potential risk of consumer detriment I think that, as part of its due 
diligence on RealSIPP, L&C ought to have found out more about how RealSIPP was 
operating long before it received Mr Ms application. And mindful of the type of introductions 
it was receiving from RealSIPP at the outset, I think its fair and reasonable to expect L&C, in 
line with its regulatory obligations, to have made some specific enquiries and obtained 
information about RealSIPPs business model.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review explained that the regulator would expect SIPP 
operators to have procedures and controls, and for management information to be gathered 
and analysed, so as to enable the identification of, amongst other things, consumer 
detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Further, that this could then be addressed in an 
appropriate manner for example by contacting the members to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP guidance gave an example of good practice as:
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
And I think that L&C, before accepting further applications from RealSIPP, shouldve 
checked with RealSIPP about: how it came into contact with potential clients, what 
agreements it had in place with its clients, whether all of the clients it was introducing were 
being offered full regulated advice, what its arrangements with any unregulated businesses 
promoting investments were, how and why retail clients were interested in making these 
esoteric investments, whether it was aware of anyone else providing information to clients, 
how it was able to meet with or speak with all its clients, and what material was being 
provided to clients by it. 
I think its more likely than not that if L&C had asked RealSIPP for this information that 
RealSIPP wouldve then provided a full response to the information sought. And I think its 
most likely that the position suggested on RealSIPPs website wouldve been confirmed  
i.e. that it didnt provide full advice and only provided generic information on the 
considerations and risks associated with property investment.L&C might say it didnt have to obtain this information from RealSIPP. But I think this was a 
fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances, to meet its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice.
Making independent checks
I think, in light of what Ive said above, it would also have been fair and reasonable for L&C 
to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, to have taken independent 
steps to satisfy itself that full regulated advice was being offered to applicants like Mr M. For 
example, it couldve asked for copies of correspondence in which applicants were being 
offered advice.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report said:
we would expect [SIPP operators] to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible 
instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. (bold my emphasis)
The 2009 Thematic Review Report also said that an example of good practice was:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
So I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for L&C to speak to some applicants, like 
Mr M, directly and to ask whether theyd been offered full regulated advice on their 
transactions and seek copies of the suitability reports. 
L&C might say it couldnt comment on advice without potentially being in breach of its 
permissions. Again, I confirm that I accept L&C couldnt give advice. But it had to take 
reasonable steps to meet its regulatory obligations. And in my view such steps included 
addressing a potential risk of consumer detriment by speaking to applicants and having sight 
of advice letters, as this could have provided L&C with further insight into RealSIPPs 
business model, and helped to clarify to L&C whether full regulated advice on the overall 
proposition was being offered/given. This was a fair and reasonable step to take in reaction 
to the clear and obvious risk of consumer detriment Ive mentioned.
Had it taken these fair and reasonable steps, what should L&C have concluded?
If L&C had undertaken these steps I think it ought to have identified, amongst others, the 
following risks before it received Mr Ms application:
RealSIPP was presenting itself publicly (on its website) as providing only generic 
information on the considerations and risks and not providing advice about any of 
the developments in which clients may wish to invest.
Consumers were being introduced to L&C without having been offered full regulated 
advice.
The other anomalous features Ive mentioned did carry a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.Each of these in isolation is very serious, but cumulatively I think they demonstrate that there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with introductions from RealSIPP. 
L&C ought to have concluded RealSIPP had a disregard for its consumers best interests, 
and wasnt meeting many of its regulatory obligations.
Had L&C carried out the due diligence Ive mentioned above, I think it should have identified 
that consumers like Mr M introduced by RealSIPP hadnt been offered, or received, full 
regulated advice from RealSIPP on their transactions.
As previously stated, RealSIPP said it provided generic information about investments,  
rather than advice. And Ive seen no evidence suggesting it ever offered full regulated advice 
to Mr M. This raises significant questions about the motivations and competency of 
RealSIPP  particularly where consumers were being introduced to it by unregulated 
businesses.
I think that if L&C had made enquiries with some applicants introduced by RealSIPP at the 
time, their responses wouldve been consistent with what RealSIPP had disclosed on its 
website in relation to the extent of its role.
I therefore think L&C ought to have concluded that RealSIPP clients like Mr M, didnt have 
full regulated advice made available to them by RealSIPP. And have viewed this as a 
significant point of concern. As retail consumers were transferring their existing pension 
monies to L&C to invest entirely in higher-risk esoteric investments, including unregulated 
overseas property developments, and an unregulated overseas forestry scheme, without the 
benefit of having been offered full regulated advice, by a business which appeared to be 
actively avoiding any responsibility to give advice.
With the above in mind, L&C should also have concluded that the overall volume of business 
and the proportion of consumers who werent apparently receiving any advice raised further 
serious questions about the motivation and competency of RealSIPP.
As such, I think L&C should have concluded  certainly by the time of Mr Ms application  
that it wasnt in accordance with its obligations, or its own policy requirements, to accept 
introductions from RealSIPP. I therefore conclude that its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to say that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application from RealSIPP.
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, 
or treat Mr M fairly by accepting his application from RealSIPP. To my mind, L&C didnt meet 
its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and allowed Mr M to 
be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
L&Cs due diligence on SA
As Ive set out above, I think that if L&C had carried out due diligence on RealSIPP which 
was consistent with its regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time 
then it ought to have concluded that it shouldnt accept applications from RealSIPP at all. So 
I dont necessarily need to consider the due diligence on the SA investment. But I have, for 
completeness, considered what L&C did and ought to have done and concluded in relation 
to the SA investment.
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an investment itself is 
acceptable for inclusion in a SIPP. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators 
publications as set out earlier in this decision. Its also consistent with HMRC rules that 
govern what investments can be held in a SIPP.Despite saying it wasnt responsible for the quality of the SA investment, L&C told Mr M that 
it did a range of due diligence activities on the SA investment. L&C wrote:
In this case, [L&C] ensured that:
appropriate and relevant due diligence was undertaken both to ensure that 
title to the asset would be obtained and that the [SA] investment proposition 
could be held in the SIPP
the investment was a legitimate business
the investment was secure and that the custody of assets was through a 
reputable arrangement. [L&C] further ensured that appropriate contractual 
agreements were drawn up and legally enforceable
the investment was not impaired
the investment could be valued and was capable of being purchased and sold 

 With regards to investment propositions, in addition to the actions above, we 
establish that the entity exists; where practical we obtain a legal opinion on the 
investment; and as far as is possible we verify the claims made about the investment 

Such actions might have been good practice. But L&C hasnt provided evidence to 
demonstrate it actually took these actions, or to demonstrate what conclusions it drew from 
any information arising from the actions. I think if L&C had undertaken adequate checks on 
the SA investment it would reasonably have concluded that it should not accept Mr Ms 
application to invest in SA.
I say that for the following reasons:
SA purported to offer a very high return through oil produced by jatropha trees. There 
appears to have been no basis for the high projected return. I dont expect L&C to 
have been able to say the investment would be successful. But a high projected 
return without any apparent basis should have given L&C cause to question the 
investments credibility.
There was information available which called into question the viability of the 
proposed business model (particularly in light of the very high projected returns).
There was negative commentary in the public domain about investments that 
purported to offer high returns through investment in jatropha plants. Some of these 
articles warned investors against being seduced by high returns that might not be 
achievable, and questioned whether it was possible to make money from growing 
jatropha at all.
SA had no track record.
SAs first accounts which had been published on 6 October 2011 were subject to a 
qualified opinion from the auditors, which means there was some limitation or 
exception to accounting standards. The auditor said, we have not obtained all the 
information and explanations that we consider necessary for the purpose of our audit 
and adequate accounting records have not been kept by [SA] as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Its not clear how the lease of a parcel of land in Cambodia could be valued or 
realised.
The investment was based overseas and would be subject to the domestic laws and 
regulations that apply to the ownership of land and matters governing investments. 
That created additional risk.
The lease and rental agreements L&C signed for the investment didnt specify the 
location of the plots L&C would lease on behalf of Mr M. They said beneficial 
ownership of the plots would be evidenced by a Certificate of Leasehold and didnt 
offer any evidence of title held by the lessor.
SA didnt have title to the land, so if L&C had done the check it said it did on title to 
the asset it ought to have concluded that title wouldnt be obtained.
The information that was available to L&C, and which would have come to light had L&C 
done the types of checks it said it did, ought to have led L&C to the following conclusions: 
SA didnt have title to the land.
There was a risk the investment might be fraudulent  it wasnt clear how such high 
returns could be offered.
The land leases, if they existed, might have been difficult to independently value, 
both at point of purchase and subsequently. It was also possible that there might be 
no market for them. So an investor might not have been able to take benefits from 
their pension, or make changes to it, if they wanted to.
The investment in SA would allow L&Cs clients SIPPs to become a vehicle for a 
high-risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset and could have been 
a scam.
Theres a difference between accepting or rejecting a particular investment for a SIPP and 
advising on its suitability for the individual investor. I accept that L&C wasnt expected to, nor 
was it able to, give advice to Mr M on the suitability of the SIPP and/or SA investment for him 
personally. To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the 
suitability of the SA investment for Mr M. I accept L&C had no obligation to give advice to 
Mr M, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for him.
So my finding isnt that L&C should have concluded that Mr M wasnt a candidate for high 
risk investments. Its that L&C should have concluded the SA investment wasnt acceptable 
for its SIPPs and it thereby failed to treat Mr M fairly or act with due skill, care and diligence 
when accepting the SA investment into his SIPP.
I think its important I emphasise here that Im not saying that L&C should necessarily have 
discovered everything that later became known had it undertaken sufficient due diligence 
before accepting the SA investment into its SIPP. But I do think that appropriate checks 
would have revealed some fundamental issues which were, in and of themselves, sufficient 
basis for L&C to have declined to accept the SA investment in its SIPPs.
So Im satisfied L&C shouldve identified a number of the concerns Ive mentioned, and 
ought to have drawn the conclusion Ive set out, based on what was known at the time. L&C 
ought to have identified significant points of concern, which ought to have led it to conclude it should not accept the SA investment. It ought to have identified that there was a high risk of 
consumer detriment here. And its the failure of L&Cs due diligence thats resulted in Mr M 
being treated unfairly and unreasonably.
To my mind, L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the 
relevant time. I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that L&C didnt act with due skill, 
care and diligence, and it didnt treat Mr M fairly, by accepting the SA investment in his SIPP. 
Summary of what Ive decided and why
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint because L&C didnt do adequate due diligence on RealSIPP 
and because L&C didnt do adequate due diligence on the SA investment. Either of these 
failings in isolation would still have led me to conclude that L&C had done something wrong, 
that it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms business and that its fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances for this complaint to be upheld.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr Ms 
application?
In its response to Mr Ms complaint L&C said it was obliged to proceed in accordance with 
COBS 11.2.19R which obliged it to execute investment instructions. It effectively said that 
once the SIPP had been established, it was required to execute the specific instructions of 
its client. 
On this point I think its important for me to reiterate that it wasnt fair and reasonable, for 
L&C to have accepted Mr Ms applications in the first place. So in my opinion, Mr Ms SIPP 
shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to execute investment instructions 
shouldnt have arisen at all.
An argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R was 
considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which 
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is 
consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The 
text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression when executing orders 
indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order, 
and the way in which the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the 
mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey 
& Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed 
to achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being 
executed, and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding 
how best to execute the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or 
not the order should be accepted in the first place.
And I dont think that L&Cs argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under the 
Principles to decide whether to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first place or to 
make the SA investment.Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr M compensation in the circumstances?
The involvement of other parties
Ive considered the involvement of other parties in Mr Ms loss. L&C might say that RealSIPP 
and its principal, CIB, were responsible for the loss. In this decision Im considering Mr Ms 
complaint about L&C. But I accept that RealSIPP and CIB were involved in the transaction 
complained about. CIB would be the respondent for complaints about activities RealSIPP 
undertook as an appointed representative of CIB. But CIB has been dissolved and no longer 
exists as a regulated business. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award 
that award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers fair compensation for 
financial loss, whether or not a Court would award compensation (DISP 3.7.2R). As I set out 
above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold L&C 
accountable for its own failure to comply with its regulatory obligations, good industry 
practice and to treat Mr M fairly. So the starting point is that it would be fair to require L&C to 
pay Mr M compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of its failings.
In the circumstances I consider it fair and reasonable for L&C to compensate Mr M to the full 
extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs failings. I accept SA, RealSIPP and 
CIB might have some responsibility for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Ms loss. 
But Im satisfied its also the case that if L&C had complied with its own distinct regulatory 
obligations as a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr M wouldnt have come about, and 
the loss hes suffered couldve been avoided.
Mr M taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Mr M should bear responsibility for the 
loss arising from his transfer to the SIPP and his SA investment in the SIPP.
Although Mr M signed a form instructing L&C to accept a transfer of his pension and invest it 
in SA, and although the form said Mr M would manage the investment himself, L&C was still 
obligated to carry out due diligence on the investment. And its fair and reasonable to expect 
it to have acted on that obligation. In my view, for the reasons given above, if L&C had acted 
in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice it wouldnt have 
accepted applications to invest in SA and it should have stopped accepting applications from 
RealSIPP before it received Mr Ms application. So it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms SIPP 
application.
In my view, if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice it shouldnt have accepted the SA investment into its SIPPs at all and it shouldnt 
have accepted Mr Ms introduction from RealSIPP. That should have been the end of the 
matter  if that had happened, Im satisfied the arrangement for Mr M wouldnt have come 
about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered could have been avoided.
As Ive made clear, L&C needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on the SA 
investment, and the business being referred to it from RealSIPP, and reach the right 
conclusions. I think it failed to do this. And merely having Mr M sign forms containing 
declarations wasnt an effective way of L&C meeting its obligations, or of escaping liability 
where it failed to meet its obligations. 
CIB was a regulated firm with the necessary permissions to advise on the transactions this 
complaint concerns. And RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. Im satisfied 
that in his dealings with it, Mr M trusted RealSIPP to act in his best interests. Mr M also then used the services of a regulated personal pension provider in L&C. So, overall, Im satisfied 
that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say L&C should compensate 
Mr M for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to say in the circumstances that 
Mr M should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed the transactions to be effected.
Had L&C declined Mr Ms business from RealSIPP, would the transaction he 
complained about still have gone ahead elsewhere?
Ive considered whether, in the circumstances, Mr M would have gone ahead with the 
transfer and the investment if L&C had refused his application from RealSIPP and/or not 
accepted the SA investment. In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams 
wouldve proceeded with the transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
In Adams the consumer said he knew the incentive payment he received might be a breach 
of HMRC rules but he thought if he put it in his wifes account it would be okay. Ive not 
seen any evidence suggesting that Mr M was aware that receiving a sum to proceed with the 
transactions might be viewed by HMRC as a breach of its rules.
But Im satisfied that Mr M was offered an incentive payment of £10,000 to proceed with the 
transactions. Further, Mr M was having financial difficulties and I accept an incentive of that 
size could have been a motivating factor for him to go ahead with the transfer and 
investment. Mr Ms representative explained the incentive payment as follows:
[Mr M] was promised £10,000 for signing over his pension to London & Colonial and 
was told to ignore any other advice not to do so. [Mr M] feels he was vulnerable as 
he had debts and was going to use the £10,000 to pay of [sic] some of his debts. 
[Mr M] feels like he was tricked into moving his pension when it was safe where it 
was.
Mr Ms representative also told us:
Mr M  received a letter regarding the £10,000 but unfortunately no longer has this. 
It was an incentive offer and he did not receive any payment and the company was 
under investigation by the serious fraud office shortly before the payment was 
promised.
In Adams the consumer was warned that his investment was high-risk and speculative. Ive 
seen no evidence of any such warning in Mr Ms case. Also, in Adams the consumer said he 
was happy to make a high-risk, speculative investment and that he still would have made the 
investment if his SIPP provider had warned him about the nature of the investment. But its 
been submitted in this case that Mr M had no prior experience of investing, was reliant on his 
pension fund for his retirement, and that he never had any money to be adventurous. 
Overall, and having carefully considered all the submissions that have been made, Im not 
satisfied that Mr M proceeded knowing that the investment he was making was high-risk and 
speculative, and that he was determined to move forward with a high-risk and speculative 
transaction just in order to take advantage of a cash incentive.
Im also satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to say Mr Ms actions mean he should bear the loss 
arising as a result of L&Cs failings. Had L&C acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and best practice, it shouldnt have accepted the SA investment into its SIPPs at 
all and it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms introduction from RealSIPP. That shouldve been the end of the matter  and if that had happened, Im satisfied the arrangement for Mr M 
wouldnt have come about in the first place.
So in my opinion this case is very different from Adams. And having carefully considered all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused 
to accept Mr Ms application from RealSIPP and hadnt accepted the SA investment into its 
SIPPs, the transactions this complaint concerns wouldnt have gone ahead.
Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable to conclude that another SIPP operator 
wouldve accepted Mr Ms application had L&C declined it. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt compensate Mr M for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator wouldve made the same mistakes as Ive found L&C 
did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider wouldve complied with its 
regulatory obligations and acted according to good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt 
have accepted Mr Ms application from RealSIPP.
On balance, I think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Mr M compensation in the 
circumstances. While I accept that other parties might have some responsibility for initiating 
the course of action thats led to Mr Ms loss, I consider that L&C failed to comply with its 
own regulatory obligations and didnt put a stop to the transactions proceeding when it had 
the opportunity to do so by declining to accept Mr Ms business from RealSIPP or the SA 
investment in Mr Ms SIPP.
In making these findings, Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr M. In my view, in considering what fair compensation 
looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against L&C that requires it to 
compensate Mr M for the full measure of his loss. L&C accepted Mr Ms business from 
RealSIPP and it accepted the SA investment into Mr Ms SIPP and, but for L&Cs failings, 
Im satisfied that Mr Ms pension monies wouldnt have been transferred to L&C or invested 
in the SA investment. 
As such, Im not asking L&C to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter. However, that 
fact shouldnt impact on Mr Ms right to fair compensation from L&C for the full amount of his 
loss. The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Mr M wouldnt have suffered the loss 
hes suffered. As such, Im of the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances 
for L&C to compensate Mr M to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its 
failings, and notwithstanding any failings by other firms involved in the transactions.
I acknowledge that Mr M has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the 
terms of his reassignment of rights require him to return any compensation paid by the 
FSCS in the event this complaint is successful, and I understand that the FSCS will 
ordinarily enforce the terms of the assignment if required. So I will make no allowance for 
what hes been paid by the FSCS. It will be for Mr M to make the arrangements to make any 
repayments he needs to make to the FSCS.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think that in the circumstances of this case its 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude that L&C should have decided not to accept business 
from RealSIPP and/or to accept the SA investment to be held in its SIPPs before it had 
received Mr Ms application from RealSIPP. I conclude that if L&C hadnt accepted Mr Ms 
introduction from RealSIPP and/or the SA investment to be held in its SIPPs, Mr M wouldnt have established a L&C SIPP, transferred his defined benefit pension monies into it or 
invested in the SA investment. 
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgment but also 
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for L&C to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for L&Cs due diligence failings. I consider Mr M would have 
most likely remained in his occupational pension scheme if L&C hadnt accepted his 
application.
In summary, L&C must:
1. Take ownership of the SA investments if possible 
2. Calculate and pay compensation for the loss Mr Ms pension provisions have 
suffered as a result of L&C accepting his application from RealSIPP 
3. Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to act fairly 
and reasonably
Ill explain how L&C should carry out these steps in further detail below.
(1) Take ownership of the SA investments if possible 
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the SA investments 
need to be removed from Mr Ms SIPP. To do this, L&C should calculate an amount its 
willing to accept as a commercial value for Mr Ms SA investments and pay that sum into 
Mr Ms SIPP and take ownership of the SA investments. The sums paid into the SIPP to 
purchase the SA investments will then make up part of the current actual value of the SIPP. 
If L&Cs unwilling or unable to purchase the SA investments, then the actual value of any SA 
investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes of the redress 
calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value for the purposes of 
ascertaining the current value of Mr Ms SIPP. 
Provided Mr M is compensated in full then, if L&C doesnt purchase the SA investments, it 
may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment 
the SIPP may receive from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of 
any tax and charges on the amount Mr M may receive from the investments, and any 
eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. L&C will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. 
If L&C doesnt take ownership of the SA holdings, and they continue to be held in Mr Ms 
SIPP, therell then be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of the SIPP. Mr M 
wouldnt be responsible for those fees if L&C hadnt accepted his application from RealSIPP. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for L&C to waive any SIPP fees until such time as Mr M 
can dispose of the SA investments and close the SIPP.
(2) Calculate and pay compensation for the loss Mr Ms pension provisions have suffered as 
a result of L&C accepting his application from RealSIPPI said in my provisional decision that L&C should undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the regulators pension review guidance. And I said that:
Im aware that on 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on changes to 
this guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation 
closed on 27 September 2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in 
early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current methodology in 
FG17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. 
However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer 
compensation to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 during the 
consultation. But until changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of 
waiting for their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and 
guidance that may come into force after the consultation has concluded.
I think its fair for me to give Mr M the same choice.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss 
is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. And, having reviewed the FCAs 
consultation and its proposed updates to the methodology, Im satisfied that the 
proposed changes under consultation would, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a 
fair way to compensate Mr M in this case.
Therefore, if Mr M wishes to have his redress calculated in line with any new or 
updated guidance and rules, I intend to ask L&C to undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the updated methodology as soon as any new rules and/or guidance 
come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due compensation now in line 
with FG17/9). As I have set out above, it is not certain when any updated rules and 
guidance will come into effect, but the FCA has said that it expects this will be in 
early 2023.
As noted above, the FCA has stated that the aim of any updated guidance and rules 
would remain the same as in FG17/9, which is to put consumers in the position they 
would be in if they had remained in their DB scheme (recognising actual 
reinstatement into the former scheme might not be possible).
I asked Mr M to let me know whether hed wish for redress to be calculated in line with the 
guidance in FG17/9 or in line with any new rules or guidance that were expected to come 
into force in early 2023. Further, I also went on to explain that if this complaint wasnt settled 
by the time any new guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect L&C to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules. The updated rules came into effect in April 2023. 
So, as indicated in my provisional decision, I expect L&C to undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the updated methodology now the new rules and guidance have come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for L&C to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position hed now be in if it hadnt accepted his application from RealSIPP. As explained 
above, had this occurred I consider its more likely than not Mr M would have remained in his 
defined benefit pension scheme.L&C must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, L&C should:
always calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested 
prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used 
in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to 
augment his defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be 
augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts L&Cs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be 
augmented, given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax 
position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, L&C may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that Mr M would otherwise pay on income from his pension. It's 
reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
(3) Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their failure to act fairly and 
reasonably
Mr M transferred his pension away from a valuable defined benefits pension to a SIPP and 
had to suffer the loss of those benefits.
I think its fair to say this would have caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. He will 
clearly have been worried that his retirement provision will have been reduced. So, I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.
The award limitWhere I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I do not know what award the above calculation might produce. So, whilst I acknowledge 
that the value of Mr Ms original investment was within our award limit, for completeness I 
have included information below about what ought to happen if fair compensation amounted 
to more than our award limit.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against London & 
Colonial Services Limited.
Determination and money award: I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require London and 
Colonial Services Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that 
London and Colonial Services Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the award becomes binding on London and Colonial Services 
Limited.
My recommendation is not binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance after the money award has been paid. Mr M may want 
to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman