DRN-4038129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that overpayments they have made for over ten years, on their 
mortgage with Skipton Building Society, havent reduced the term of their mortgage. They 
are still paying now, but thought the mortgage should have been paid off years ago.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Skipton in May 2004, with a 19 year term. They sent 
our service the letter from 2009, when Mr W asked to add an overpayment of £80 each 
month to their payment. Since then, they have been overpaying at a consistent rate of £80 
per month. They anticipated this would mean their mortgage finished some years earlier 
than the original 19 year term, but when they contacted Skipton about this recently, Skipton 
said that wasnt right.
Skipton said Mr and Mrs W had indeed been paying £80 more than their contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) each month since 2009, but it said this money wasnt used to reduce the 
term of their mortgage. Instead, each time the interest rate changed on their variable rate 
mortgage, their CMP was recalculated, based on what they still owed (and £80 was then 
added back on top, to continue the overpayment). So the overpayments they had made 
reduced their monthly payment, not the term of the mortgage. 
Skipton said this is how it treats overpayments. If someone wants to make a formal reduction 
to their mortgage term, then Skipton has to check if thats affordable for them, so it asks 
customers to have an interview with a mortgage advisor. Mr and Mrs W had never done that, 
or told Skipton that what they wanted to achieve from their overpayments was to reduce the 
term. So Skipton didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said Skipton wasnt maintaining the original term of their 
mortgage, because it had confirmed they were going to pay that mortgage off some months 
earlier than expected. They felt Skipton had just absorbed their overpayment into their CMP.
Skipton confirmed that it hadnt absorbed the monthly overpayment, and drew their attention 
to the last interest rate change, where their new CMP had been set out for them. Their new 
monthly payment was also set out there, it was £80 more than the CMP. 
Skipton also said it recalculated this mortgage each time the rate changed, and when it did 
that, it worked this out on the basis of the original term. So when Skipton said Mr and Mrs W 
would repay a few months early, that would only happen if the interest rates didnt change in 
this time. 
Skipton still didnt think it had done anything wrong. But Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They 
thought they were due a refund, and they wanted our service to look into this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Skipton had explained 
that regular overpayments can informally reduce the term of the mortgage as theyre 
reducing the balance. But when a new rate is applied, the CMP is then recalculated to 
ensure that the balance is repaid within the original term of the mortgage which is stated in 
the mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs W were on a variable rate, so each time the rate changed, 
their CMP was recalculated.
Our investigator said Skipton had set out what someone needed to do if they wanted to 
reduce the term of their mortgage. But she said there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs W 
had gone through that process, or that they had told Skipton they wanted to reduce the term 
of their mortgage.
Our investigator said Skipton had applied the overpayments in line with the mortgage terms 
and conditions, so she wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They still thought Skipton had amalgamated their overpayment 
with their CMP, so even if they asked to stop the £80 overpayment, the monthly payment 
wouldnt change. They still felt this mortgage should have ended two or three years ago. Mr 
and Mrs W thought Skipton had acted to prolong their mortgage, and with the increase in 
interest rates, they said what had happened was an injustice. Mr and Mrs W wanted this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr and Mrs W have been overpaying since 2009. Skipton says it has never amalgamated 
their overpayment into their CMP. It says what they are paying every month is their CMP 
plus £80. They only have to pay their CMP every month. Mr W has shown us a notification of 
changed interest rates that Skipton sent to them on 6 November 2022, which shows their 
CMP (Skipton calls this New Payment) but their monthly payment (the Arrangement 
Amount) is then £80 more than this. 
So I think Skipton has done what it said. And that means if Mr and Mrs W do want to stop 
this overpayment, I think Skipton would reduce their monthly payments by £80 per month for 
them.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how their overpayment has been used. They say it should 
have been used to reduce the term of the mortgage, and because it hasnt had that effect, 
they think Skipton hasnt properly used the several thousand pounds of overpayment. They 
say theyve had no benefit from this. But I dont think thats right. 
When Skipton lent Mr and Mrs W money, back in 2004, it worked out how much they would 
need to pay each month, to repay the whole lending by 2023. Thats their CMP. But then Mr 
and Mrs W started their overpayments. And the amount they owed started to reduce faster 
than Skipton had planned for, at the very start of the mortgage. 
If there had never been an interest rate change on their mortgage, Mr and Mrs W would 
have paid off their mortgage much faster. However, when the interest rate on their mortgage 
changed, Skipton needed to work out again how much Mr and Mrs W had to pay each 
month, to clear the debt by 2023. And to do that, Skipton didnt base this on a notional 
amount which it had originally thought Mr and Mrs W would have outstanding by the time of 
the rate change. It based this on the amount they actually had outstanding. So this recalculation took into account the overpayments they had made, and worked out their new 
monthly payment based on that. 
This has meant, each time their interest rate changed, their CMP  the amount theyre 
actually obliged to pay each month  was a little lower than it otherwise would have been, 
because of their overpayments. And that effect, of reducing their CMP, is cumulative. So 
theres a little more of a reduction each time the interest rate changes. 
The notification of an interest rate change sent on 6 November 2022 provides an example of 
this. Skipton was writing to Mr and Mrs W then to say interest rates had gone up. Their 
previous monthly payment was £109.56. Mr W tells us he was paying £189.56, which is £80 
more, so his previous payment had been the CMP plus his overpayment. With the small rise 
in interest rates mentioned in this letter, we might expect a small rise in this monthly 
payment. But Skipton did a complete recalculation of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage at this point, 
and their monthly payment actually went down a little. 
Im satisfied that what Skipton has done here is reasonable. And, importantly, Im also 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs W hadnt actually asked Skipton to do anything different to this. I 
realise this was a misunderstanding, and Mr and Mrs W would have asked Skipton to 
shorten the term if theyd realised that wasnt happening automatically. But I dont think that 
misunderstanding is Skiptons fault, and it has been sending them regular statements which 
confirm when their mortgage will end.
Mr and Mrs W said that couldnt be right, because Skipton said that if there were no more 
interest rate changes, then they would pay off the mortgage a few months earlier than 
planned. But I think that fits with the above  between interest rate changes, Mr and Mrs Ws 
overpayments have the effect of reducing what they owe, faster than Skiptons planned 
repayment schedule. Then, when an interest rate change happens, Skipton works that 
schedule out again, and once again, Mr and Mrs Ws CMP is a little lower, because of their 
overpayments, than it would otherwise have been.
I know Mr and Mrs W think their money has been wasted, but I dont think it has. I think they 
have seen a benefit  lower payments each month. Although I know this wasnt the benefit 
they originally wanted, Ive explained why I dont think thats Skiptons fault. And Mr and Mrs 
W can be confident that they have got something for the money they paid
So, in all the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Skipton to return the overpayment to Mr and Mrs W now, because this money has been 
used to repay their mortgage.
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman