DRN-3479731
The complaint
Mr C, Miss I1 and Miss I2 complain that Hinckley and Rugby Building Society collected a full 
months mortgage payment soon after they took out their mortgage.
What happened
On 31 August 2021, Mr C, Miss I1 and Miss I2 completed a mortgage with Hinckley and 
Rugby. The first payment was due on 8 September. They said they expected to pay eight 
days interest  but Hinckley and Rugby charged a full months interest. Mr C, Miss I1 and 
Miss I2 consider that Hinckley and Rugby had acted unfairly in applying interest in advance.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C, Miss I1 and Miss I2 didnt accept what the investigator said. They said that investigator 
was wrong to say they werent paying interest in advance. They objected to having to pay a 
full months interest after only having the mortgage for around a week  they should have 
only had to pay the interest that had accrued at that point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant see that Hinckley and Rugby have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of this case. I say that because it has explained that it applies interest each 
month. It is the borrowers choice on what day the payment is collected each month. It said 
that Mr C, Miss I1 and Miss I2 elected to have the payment collected on the 8th of the month.
On 9 August 2021, Hinckley and Rugby wrote to Mr C, Miss I1 and Miss I2. The letter said 
as relevant:
Methods of Calculating Interest on Mortgages 
If your chosen mortgage product states that interest is charged on a daily basis, interest will be 
calculated from the date of the Loan through to the end of the month of the release of the Loan. At the 
end of the month in which the Loan is released, the mortgage account will be debited with this first 
month's interest. Thereafter, interest is calculated for each day the Loan is outstanding, based on the 
account balance on that day, and the account is debited at the end of each month with the accrued 
daily interest for that month.
I accept that perhaps that could be worded in a more accessible way. But it looks like Hinckley and 
Rugby has done what it said it would do and that was confirmed in the letter dated 2 September 2021.
In any event, I cant see that Mr C, Miss I1 and Miss I2 have suffered any financial loss by 
making the payment earlier in the month. They were charged interest daily. So by paying 
sooner it will have reduced the amount of interest they paid overall.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Miss I and 
Miss I to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman