DRN-4520238
The complaint
Mr M complains about a car supplied to him on finance by 247 Money Group Limited (MG).
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties here so I wont be outlining these in 
detail  instead I will summarise matters and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr M was supplied a car on hire purchase by MG. However, he us unhappy with its quality  
in particular an issue with the car losing power. He wants to reject it.
Mr M complained to MG which initially responded to say that a repair was an option but there 
was a lack of evidence showing what the problem is.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and considered it fair and reasonable for MG to take 
back the car, end the finance agreement and pay compensation to Mr M.
MG agreed with the outcome but Mr M did not. In summary he says that:
 the car had a sharp edge on the steering wheel that caused injury;
 he lost his job as he didnt have a car and was late for work due to relying on public 
transport; and
 MG did not support him when things went wrong with the car.
Since the investigators view things have moved on  Mr M has claimed he paid a deposit for 
the car that he is due back and he has also informed this service that MG has now taken the 
car back and ended the agreement. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the parties have produced a lot of information I have focused on the evidence I 
consider central to this complaint. This is not intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role 
resolving disputes informally.
I have considered relevant law and good practice when coming to my decision here. Mr M 
has recently raised some materials about the FCA Consumer Duty. While this will be 
relevant to MG going forward it doesnt relate to Mr Ms complaint because it wasnt in force 
at the time of the acts he is complaining about (the supply of the car and the subsequent 
response of MG to the quality issues identified). That is not to say Mr M would not have 
expected MG to have treated him fairly in accordance with the FCA Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC) in any event.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MG is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says 
that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
MG supplied Mr M with a second-hand car in August 2022. Here I note the car had travelled 
around 49,800 miles at the point of supply and was several years old.  So it is fair to say that 
the reasonable person would accept that it is likely to require more repairs and maintenance 
than a newer, less road worn car. The price agreed for the car was £12,399 which would be 
much less than the new price but is not an insignificant amount of money for a car.
While the car is second-hand there is still a reasonable expectation around quality and 
durability particularly with major components like the engine. From what I understand MG 
agree that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time of sale and agreed to take it 
back. 
As MG has agreed to take the car back I do not consider it necessary to analyse at length 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. In brief, I agree this does not 
appear to be an unreasonable conclusion in the circumstances. I can see the car was having 
issues with occasional loss of power (seemingly related to the engine management) very 
soon after supply. Mr M has provided credible evidence of the engine management lights 
and issues he was having within the first 3 months of having the car including a description 
of when the car (apparently first) went into limp mode on 5 November 2022 and showed a 
warning on the dash saying Engine Fault: Repair Needed. It appears Mr M also first 
reported an issue with warning lights on the dashboard to the dealer within the first few 
weeks of supply too. So overall it appears the goods were not of satisfactory quality due to a 
very early issue with what appears to be the engine. 
What is left to decide here is appropriate redress. There is a question as to whether repair 
would have been a fair remedy. However, there is an argument as to whether rejection was 
more appropriate. I note when the power loss issue occurred on the highway in November 
2022 this was in the context of a previous warning light being identified in the first 30 days of 
ownership. I can see Mr M arranged a diagnostic at the time (which he says the dealer 
requested). When the engine issues developed further rather than offer to take the car in it 
appears the dealer asked for Mr M to be put to further inconvenience in arranging another 
diagnostic report and visit third party garages. In any event, I note repair is not possible now 
in any case because the car has been taken back and agreement ended.  So I have 
considered what is fair redress now in light of what is effectively the remedy of rejection.
As MG has confirmed the car has been taken back and the agreement ended I will not be 
directing MG to do this. I also note that MG has confirmed there is no adverse information on Mr Ms credit file as a result of the agreement so I wont be making any direction on this 
either. 
I note Mr M has said he paid the dealer a deposit and traded in a part exchange car. It 
appears he did, however, I note the evidence shows this was used to pay off negative equity 
he owed on a previous finance agreement  so I dont think Mr M is owed anything back in 
that respect. In fact it appears that any deposit and part exchange value did not fully cover 
the previous finance agreement so the new finance agreement actually covered £12,990 for 
the cash price of the supplied car and an additional amount of £649 for the remaining 
negative equity. Meaning the total balance financed was £13,639. I have taken this into 
account in my redress below.
Mr Ms usage of the car was impaired by the issues with it losing power. I think he should be 
compensated for this. However, I am not entirely persuaded he stopped using the car 
completely when the problems came to a head in November 2022 - as of June 2023 he had 
travelled around 10,500 miles since it was acquired, with around 3,000 miles travelled since 
the significant power issues were identified in November 2022. Because of this I cant fairly 
say Mr M is entitled to all his payments back from this time onward.
However, I think it is clear Mr Ms use of the car has been impaired by the issue. He has 
described how the car lost power on the highway in November 2022 which scared him as he 
said it almost caused a collision. I note since then Mr M has produced evidence of continued 
error messages related to the engine management even if the car was somewhat drivable. 
He has also described how he has had to use public transport to get to work. 
The investigator has suggested Mr M is refunded 20% of his payments since the issues with 
loss of power in November 2022 which appears to be when the problems first had a notable 
impact on his use of the car. Working out Mr Ms impaired use is not a science here but I 
think the impairment is more significant than 20%. Mr M did travel about 3,000 miles after 
November 2022 to when he gave a more recent odometer reading but that was over 7 
months - which appears below average. Furthermore, he has described how he wasnt 
always able to use the car. And it appears even when he was using it there were 
understandable nerves about the ongoing issues. So I think Mr M should fairly get back 40% 
of the payments he made from 5 November 2022 onwards.
However, I think it also reasonable that MG deduct the following from any redress of monthly 
payments due back to Mr M:
any arrears of the months the car was in his possession before it was returned to MG 
(if any); and 
the £649 which MG paid towards his old finance agreement.
Mr M has explained that he lost his job and attributes this to problems with the car. I am 
sorry to hear about this but I have considered the question of causation here in determining 
what is fair to hold MG responsible for. Overall, I think:
what Mr M is claiming is too remote a consequence to be a reasonable loss;
in any event Mr M could have reasonably mitigated the situation to help him arrive on 
time to work; and  
in any event I think that there are likely to be other variables at play that make it 
difficult to conclude that Mr M lost his job solely because of the actions of MG in 
supplying a car that was not of satisfactory quality.Despite this I can see Mr M has been caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by what 
occurred here. There is an argument that he could have mitigated the situation to a degree 
as from what I can see he was offered some assistance later on and the prospect of repairs. 
But then I also note that at an early stage the onus appeared to be on him to get further 
diagnostics which would have been frustrating. Overall, I think it fair that MG pay Mr M £200 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience he had in trying to get a resolution 
here.
Mr M has said he paid out to fix certain defects but he hasnt persuasively evidenced this. I 
note that he appears to have commissioned a £40 diagnostic report in September 2022 but I 
understand the dealer paid for that one so I wont be making a direction in that respect.
Mr M says his wife cut her hands on sharp edges on the steering wheel. I am sorry to hear 
this but there isnt a lot of information that persuasively shows the steering wheel was sold in 
a dangerous condition. Furthermore, and in any event I cant make awards in respect of third 
parties here  it is Mr M which is the eligible complainant. Mr M appears more recently to 
have indicated he cut his hands on the steering wheel  but overall there isnt enough for me 
to say it is fair that he is compensated for this by MG.
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint and direct 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247 Money to:
refund Mr M 40% of the monthly payments he made covering the period from 5 
November 2022 until when the car was taken back this year (after deducting any 
arrears he owes for this period and the £649 it paid toward his previous finance 
agreement);
add out of pocket interest to the refunds calculated at 8% simple yearly from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement; and
pay Mr M £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
issues with the car.
If MG considers it necessary to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Mr M 
with a certificate of tax deduction.
I asked the parties for their comments. MG did not comment.
Mr M agrees with the decision but maintains that he is owed money back from his cash 
contribution to the purchase. He says that he paid £999 in cash in several separate 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr M has maintained that he put cash and a car towards the deposit and is owed 
money for that. However, MG has provided information that is persuasive in showing that he 
had a significant amount outstanding on his previous finance (£4,722.37) that this all went to 
pay for as £672.87 cash and a part exchange valued at £3,400 (with the remainder put on the finance). Mr M said he actually contributed £999 in this case  but I dont find the invoice 
with the annotations he has submitted to be persuasive evidence of this. So I am not minded 
to alter my redress here.
Overall, the parties have not given me reason to change my provisional findings so my final 
decision is the same as said findings (as copied above).
Putting things right
MG should put things right as detailed below for the reasons as set out here and 
incorporating my provisional findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247 Money to:
 refund Mr M 40% of the monthly payments he made covering the period from 5 
November 2022 until when the car was taken back this year (after deducting any 
arrears he owes for this period and the £649 it paid toward his previous finance 
agreement);
 add out of pocket interest to the refunds calculated at 8% simple yearly from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement; and
 pay Mr M £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
issues with the car.
If MG considers it necessary to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Mr M 
with a certificate of tax deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman