DRN-2718786
The complaint
Miss B has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) damaged her cars engine when 
recovering it following a claim on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.  
What happened
Miss B's bag, with her car keys in it, was stolen from her boyfriends car. Miss B contacted 
UKI as she was concerned the thieves might steal her car. UKI arranged for it to be taken to 
a garage and new keys recoded. After that was done the car wouldn't start. The cars 
manufacturer said this was likely a timing chain issue. UKIs said the issue wasn't related to 
the repair and so wasnt covered by her policy. Miss B complained. UKI acknowledged that 
some of its service could have been better and it paid Miss B £75 compensation for the 
impact of that. But it didn't think it needed to cover the cost of repairs to Miss Bs car.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. After shed done so she instructed another garage to 
inspect her car. It gave her a report which implied the timing chain fault had most likely 
happened when the car was loaded on to the recovery truck and taken to UKIs garage. The 
cars manufacturer also confirmed that was the probable cause of the timing chain issue. 
UKI didn't believe that was the case. 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extract below. I said:
!Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss Bs raised a number of points. But in this decision I don't 
intend to address every point raised, instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
How was the car loaded onto the recovery truck? 
Miss Bs said that at the time her keys were stolen her car was parked facing forwards in a 
brick carport. She said the handbrake was on and the car was in gear. Miss B was there 
when the recovery operator came to collect her car. She said he lifted its rear and dragged 
the car out of the carport and onto his truck. And as Miss Bs car is front wheel drive and was 
in gear, the front wheels didn't turn when it was pulled onto the truck. She thinks it was this 
action that caused her timing chain to fail. In contrast the recovery operator said he had 
loaded the car with a full lift and that the hand brake was on but only slightly as car rolled 
so believe it had not been in gear.
I'm faced with two different versions of events: Miss Bs said the car was in gear and its 
wheels didn't turn when loaded onto the truck; the recovery operator said they did. And 
where Im faced with two different versions of events I need to decide which evidence I think 
carries more weight. And having thought about this very carefully Im persuaded by Miss Bs 
evidence. Thats because Miss Bs told us that she always leaves her car with the handbrake 
on and in a forward gear having driven it into the carport. And I've seen nothing that 
persuades me that her statement can't be relied on. I've noted the recovery operator said 
that the wheels turned but the handbrake was on. So it seems likely hes noticed some 
resistance when loading the car onto the truck. And, given Miss Bs evidence that she 
always leaves the car in gear and with the handbrake on, I think those things were the 
probable cause of that resistance. So I'm satisfied the car was loaded onto the truck in the 
manner Miss B described.
What was the likely cause of the engine damage?
I'm aware that timing chains do occasionally fail, sometimes far earlier than could be 
expected for a component which is supposed to last the lifetime of a car. And that such 
failures can happen without an obvious cause.
UKIs garage said that as the car arrived without keys they didn't know if it was running 
before the recovery operator collected it. But I've noted that Miss Bs car only passed its 
MOT around a week before the keys were stolen. So the engine was clearly running then. 
And shed travelled around a further 53 miles between the MOT and the theft. So shed 
clearly been using the car in the week before the claim. Also I note that a breakdown 
company, which had initially attended to see if it could help, said that Miss B told them she 
would arrange for another car to be parked across the entrance to her carport, to prevent her 
car from being stolen from it. And, if the car wasn't running, she wouldn't have needed to do 
that. So I'm satisfied it was running before the theft.
That said I accept that the timing chain failure could have been caused by something other 
than the recovery and that it could have been a coincidence that it failed at the point when it 
was being repaired. However, I've seen that Miss Bs garage said the majority of timing 
chain failures are caused by cars rolling or being towed backwards while in a forward gear. 
And the garages engineer concluded that the timing chain was most likely damaged while 
the engine wasn't running. In other words the engineer said the timing chain failure was 
consistent with having been pulled backwards while in a forward gear. And thats most likely 
to have happened when it was recovered.
Further, I've seen evidence from the cars manufacturer which said that, having discussed 
the matter with a senior technician, it was highly probable that the damage had been 
caused by the recovery method Miss B had described. In contrast I've noted UKIs garage 
also spoke with the manufacturer who apparently told them the timing chain failures can just 
happen and aren't caused by the car being dragged. But its not clear whether it was a 
technician or someone else who advised this. And given that I've seen two other pieces of 
evidence, one provided by a senior technician and the other by a garage whod actually 
examined the engine, that the method of loading the car onto the truck is most likely to have 
caused the engine failure, I think that evidence carries more weight. So, as Miss Bs timing 
chain failed at the point that it was put onto a recovery truck backwards while in a forward 
gear Im persuaded, on balance, that the engine failure happened when the car was loaded 
onto the recovery truck.
Putting things right
Given that I think it was UKI's actions that caused the engine failure I think it's fair that it pays 
the costs of repairing that. Miss B had previously shown us an estimate for the cost of repair. 
But I don't know whether or not shes actually had the car repaired. If shes already had her 
car repaired, on receipt of the appropriate evidence, UKI should reimburse her for the 
amounts shes already paid. It should add simple interest to that payment as set out below.If Miss B hasn't yet had her car repaired then UKI should either arrange repairs or  if 
appropriate - deal with the claim on a total loss basis at the date of the theft. If UKI decides 
the car is a total loss it should add simple interest to its claim settlement, as set out below. 
Also, if Miss Bs garage who diagnosed the cause of the engine failure charged Miss B for 
that diagnosis then, on receipt of appropriate evidence, UKI should reimburse Miss B the 
cost of that diagnosis and add simple interest to its reimbursement, as set out below.
Further Miss B was unfairly left without the use of her car and put to considerable trouble to 
prove that UKI should settle her claim for the damaged engine. And to address her distress 
and inconvenience because of that I think UKI should pay her a further £500 compensation.
Developments
Miss B accepted my provisional decision. She told us shed had her car repaired in 
August 2020 and would be able to submit evidence of this to UKI.
Miss B also raised a further complaint about the quality of the keys UKI had supplied. We 
explained to Miss B that as this was a new issue that UKI hadn't had the chance to address, 
I wouldn't make any finding on it in this decision.
UKI didn't reply to my provisional decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither UKI nor Miss B objected to my provisional decision I see no reasons to change it. 
Miss B has confirmed that shes had her car repaired so, to put things right, UKI should 
reimburse her as set out below.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. On receipt of appropriate evidence I 
require U K Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Miss B the amount she paid to have her car repaired in August 2020 
following her claim for stolen keys. UKI should add simple interest to that sum at a 
rate of 8% a year from the date she paid it to the date it reimburses her1.
If the garage who diagnosed the cause of the engine failure charged Miss B for that 
diagnosis then, on receipt of appropriate evidence, UKI should reimburse Miss B the 
cost of that diagnosis. It should add simple interest to its reimbursement sum at a 
rate of 8% a year from the date she paid it to the date it reimburses her.
Pay Miss B £500 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience. It should 
pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Miss B has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also add interest to that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
 
1 If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman