DRN-1928294
The complaint
Mrs J says CIS General Insurance Limited shouldnt have charged a fee when she had to 
make a premium payment for her motor insurance policy other than by the usual direct debit 
method. Mrs J is represented by her husband, Mr J, a named driver on the policy.
What happened
In November 2019, the policys monthly direct debit payment was declined by the bank. 
When Mr J called CIS to make the payment by card, an advisor told him there was a late 
payment charge of £12.50. Mr J said that charge wasnt set out in the credit agreement with 
CIS. The next day a manager spoke to Mr J and explained that the charge was in fact an 
administration fee. Mr J complained that it wasnt  fair to make any charge for making a late 
payment, but CIS didnt uphold his complaint. 
 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He said the credit agreement 
provided for an administrative charge to be made if payment was made in a way other than 
through the direct debit plan that had been set up. He said that was standard term in similar 
credit agreements, to cover extra costs incurred by the insurer. He said we thought the 
charge was fair if it was clear and notified in advance, as in this case. The investigator didnt 
think CIS was required to have a charge-free way for consumers to make late payments. 
Mr J said the credit agreement said CIS may charge an administrative fee but didnt say in 
which circumstances a charge wouldnt be made. He thought it should say a charge will be 
made. He wanted CIS to change its process, retrain its staff and refund the charge. The 
investigator pointed out that were not the industry regulator, so we cant instruct CIS to 
change its processes. He thought it was reasonable for CIS to make the £12.50 charge.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In agreeing to make direct debit payments under a credit agreement, Mrs J signed up to the 
terms of that agreement. One of the terms was that a £12.50 administrative charge would be 
made if a direct debit payment was missed. I think it was reasonable for CIS to rely on that 
term. A similar term is standard in similar agreements set up by other businesses, because if 
a consumer departs from the agreed process, it means extra work is needed to correct that. 
In Mrs Js case, she had to be notified of the missed payment and CIS had to deal with the 
call from Mr J to pay the late premium. No extra tasks would have been necessary had the 
direct debit been paid in line with the credit agreement. CISs advisor made a minor error in 
referring to a late payment fee, and that involved some extra time and effort on Mr Js part, 
as he had to speak to a manager about it the next day. But it all flowed from the missed 
payment from Mrs Js account. 
As Mrs J had agreed to the terms of the credit agreement, I think it was reasonable for CIS 
to rely on them, and to make a £12.50 charge when the agreement was breached. I dont 
think the charge was excessive, given that CIS had to carry out extra tasks to put matters 
right. Mr J also put in some time and effort to resolve the issue, but that could have been 
avoided had the payment been made on time. Its also the case that Mrs J could have 
avoided any chance of an administrative charge being made had she paid for the policy in 
full. She could also have tried to find an insurer that didnt charge an administrative fee for a 
late payment on a credit agreement  although I think she may have struggled to do that. 
I think CIS has explained why the credit agreement says an administrative charge may be 
made for a late payment, not that it will be made. CIS recognised that in some cases, 
making a charge may not be fair  for example, if an error on CISs part leads to a late 
payment. I think thats reasonable. 
As the investigator explained to Mr J, we arent the industry regulator, and we cant instruct 
CIS what processes to put in place. In this case, Mr J would like us to require it to set up a 
charge-free way of paying for late premiums. We cant do that, and we arent able to instruct 
CIS about how to train its advisors, either. All we can do is to review the circumstances of 
Mrs Js complaint and decide whether CIS acted reasonably. 
In my opinion, it was fair for CIS to make an administrative charge for the late payment, in 
line with the credit agreement  and CIS corrected the advisors error quickly. I dont think it 
had any impact on Mrs J, and the impact on Mr J was minimal, in my opinion. That means I 
dont think CIS should be required to pay any compensation for inconvenience, or that it 
should have to refund the administrative charge. 
As I dont think CIS acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Mrs Js complaint. It remains open to 
her or Mr J to contact the industry regular (the Financial Conduct Authority) if they wish. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman