DRN-3174320
The complaint
Mrs W complains that esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) 
mis-handled a claim made on her car insurance policy.   
What happened
In September 2020, Mrs W was involved in a collision which she says wasnt her fault. She 
states that she was waiting to turn right in the road and as she turned, a car came up beside 
her and collided with her car. 
Mrs W reported the collision to her insurer, esure, and it promptly repaired her car. Weeks 
later, when she didnt hear anything further about the claim and when her excess would be 
returned, Mrs W chased esure for an update. Nearly two months after the incident, esure 
informed her it had settled the claim on a fault basis, meaning the excess would remain 
payable. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this decision and complained to esure that it didnt do a thorough 
enough investigation into the liability of the collision. She also complained about the lack of 
communication while the claim was ongoing. 
esure said it had considered the available evidence before settling the claim the way it did. It 
said it didnt believe it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think esure had 
done a thorough enough investigation into the liability of the claim and recommended it to 
obtain a legal opinion. He also found that esure hadnt kept Mrs W reasonably informed 
during the claims process which caused her additional stress. So, he thought esure should 
pay £150 to compensate her for this.
Mrs W accepted the investigators findings but esure accepted it in part. It agreed its 
communication was poor, so it agreed to pay the compensation. But it disagreed it needed to 
obtain legal advice in this instance. esure said its claims team had the necessary experience 
to make liability decisions without obtaining legal advice every time, and here it would be 
difficult to hold the other party at fault given that Mrs W didnt fully check her surroundings 
before making the manoeuvre. 
I issued a provisional decision a couple of weeks ago. I explained I didnt intend on 
instructing esure to do anything more for Mrs W in respect to how it settled the claim. But I 
thought it should still pay £150 compensation to Mrs W in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced.
I invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Mrs W didnt provide anything further for me to consider. 
esure accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide further comments. 
What follows is my provisional decision made final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised the background and arguments above, so not everything that 
happened is detailed, Id like to reassure Mrs W and esure that Ive read and considered 
everything in its entirety.
I can understand Mrs Ws frustrations with being held liable for a collision she says wasnt 
her fault. But its important to mention it isnt my role to determine who was liable for the 
collision; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether esure has 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws policy in deciding how to settle 
matters and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
The starting point is the agreement between Mrs W and esure  the policy terms and 
conditions. These include a provision which entitles esure to take over and deal with a claim, 
including the settlement of it. esure can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it  or it 
can decide whether its prepared to defend Mrs W if the matter went to court. Similar 
provisions are found in motor policies Ive seen, and I dont find the terms unusual or 
surprising. 
Court proceedings can be expensive, and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will 
consider the costs involved and the likelihood of success in making these decisions. That 
might mean esure makes a decision Mrs W disagrees with, as has happened here. But the 
terms and conditions of the policy allow esure to make such a decision. Any such decision 
must still be reasonable in the circumstances of the claim.
I know Mrs W feels strongly that she isnt at fault for the collision. But both parties have said 
the other is at fault. Ultimately esure made a commercial decision not to challenge liability as 
it believed there were no real prospects of success. It based this decision on the evidence 
and statements it obtained from Mrs W and from the other party as well a witness. In 
response to the investigators assessment, esure also said that it didnt consider legal advice 
was necessary here as Mrs W didnt check for traffic behind her before proceeding to turn 
right. It thought if the matter went to court, even in the best-case scenario, it was likely that a 
judge would say both parties were responsible for the collision.  
Ive carefully considered the available information. I note there are discrepancies in each 
partys version of events of what happened. Looking at the diagrams and maps provided, the 
location of where the collision occurred appears to differ by around 200 feet. And while 
Mrs W says she was indicating right as she waited on the road to make a turn, the other 
party states that Mrs W was indicating left and pulled out as they were following a moving 
line of traffic in passing Mrs Ws stationary car. 
Notwithstanding the discrepancies Ive noted above, or what esure has said about the 
credibility of the statement provided by a witness, its not in dispute that Mrs W started 
manoeuvring to the right from a stationary position. In her incident statement, Mrs W has 
said she was looking ahead for oncoming traffic and wasnt expecting a car to overtake her. 
The highway code states drivers should check that the road is clear  including using mirrors 
to know whats behind and looking around for blind spots  before moving. I dont think it 
was inherently wrong or unfair of esure to have thought it would be difficult for it to defend 
Mrs W had it taken the matter to court. And given what shes said in her statement about 
looking ahead, nor do I consider it unreasonable that esure decided it didnt require a legal 
opinion on liability.The crux of Mrs Ws complaint is that the incident has been recorded as fault claim and 
esure hasnt refunded her the excess. Even if liability was split, it wouldnt have a practical 
impact on how the claim is recorded. A claim settled on a 50/50 basis is still recorded as 
fault. This is because the insurer hasnt recovered all its costs. And excess remains payable 
where a claim is recorded as fault. 
So, all in all, Im not persuaded that esure has overlooked key information. I think its done a 
thorough enough investigation into the liability. Im also satisfied esure has settled the claim 
in a way that leaves it open for Mrs W to still challenge liability in court if she wishes to.  
In summary, I wont be asking esure to do anything more for Mrs W in respect to how it 
settled the claim. I do, however, consider it needs to pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Mrs W by not keeping her updated on her claim. esure's system 
notes show it recognised itself that it hadnt updated her on its decision and hadnt replied to 
an update request. I consider £150 that the investigators recommended fairly recognises its 
customer service failings.   
Putting things right
To resolve Mrs Ws complaint, esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels should 
pay her £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result 
of poor communication.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require esure 
Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels to put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman