DRN-3360804
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains that Aldermore Bank Plc unfairly delayed sending an 
Additional Permitted Subscription (APS) certificate.
 
What happened
The late Mrs B held ISA accounts with Aldermore. Mrs B passed away in June 2019. In 
August 2020 Aldermore received a Grant of Probate for the estate of Mrs B naming Mr B as 
the executor. 
In September 2020 Mr B sent Aldermore a copy of their marriage certificate. In October 2020 
Aldermore another ISA provider (L) contacted Aldermore and asked for information about 
the latte Mrs Bs ISAs to make arrangements for a transfer. Aldermore says the covering 
letter wasnt signed but the ISA transfer form was. Aldermore has confirmed it couldve 
proceeded using the ISA form but said it needed a signed covering letter. 
During a follow up call around 10 days later Aldermore incorrectly told L it needed a 
marriage certificate. Mr B later spoke with Aldermore and was incorrectly told the marriage 
certificate remained outstanding. 
Around a week later, in November 2020, L called Aldermore and was again told a marriage 
certificate remained outstanding. The APS certificate was issued to L on 17 November 2020 
and the ISA funds transferred out. 
Mr B complained about the service provided and delays releasing funds from the estate of 
Mrs B. Mr B has explained that he intended to invest the funds in his own name and lost out 
by around £3,000 as a result of Aldermores delays. Aldermore upheld Mr Bs complaint and 
sent him a cheque for £150 to apologise for the trouble and upset caused. But Aldermore 
didnt offer to cover Mr Bs losses. 
Mr B referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
that the customer in this case is the estate of Mrs B which meant we couldnt compensate 
Mr B for any losses he may have incurred. Mr B asked to appeal and explained he believes 
he fulfils the requirements as a customer of Aldermore and that it should be responsible for 
his losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances under which Mr B brings this 
complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs B. I can understand why Mr B is particularly upset 
that there were unnecessary delays transferring funds out of the estate of Mrs B. I agree 
there were unnecessary delays in this case and that the service provided was poor at times. 
Aldermore repeatedly asked for a signed cover letter from Ls case handler but has 
confirmed it shouldve proceeded on receipt of signed ISA transfer documents. In addition, 
Aldermore repeatedly said it needed a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs marriage certificate despite 
already having it on file. Its clear avoidable errors were made. 
Whilst I can understand the strength of Mr Bs feeling in this matter, I have to explain our 
approach to compensation and how it impacts this complaint. In this case, Mr B is acting in 
his role as executor for the estate of Mrs B. And its the estate of Mrs B that is the customer 
of Aldermore in terms of the complaint weve been asked to consider. Thats because the 
accounts Mr B has asked us to consider a complaint about formed part of the estate of 
Mrs B. 
I have read everything Mr B has told us about his dealings with Aldermore and why he feels 
it should do more to resolve the matter. But we cant award compensation to someone who 
isnt an eligible complainant. And, as Ive said, the estate of Mrs B is the eligible complainant 
in this case. 
For Mr B to bring a complaint to us in his own right, hed need to be eligible to do so. There 
are various tests that set out who can bring a complaint to us and what those complaints can 
be about. In this case, Mr B is a consumer as set out in the rules. But Mr B would need to 
have a certain relationship with the business in order to be eligible to refer a complaint about 
his losses to us. The relationship that most closely matches Mr Bs circumstances would be 
customer but hes not a customer of Aldermore in relation to the accounts complained 
about. 
Here, the estate of Mrs B is the customer of Aldermore in line with the ISA accounts in 
question. We can only make an award to cover the losses of an eligible complainant and 
thats the estate of Mrs B in this case. So even accepting that there were delays that may 
have led to a financial loss for Mr B, our service cant award compensation on that basis. We 
can award compensation for any losses incurred by the estate of Mrs B. But I havent been 
told about losses to the estate of Mrs B, only Mr B. And, for the reasons Ive given above, my 
focus is on the losses incurred by the estate of Mrs B. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But as I 
havent found evidence of a financial loss to the estate of Mrs B Im unable to make an 
award. I understand Aldermore sent Mr B a cheque for £150 to apologise for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its actions. Im satisfied thats a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. As a result, Im not telling Aldermore to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I dont uphold the estate of Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman