DRN-2651071
The complaint
Ms S complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) rejected her claim for 
subsidence.
What happened
Ms S purchased a property as part of a right to buy scheme in 2008. After a large number of 
subsidence claims from tenants, the local council instructed engineers to survey the area 
and reports confirmed that there was a major subsidence problem affecting all the properties 
in the area. 
The council decided, bearing in mind the potential costs of rectifying the subsidence 
problem, to demolish all the flats and to offer to purchase any flats which were privately 
owned.
The council offered Ms S £132,000 for her flat plus a £13,200 home loss payment and a 
£4,800 disturbance allowance payment. Ms S did not wish to sell her flat. However, due to 
problems with St Andrews handling of the subsidence claim, Ms S felt she was forced to 
accept the councils offer and sell her flat, which was sold in July 2020.
Ms S complained to St Andrews, as she believed she had lost out as a result of St Andrews 
declining her subsidence claim and its poor handling of her claim. St Andrews said it 
wouldnt have been possible to put Ms S back in the position she wouldve been in had the 
subsidence not occurred, so the only financial recourse wouldve been for the council to pay 
a fair price for her flat. 
Unhappy with St Andrews response, Ms S referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the issues and didnt think St Andrews had acted unreasonably. 
Ms S didnt agree, so the complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role is to determine whether St Andrews acted fairly in its handling of the claim. I cannot 
comment on the actions of the council or other third parties in the circumstances of this case. 
So Ive looked at what Ms Ss policy says about how St Andrews would consider and settle 
claims.
It says: We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is 
damaged. It further states: We will either pay the cost of repairing the damageor pay the 
difference between the open market sale value of your home prior to the damage and the 
open market sale value after the damage.
Because of the circumstances that presented themselves in this case, namely that it was not 
possible for an effective and lasting repair to be carried out, due to the costs involved in 
having to carry out underpinning to all the properties affected, St Andrews was entitled to 
and obligated to, under the policy terms, ensure Ms S was indemnified appropriately for the 
loss of her home  as the only option was for it to be demolished.
So Ive considered the valuations that were obtained for the property. A valuation for 
£90,000 was produced on 31 March 2020. The councils valuation however was for 
£140,000 without a reduction in value for the subsidence. Im satisfied St Andrews agents 
had sight of the councils higher valuation and Ive considered its agents comments in 
relation to this. And I think what theyve said is reasonable. They have explained that taking 
an average of the two valuations wouldve produced an offer of £115,000  but despite this, 
the amount offered to Ms S was £132,000. This is much closer to the higher valuation 
amount and I think thats fair considering the valuation for £140,000 is the more persuasive 
and reliable one, due to the level of detail it contains.
So, looking again at the policy terms, I cant say St Andrews hasnt acted reasonably  as its 
obligation under the policy was to ensure Ms S received the difference between the value of 
her property before the subsidence happened and the value of the property after the 
damage occurred, not to receive full market value of her property without any reduction in 
value due to the subsidence. The policy wording makes this clear. Ms S never wouldve 
received the full market value for the property before subsidence under the policy terms. And 
looking at the figures, I think St Andrews has met its obligations under the policy and theres 
no shortfall it needs to pay. So, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Ms S, I cannot say 
St Andrews has acted unfairly here.
In terms of St Andrews handling of the subsidence claim, and the delays caused, Ive looked 
closely at what happened and Ive also considered carefully Ms Ss representatives 
submissions. Its fair to say there were some delays and there was also some poor 
communication. But much of the time taken wouldve been inevitable as this was a complex 
situation involving several parties. So I agree with our investigator that the payment of £250 
in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Ms S by St Andrews failings seems 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman