DRN-2056720
 
The complaint
Mr H and Ms H complain that Mr H was given incorrect information by Bank of Scotland plc
trading as Halifax following a payment incorrectly paid into an account.
What happened
Mr H says a benefit payment of £700 was paid into a Halifax account by mistake in
September 2019. He says he called Halifax about this, and was given incorrect information
about how to get the money returned that resulted in a visit to a branch. Mr H says he was
told he wasn't party to the account and that Halifax wouldn't give him information about the
payment. He says he asked to speak to Halifax's vulnerable customer team and was told the 
money would not be returned until he obtained proof of the payment. He also says he
attended a Halifax branch but didn't need the evidence of the money as he was still
named on the account. Mr H says his time was wasted and would like compensation and an 
acknowledgement he was given incorrect advice.
Halifax says Mr H was removed from the account in 2014 following an Individual Voluntary
Arrangement (IVA) and says it wasn't at fault for the payment being made into this account.
It says Mr H was in those circumstances only entitled to limited information when he called.
And its advisor was correct to say he needed to attend a branch with supporting information
such as identification documents and a letter of authority from Ms H. Halifax says when Mr H 
attended its branch with identification a call was made to its relevant team that agreed to
return the payment.
Mr and Ms H brought the complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The
investigator thought Halifax could have done more to help Mr H when he called it and
thought it could have transferred Mr H to its relevant team which would have avoided the
need to attend a branch. He also thought Mr H's details must have still been on Halifax's
systems and it could have asked Mr H the security questions during the call. And could have 
transferred the call to its insolvency team. The investigator recommended Halifax pay £50 
compensation.
Halifax doesn't agree with that recommendation and says its staff acted correctly by referring 
Mr H to a branch with identification and with the letter of authority. It says following it looking 
at that identification evidence, a call was made to its insolvency department, and it agreed to 
refund the money. It also says its staff member, Mr H spoke to on the call, wouldn't have 
known what would take place in branch. And says its vulnerable customer team couldn't 
have helped the situation or was the correct department to deal with this complaint or 
situation.
Mr H agrees with the investigator's view.
My provisional decisionI issued a provisional decision in this complaint and said that I came to the
provisional view that Halifax dealt fairly with this complaint and hadn't made a mistake.
I said that it wasn't clear why the money which I think was £511.68 and not £700 was paid 
into the Halifax account. I was satisfied that Halifax didn't make a mistake and could see 
from its records that Mr H's name was taken off the account in 2014. In those circumstances 
I appreciated why Halifax had concerns about speaking to Mr H about the account. And why 
it told Mr H to attend a branch with identification and a letter of authority from Ms H. I didn't 
think it made a mistake or acted unfairly by making that request.
I didn't think Halifax was obliged to ask security questions on that call or that it ought to have 
transferred the call to its insolvency team. I was satisfied that it was up to Halifax when 
exercising its commercial judgement to decide what its security process is in this type of 
situation and not something I could fairly interfere in. I was also satisfied that Mr H was 
correctly advised that he should bring with him the documents and whilst its accepted some 
were not needed I didn't  think it followed that the advice was wrong. And I accepted the 
documents may have been needed and that Mr H would be justified in his criticism if he had 
not been told that the documents were required.
I was satisfied Mr H did provide sufficient evidence of his identity when he attended the 
branch and that Halifax's insolvency team were satisfied with it to allow the approval of the 
refund. I appreciated that meant Mr H attended a branch. But for the reasons I have 
explained, I find that was unavoidable, and inevitable when the payment was made to the 
incorrect account. And I don't think Halifax's advisor could have known what view the branch 
and the insolvency team would take when Mr H attended the branch with evidence of his 
identity.
I didn't think Halifax made a mistake by not transferring the call to its vulnerable team and
didn't think the outcome would have been any different if it had or that the team could have
helped in this situation.
Overall my provisional view was that Halifax had dealt fairly with this complaint. I also 
thought that the key point of the complaint was that Mr H attended a branch with 
identification that resulted in Halifax being able to help him but on a call that could not 
reasonably be achieved.
Mr H doesn't accept that view and says in summary that Halifax shouldn't have kept a 
benefit payment and that he pointed that out during a call. He says the evidence he gave 
about travelling to a branch has been ignored and that he didn't present any identification 
and Halifax would have found that out if it had transferred him to its insolvency department.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view that I reached in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. I realise Mr 
and Ms H will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the calls between the parties and I appreciate how frustrating this process 
was and how long Mr H spent on the telephone calls. But I'm satisfied that Mr H was no 
longer a joint account holder and so Halifax correctly told him that it couldn't speak to him. I 
accept that Mr H could have been told at an earlier stage that he could attend a branch with 
the relevant documents but I don't think that would have avoided the visit to the branch.
I appreciate Mr H says he didn't provide the evidence he took into the branch to Halifax. But 
I have explained that I don't think that means the advisor was wrong to tell Mr H to take that information with him. I don't think it matters if the payment was a benefit or pension payment 
as I'm satisfied Halifax wasn't responsible for the mistake and repaid the money when it was 
able to establish what took place.
I accept Mr H was caused inconvenience but I think that was due to a mistake being made 
outside of Halifax's control and in those circumstances such inconvenience was inevitable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman