DRN-3991723
The complaint
Mr B complains National Westminster Bank Plc failed to send him a debit card which they 
previously agreed to do.
What happened
What follows repeats much of the background set out in my provisional decision as well as 
my provisional findings. I restate matters here for the purposes of issuing this final decision.
The relevant facts are:
Mr B holds a current account with NatWest. He says NatWest told him that sending 
debit cards wouldnt be a problem once he moved to another country from the UK. 
This was why he set up internet banking on his account.
After moving, NatWest sent him a card reader on two occasions but refused to send 
him a card. They sent him a letter saying they wouldnt send a card to where he lived 
because of an increased risk of card interception. Due to the slow postal service 
where he lives, he says he received the letter in May 2022 despite it being dated 21 
March 2022.
Mr B raised a complaint. NatWest apologised for what he was told in branch. They 
offered him £300 compensation but said they would not send him a debit card.
Once Mr Bs old card expired he couldnt transfer funds from his account. Regular 
payments - primarily pension payments - continued to credit his account.
Mr B says ringing NatWest is problematic due to calls dropping. He says this is a 
common problem when trying to make calls from the country where he now lives to 
the UK.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 and concluded:
NatWests refusal to send a card
Banks like NatWest are allowed to make risk-based decisions. Their risk appetite will include 
factors such as an increased risk of fraud. To these ends, banks can institute policies that 
revoke or limit services to customers in certain countries, including where they send cards.
 
Mr B may have been told incorrect information about NatWests policy before he moved. The 
information Ive available is unclear about when the policy started. I see the letter dated 21 
March 2022 states:
We're aware that mail is being intercepted before reaching addresses in your country of 
residence. To protect you from the potential risk of fraud, we're having to change the way we 
send active debit cards
And this, tallied with NatWests focus on becoming a more UK centric bank, seems to 
indicate the policy change was more recent. So, it could be the policy changed after Mr B 
had moved from the UK.
But regardless of when the policy was in effect, Im not satisfied NatWest must ensure all 
future cards are sent to Mr B by post. NatWest have a broad commercial discretion which 
includes being able to change policies, change terms and conditions by giving notice, and to 
close accounts that fall outside their commercial appetite. Ultimately their service is 
revokable, and in this context, I dont find directing them to make a continuous exception for 
Mr B would be proportionate.
Mr B appears to have suggested NatWests approach on what they can send by post isnt 
consistent. He referenced receiving card readers by post. But there are materially different 
risks and considerations to sending an active debit card to another country, than a card 
reader or other kinds of correspondence. An active debit card could more readily be used to 
commit fraud on his account if intercepted before it reached him.
NatWest have now decided an exception should be made for Mr B on this occasion, which is 
reasonable given Mr B cant move his funds without a card, hed already moved before he 
was told that a card couldnt be sent, and he has no current plans to visit the UK where he 
could collect the card from branch. Theyve agreed to send a card with a block on it, which is 
also reasonable given their concerns about card interception. But they havent confirmed 
how the block can be removed.
Mr B says he doesnt want to use his phone to unblock the card. He thinks his calls would 
drop before being able to remove the block and says he has ample experience of this 
happening. But Ive not seen evidence to show a systemic problem with persons making 
calls from the country where he lives to the UK. The problems he is experiencing might also 
be to with his phone, or the specific network or landlines he uses.
I have also borne in mind that Mr B holds an account with a UK bank. The account is 
intended for customers based in the UK, so not customers like him who live in another 
country. Clause 1.2 of NatWests terms and conditions states:
Our personal current accounts are only available to be opened by individuals resident in the 
UK.
Your account is designed to be used in the UK and must not be used for business purposes. 
If you move and are no longer resident in the UK, please tell us as soon as possible as this 
may affect our ability to keep your account open or to keep offering you the same account 
functionality
Mr B may experience regular call drops outs to the UK, but by wanting to maintain a UK 
bank account from where he lives, its not unexpected that he might encounter more 
inconvenience and expense than before. So, Im not inclined to require NatWest to exclude 
the use of phones to remove the card block if that is the only method they use to remove 
these kinds of blocks.Loss of use of the account
NatWest failed to consider whether an exception ought to have been applied to Mr B when 
he raised his complaint. Im satisfied it should have been apparent that he couldnt access 
his funds without one, and his circumstances were much the same as they are now. So, I 
find they should have made an exception to send him a card with a block on it at that time.
Mr B says he received NatWests letter revealing they wouldnt send him a card in May 
2022, so more than a month after the date on the letter. He brought his complaint on 19 May 
2023, and given his strength of feeling about this matter, Im persuaded he wouldve raised 
his complaint sooner had he received the letter earlier. So, it looks like he didnt know about 
the problem when he received a pension payment into his account on 6 May 2022, but he 
would have known by the time he received his next payment on 27 May 2022.
Had NatWest made an exception after Mr B raised his complaint, I cant be sure when he 
would have received his card, given the slower postal service hes described. So, in the 
absence of information to the contrary, it would appear reasonable for the card to have been 
sent by 1 July 2022, and for it to have arrived within two weeks, so by 14 July 2022, unless 
NatWest can show it would have taken longer than this for reasons beyond their control.
Once Mr B was told a new card wouldnt be sent, he doesnt look to have redirected 
payments from crediting his account. And, while I understand Mr B firmly believed NatWest 
had to send him a card, he should have mitigated his losses. Im satisfied he could have 
redirected his pension payments and other payments to an alternative bank account. 
Despite the inconvenience, pension payments can usually be made to foreign accounts by 
contacting the pension provider. 
Mr B has also said he would have difficulty opening another UK based bank account due to 
the issues he experiences making phone calls to the UK. It could also be the case he might 
struggle to open an account with a high street UK bank given he isnt a UK resident. 
However, he could still have tried to open a GBP account with a bank where he lives to 
avoid exchange rate fees, and I havent seen he would be ineligible for these kinds of 
accounts.
Looking at Mr Bs account history, Im satisfied he wasnt able to practically access his 
balance when it stood at £21,819.84  this was his balance between 6 May 2022 to 26 May 
2022. I understand his balance increased afterwards, but for the reasons I have just 
explained, I dont find it would be fair to ask NatWest to compensate him for the further 
payments he received, which he wasnt then able to access.
So, I find NatWest should pay Mr B 8 % simple interest per annum on the balance of 
£21,819.84 from 14 July 2022 until two weeks after the date they actually send his card. If 
Mr B receives his card before this time then NatWest can calculate the payment of interest 
up until that time instead. NatWest may want to consider using a trusted courier to shorten 
the length of time it takes for Mr B to receive his card, although I dont require them to.
Im persuaded Mr B has experienced distress and inconvenience which could have been 
avoided, particularly as I cant see NatWest considered his circumstances properly or that 
they followed their own exceptions process when they should have. Im satisfied £300 is fair 
compensation. I understand Mr B believes he should receive more, but I dont find his 
circumstances justify a larger sum.Putting things right
Im provisionally inclined to direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Send Mr B his debit card to where he lives, with instructions on how to unblock his 
card. If the card can be unblocked remotely without Mr B needing to call them, they 
should allow Mr B to unblock his card this way.
Pay him 8 percent simple interest per annum on £21,819.84 from 14 July 2022 until 
two weeks after they send him his card. If NatWest considers that theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Refund him any charges applied on the account from 10 May 2022 onwards, given 
he has had no practical use of his account since this time.
Pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience they caused by not applying an 
exception earlier.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. However, he further commented 
on: 
His disgust that NatWest hadnt applied its exceptions policy earlier and he thinks this 
warrants the use of a courier. He is suspicious about their policy and thinks it could 
have been made up by NatWests head office.
He has extensive experience of calls dropping between the UK and the country 
where he now lives, so he would appreciate being able to activate his card without 
using the telephone or provide him with a number which would not involve a 15-
minute wait to speak to someone.
He hopes his new card lasts three years so he can find a bank which better suits his 
circumstances when he visits the UK in 2-3 years time.
NatWest did not respond before the deadline passed. As a result, I have now proceeded to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. My provisional findings are copied above, and now constitute my findings for my 
final decision.
Ive read Mr Bs response to my provisional decision, but Im not directing NatWest to do 
anything different to what I require them to do below. I appreciate his concern about not 
knowing when the policy came into existence. But based on the information Ive available; 
Im persuaded NatWest have an existing policy that shows they wont generally send active 
debit cards to the country where he lives.  Mr B firmly believes that calls dropping between the UK and where he lives is persistent and 
unrelated to his phone, but I have seen no systemic evidence of telephonic issues between 
the two countries. Mr B also doesnt want to wait 15 minutes to speak to someone to unblock 
his card, but I cannot predict how long it might take to speak to someone. 
NatWests terms make clear that Mr Bs account is not meant for persons living outside the 
UK. So, as he lives abroad he may expect to encounter more inconvenience and expense 
than he would have done if he was a UK based customer. Im not directing NatWest to 
exclude the use of phones to activate his card if that is the only medium they use to remove 
blocks. Neither do I require them to provide him with a special phone number to ring to avoid 
queues if one doesnt exist. I leave it to NatWest if they want to use a courier to expedite the 
delivery of his card, but I do not require them to do so.
Mr B hopes his card will last three years during which time he hopes to visit the UK and find 
an alternative account. I understand his sentiment, but I do not require NatWest to future 
proof the use of his card for the next three years. While Mr B may want a UK based bank 
account, I dont find he is prevented from moving his funds elsewhere in the interim period, 
so as to avoid further complications that might arise from using an account that isnt meant 
for non-UK based customers.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr B accepting my final decision, I now require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Send Mr B his debit card to where he lives, with instructions on how to unblock his 
card. If the card can be unblocked remotely without Mr B needing to call them, they 
should allow Mr B to unblock his card this way.
Pay him 8 percent simple interest per annum on £21,819.84 from 14 July 2022 until 
two weeks after they send him his card. If NatWest considers that theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Refund him any charges applied on the account from 10 May 2022 onwards, given 
he has had no practical use of his account since this time.
Pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience they caused by not applying an 
exception earlier.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should put 
matters right according to my directions above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman