DRN-2957873
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Zurich Insurance plcs decision to decline a claim she made 
under her home and buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S made a claim for water damage to her home to Zurich in March 2021. She is unhappy 
that  once she mentioned a previous claim in 2018  she feels Zurichs agents looked to 
decline her claim. 
Zurich instructed an agent to find the cause of damage for Ms Ss claim. In March 2021 the 
first agent said the damage wasnt fresh or consistent with an isolated event. The agent said 
the damage appeared to be the result of previous poor workmanship. 
Ms S was very unhappy and complained to Zurich. It arranged for a second agent to attend. 
Ms S had arranged for some repairs to be carried out by a plumber. The second agent said it 
wasnt possible to validate the claim for this reason  but Zurich asked Ms S to provide a 
report from the plumber. 
The plumber didnt provide a report and Ms S is no longer in contact with him. However, she 
provided messages from the plumber where he says what he found. He found that pipes 
were either unglued  or that the glue had come away  from a previous installation in the 
loft. 
So Zurich maintained its decision to decline the claim. However, it paid Ms S £100 
compensation for the first agents poor service which led to the instruction of a second agent. 
Ms S asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought Zurich had properly 
investigated the claim and its reason for declining it was fair. 
Ms S didnt agree. She says she doesnt think having the ball valve replaced and overflow 
reconnected from 2018 is classed as having work done and we are splitting hairs. Ms S 
says this is the reason why she said Zurich couldnt rely on the poor workmanship exclusion 
clause as no works had been previously carried out that could be faulty. 
She says after her plumber fixed the leak, he told her the leak didnt come from the ball valve 
and there was nothing wrong with it  but he lowered it slightly as an extra measure to give 
Ms S peace of mind. 
Ms S says the first agent came to the conclusion about poor workmanship without checking 
the works in the loft. Shes unhappy with the actions of the second agent. She says the 
second agent did go into the loft but didnt bother to check the pipework  and didnt act 
independently as Zurich said they would. 
So Ms S wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss policy with Zurich says it will provide cover for accidental damage but excludes cover 
for loss or damage caused by faulty design or faulty workmanship. This isnt an unusual 
term. 
Zurich accepts that the first agents handling of Ms Ss claim should have been better. Ms S 
said they werent thorough enough in their inspection. It has paid Ms S £100 compensation 
for this and Zurich instructed a second agent to attend and inspect the damage. I think the 
compensation Zurich awarded to Ms S for the inconvenience caused here is fair.
In the absence of a report from the plumber, Zurich  and I  considered what the plumber 
messaged about the repairs he carried out in 2021. The message read:
Adjusted the ball valve in cold water storage tank to stop it overflowing, removed 
existing poorly installed and not glued overflow pipes, ran new overflow pipes from 
cold water tank and f and e tank, clipped both pipes to joists with fall so water runs 
away and tested for leaks.
In response to the Investigators view, Ms S says she never told us the previous leak in 2018 
was from the tank in the loft or the ball valve. She says the leak was from the overflow pipe 
and she has the invoice from the plumber to show this. 
But  as her plumber in 2021 reported that the existing overflow pipes were poorly installed 
and not glued - I think it was reasonable for Zurich to rely on this along with its agents 
findings when reaching its decision. I think the plumber identified the source of the leak was 
caused by previous works that were poorly installed. 
I understand Ms S feels strongly about her complaint and that her claim should be met. But 
based on what Ive seen, I think Zurich properly investigated the claim an its decision to 
decline it because of previous poor workmanship was reached in a reasonable way. And as 
this is excluded from cover under the policy, Im not asking Zurich to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman