DRN-2920108
The complaint
Mrs L complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In April 2019 Mrs L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. She experienced a number of issues including a water leak and issues with the 
cruise control. Oodle arranged two inspections of the car and agreed to help Mrs L with the 
cost of a hire car whilst the outcome of the inspections was awaited but ultimately said it 
wasnt upholding the complaint because there wasnt enough evidence to show that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. Having considered the contents of 
the two inspection reports, and in particular the second inspectors conclusions about the 
cause of the issue with the cruise control being water ingress, I concluded that it was more 
likely than not that the car had been supplied with a fault which caused water to ingress, 
which in turn had led to the other issues including the water in the footwell and the cruise 
control fault. I explained why I was persuaded that a poorly fitted windscreen  as identified 
as the likely cause of the water ingress by the second inspector  was a point of supply fault 
as there was no evidence that Mrs L had had a windscreen fitted after purchasing the car. I 
said that because the supplying dealer had had the opportunity to repair the car but had not 
done so, Mrs L should be allowed to reject the car.
Mrs L responded to my provisional decision and said she agreed with it. She explained that 
shed settled the agreement and asked what would happen to the car now.
Oodle responded briefly and said that the agreement had been settled on 16 April 2021. It 
didnt say whether it agreed with my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs L has said that she accepts my provisional decision. Oodle hasnt disagreed with it but 
has made the point that the agreement has been settled and has asked how the matter will 
proceed.
Ive taken the fact that the agreement has been settled into account. Mrs L has said that she 
still has the car. I dont think theres any reason to reach different conclusions from the ones 
I reached in my provisional decision, other than to require Oodle to refund the settlement 
amount which was paid in April 2021. Mrs L has explained that she paid this because of all 
the upset and distress the ongoing issues with the car were causing her. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Oodle must allow Mrs L to reject the car. It should end the agreement (I 
understand this has been done already) and arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs L. It 
should refund the deposit plus interest and refund all monthly payments made by Mrs L 
since September 2019. It should also refund the settlement amount paid by (or on behalf of) 
Mrs L in April 2021.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs L
Refund any deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund all monthly payments made since September 2019 plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the settlement amount paid in April 2021 plus 8% interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse information in relation to the agreement from Mrs Ls credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman