DRN-3558502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Leeds Building Society (Leeds) have withdrawn from the 
Gibraltar mortgage market so they are unable to obtain another fixed rate product. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Leeds in 2010. The mortgage was for £95,000, over 
a term of 15 years on a capital repayment mortgage. They took out a three-year fixed rate of 
4.99% which expired in September 2013, after which the Leeds Gibraltar variable rate (GVR) 
would apply for the remainder of the mortgage term. 
Over the years, Mr and Mrs B took out further fixed rates when their product deals had 
expired and the last one was taken out in August 2018. They took out a three-year fixed rate 
of 3.29% which expired in July 2021. This would be followed by a variable rate set at 1% 
below the GVR rate for a period of two years, after which the GVR would apply for the 
remaining term. 
In November 2019, Leeds made a decision to close their office in Gibraltar and leave the 
Gibraltar mortgage market. Because of this, they were no longer offering any fixed rate 
products to their borrowers. They also moved the administration of those mortgages to the 
UK. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted Leeds in May 2021 to discuss new interest rates as theirs was due 
to end and Leeds informed them that they no longer offered products to those customers in 
Gibraltar. Mr and Mrs B raised a complaint with Leeds about this. 
Leeds confirmed their position but agreed to waive any administration costs of redeeming 
the mortgage once the fixed rate ended. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with what Leeds had told them so they referred their complaint 
to the Office of Fair Trading in Gibraltar. It transpired that the decision Leeds made to no 
longer offer products was ultimately made in the UK, so Mr and Mrs B referred their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service instead.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who upheld the complaint. He 
thought that Leeds should have done more to help Mr and Mrs B. He said that in addition to 
Leeds covering the administration costs on redemption, Leeds should also arrange for Mr 
and Mrs B to obtain independent financial advice to see what options they have available. 
And if Leeds were not able to offer to arrange free financial advice, they should cover this 
cost. 
The investigator also said that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage is regulated by the Gibraltar 
Financial Services Commission and not the UKs Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So he 
said the mortgage is unregulated. 
Mr and Mrs B and Leeds both responded to the investigator and neither of them agreed with 
what he had said. Mr and Mrs B had some concerns about the mortgage being unregulated 
when their mortgage was moved to the UK from Gibraltar and feels this isnt correct. Mr and 
Mrs B said they were told by local authorities that by moving the mortgage to the UK, its 
then regulated in the UK.
Mr and Mrs B also argued that Leeds didnt give them enough notice to enable them to apply 
for a mortgage with another lender. 
Leeds responded and in summary, said that they have tried to help Mr and Mrs B but their 
mortgage account is now in arrears and has been since December 2019. They said they 
applied a payment holiday to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage from May until July 2020 and have 
continued to try and assist them. Leeds said that Mr and Mrs B declined to go through an 
income and expenditure (I&E) and also declined to seek advice from external sources such 
as Citizens Advice Bureau. They are also aware that Mr and Mrs B do not want to be 
contacted by telephone which is making it extremely difficult to come to any sort of 
arrangement. 
They said that when Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage term ended in July 2021, they put Mr and Mrs 
B on a concession to reduce the monthly payments to £500 but there were still months 
where they were unable to afford these payments. In summary, Leeds dont feel that offering 
to pay for financial advice would be an appropriate solution for Mr and Mrs B because there 
are arrears on the mortgage and it would be unlikely they would be able to obtain a better 
interest rate elsewhere. Leeds said that if Mr and Mrs B continue to refuse to speak with 
them or complete a budget planner, they are unable to help them.
As both parties disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 31 May 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B feels that Leeds have changed the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage they agreed to, because they are unable to obtain a new fixed rate on their 
mortgage  because Leeds decided to leave the mortgage market in November 2019 
after closing their Gibraltar office.
The first thing to clarify here is whether the mortgage is regulated or not. Mr and Mrs 
B believe that since their mortgage has been moved to the UK, its now regulated. 
Leeds told us that they decided to close their branch in Gibraltar in November 2019 
and since moved the administration of those mortgages to the UK. The terms and 
conditions of those mortgages have however remained the same. There have been 
no changes to those terms and conditions and no changes to the mortgage contract 
that Mr and Mrs B entered into when they took the mortgage out in 2010. Even 
though the administration of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage has moved to the UK, this 
doesnt mean that their mortgage is regulated by the FCA. Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
is regulated, but its regulated by the Financial Services Commission because their 
property is in Gibraltar and not the UK. 
Leeds have explained they made a commercial judgement to leave the Gibraltar 
mortgage market therefore they no longer offer new mortgage products to customers 
in Gibraltar. This decision was made for all customers and not just Mr and Mrs B.  
Leeds were entitled to make that decision. But Ill now go on to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs B have been treated unfairly as a result of that decision.
In treating customers fairly, Id expect to see a lender treat its customers with similar 
characteristics the same. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have said they feel that they 
are being treated unfairly because UK based customers are able to apply for new 
interest rates, however those customers based in Gibraltar are unable to do so.
Customers in Gibraltar have different characteristics to those in the UK. There are 
different rules and regulations that apply so the test here is whether Mr and Mrs B are being treated the same as other customers in Gibraltar. Based on what I have 
seen, Mr and Mrs B are being treated the same as other customers in Gibraltar 
because none of those customers are able to apply for any new mortgage products  
as they are based in Gibraltar. 
I have also looked at the original mortgage offer from when Mr and Mrs B took out 
their mortgage and the various mortgage offers from when they changed products 
over the years, and these offers set out the basis on which the mortgage would 
operate. None of these offers confirm that further products would have been 
available to Mr and Mrs B, once their product expired. The offers confirm how long 
the fixed rates will last for and what variable rate will then apply for the remainder of 
the term. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B may have expected to be able to take out 
further rates based on what they had done previously, but this was never a 
guaranteed feature of the mortgage. So Im satisfied that Leeds have treated Mr and 
Mrs B fairly with regards to this. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they havent been given enough notice and feel they should 
have been told about Leeds decision much sooner. Leeds have provided us with a 
sample copy of a letter that was sent out to all their customers in September 2019 
which would have included Mr and Mrs B. This letter informs borrowers that Leeds 
have decided to close their branch in Gibraltar on 29 November 2019. They explain 
that the mortgage will continue in line with the existing mortgage conditions and to 
make mortgage payments as normal. So I think this letter would have notified Mr and 
Mrs B of Leeds intentions.
I have also seen a letter that Leeds sent Mr and Mrs B dated June 2021 where they 
inform Mr and Mrs B that their fixed rate is due to come to an end. The letter informs 
Mr and Mrs B what their new monthly payment will be from 1 August 2021. This letter 
explained the different options available to Mr and Mrs B  so to stay on the new 
interest rate that the fixed rate was reverting to, or to seek an alternative interest rate 
with another mortgage provider. Leeds confirmed that once the fixed rate ended at 
the end of July 2021, Mr and Mrs B would be able to move to an alternative mortgage 
lender without incurring any early repayment charges (ERCs).
I do understand the point that Mr and Mrs B have made with regard to how much 
time they were given. Although Leeds notified them in September 2019 that the 
branch in Gibraltar was closing, that letter didnt mention anything about what 
products were available. It wasnt until Mr and Mrs B were sent the letter in June 
2021 that they were aware there were no products available. This may not have been 
enough time for Mr and Mrs B to seek an alternative lender, but I think even if Leeds 
had given them more notice, I dont think the outcome would have been any different. 
I say this because Mr and Mrs B were already tied into a fixed rate product. So even 
if they knew that other products wouldnt have been available to them, they would 
have been charged an ERC if they were to redeem that mortgage early  and I dont 
think they would have taken that course of action. 
Leeds have also provided us with Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage statements, and I can 
see that their mortgage account has been in arrears since December 2019. I think 
this could also have made it very difficult for Mr and Mrs B to find another lender that 
they could have moved their mortgage to. 
Mr and Mrs B would like Leeds to cover all repayment costs which include solicitor 
costs, for them to find an alternative lender. Leeds have already agreed to waive all 
admin costs which I think is fair. But I dont think that Leeds should cover any other 
costs in relation to this. As Ive already mentioned, Leeds made a commercial 
decision to stop offering new products and they made Mr and Mrs B aware of this. Mr 
and Mrs B could have gone to another lender if they wished to do so, after their fixed rate expired. There were no barriers put in their way that would have prevented them 
from doing so.
Mr and Mrs B have also acknowledged that they arent in a position to do so now 
because their mortgage is in arrears and they understand it could be difficult for them 
to find an alternative lender. 
Our investigator thought that Leeds should arrange for financial advice for Mr and 
Mrs B to see what options are available to them  at no cost to them. I somewhat 
agree with this, but I think the situation that Mr and Mrs B now find themselves in, 
could make it difficult for them to find an alternative lender. 
From what I understand, Leeds said that Mr and Mrs B declined to go through an I&E 
to see what could be done to help them and Leeds said they thought that Mr and Mrs 
B should also seek advice elsewhere  but Mr and Mrs B also declined this. 
I dont think that Leeds should pay for the cost in Mr and Mrs B seeking financial 
advice as I dont think at this stage it will make a difference to Mr and Mrs B  
because of the situation they are in. But I do think Leeds should continue to try and 
help Mr and Mrs B to agree a way forwards as the account is still in arrears. 
However, that said, it will be difficult for Leeds to do this if Mr and Mrs B are not 
engaging with them.
It seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs B will be able to move their mortgage elsewhere, 
and they are not keeping up to date with their mortgage payments from what I can 
see, so both parties will need to liaise with each other in order to move things 
forward. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision but having 
considered everything I dont currently intend on upholding this complaint or asking 
Leeds to do anything further. 
Developments
Mr and Mrs B responded to the provisional decision and disagreed with what I had said. In 
summary, they said that Leeds havent treated them fairly as they told Mr and Mrs B there 
would be no changes to their mortgage, and they feel that Leeds have moved the goalposts.
As a result, they told Leeds in January 2022 that they would be selling the property as they 
said Leeds tactics have left them unable to afford repayments. Mr and Mrs B said that a sale 
was agreed three months ago and mention a delay in relation to title deeds.  Mr and Mrs B 
were also unhappy that we couldnt confirm their mortgage is regulated in the UK.
Leeds responded and accepted what I had said in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B havent made any new comments which would alter my provisional decision 
on this matter, therefore I see no reason to depart from it. I do understand they are 
disappointed with what I have said, and I have already given my reasons as to why I dont 
think Leeds have acted unfairly here. I have also explained how the mortgage is currently 
regulated. 
Mr and Mrs B have made an additional comment about the delay in title deeds since selling 
their property which would not have been considered under this complaint. Mr and Mrs B 
should continue to liaise with Leeds in order to get the matter resolved.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman