DRN-2607563
The complaint
Mr H complains that he wasnt aware that his interest free period with Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) was coming to an end.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card from Virgin. He was on an interest free deal. This ended in June 
2019. 
Mr H complained. He said he wasnt aware that the interest free period was coming to an 
end. He said he didnt receive the email that Virgin said theyd sent to him. And he said that 
this was not consistent with Virgins claims about good customer service. 
Virgin said theyd acted fairly. They said their terms and conditions say that cardholders are 
responsible for monitoring entries on their statements. On Mr Hs statements prior to June 
2019, there was a warning that the interest free period was coming to an end in June 2019. 
And they emailed Mr H on 20 May 2019 to say that also. Their records showed the email 
hadnt been returned  so it must have been received by Mr H.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
He thought that Virgin had acted reasonably. He could see that Virgin advised Mr H that the 
promotional period was coming to an end  by entries on his statements. Hes also seen 
evidence that Virgin had emailed Mr H to let him know in May 2019.
Mr H asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H told us he didnt monitor his credit card very closely and therefore didnt notice that he 
was paying interest. It was only in May 2020  when Virgin wrote to him to say he was 
paying more in interest than his minimum payments  that he realised his interest free period 
had ended. He says he wasnt given clear notice that his interest free period was ending. 
And he thinks that Virgins treatment of him was at odds with their customer service claims.
Ive looked at Mr Hs statements in the lead up to when the interest free period ended on 6 
June 2019. On each statement produced in March, April, and May 2019  it says, 
Promotional rate end date 06/06/2019. On the statement issued in April 2019, theres also 
a statement on the first page which says Your introductory promotional offer is about to 
expire.we wanted to remind you that you have a balance on a promotional rate that will 
expire in two months time..when a promotional offer ends, we will start charging your 
current standard interest rate that applies And the June 2019 statement shows that there 
would be an estimated interest charge of £46.65 in the next month. From July 2019 
onwards, the interest charged is clearly shown in a section Interest, fees and charges.
Ive looked at Virgins records which show that an email was sent to Mr H on 20 May 2019  
saying the promotional period was coming to an end. Ive also seen their logs which show 
that there wasnt an unsuccessful delivery of the email  so I think he must have received it.
Virgins terms and conditions do say that customers should check their statements each 
month  and apart from that, its obviously makes good sense to keep any eye on things 
regularly  and wed expect customers to.  
So, Im satisfied that Virgin did let Mr H know about the end of his interest-free period. Mr H 
has said that the way that Virgin communicated this wasnt consistent with their claims to be 
customer-focused. This is a subjective matter on which he must make his own judgment. Its 
not something I can make a decision on. But I can say that on my review of what happened 
here, and looking at Mr Hs complaint, Virgin did act reasonably and fairly in dealing with Mr 
Hs accounts.
So, I wont be asking Virgin to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman