DRN-3513676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax declined their 
mortgage application, despite having issued a decision in principle (DIP). To settle the 
complaint they are asking Halifax to reimburse the early repayment charge (ERC) of 
£6,440.45 which they paid on redemption of their previous mortgage. They would also like 
Halifax to reconsider their mortgage application. Mr H has dealt with the complaint 
throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 4 February 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs H being identified.
The complaint arose out of the following events. Mr and Mrs H had an interest-only 
mortgage with Halifax, originally taken out in 2011. It was on a fixed rate until 31 January 
2023, and the term was due to end on 30 November 2024. If the mortgage was repaid 
before 31 January 2023, an ERC would be payable. However, the terms and conditions also 
allowed the mortgage interest rate to be ported onto another property, provided the 
application met Santanders lending criteria. In early 2020 there was approximately £215,000 
outstanding under the mortgage.
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs H wanted to move home, to a property that would be suitable 
accommodation for both themselves and Mr Hs elderly parents. They approached a 
mortgage broker to arrange a suitable mortgage for them. After completing information via 
Halifaxs intermediaries portal, the broker was issued with a DIP showing Halifax would lend 
just over £203,000. The DIP was valid until May 2020.
A mortgage application wasnt made to Halifax at that time; instead Mr and Mrs H went 
ahead and purchased their new property, using funds from the sale of a buy-to-let property, 
a gift of £100,000 from Mr Hs father and a bridging loan of just over £313,000. I am told that 
the bridging lender used Halifaxs DIP as part of its own affordability assessment when 
considering the bridging loan application. The purchase was completed in September 2020.
 
Halifax wasnt aware either that Mr and Mrs H had bought a new property or that theyd 
arranged bridging finance for it. Neither of those things involved Halifax.
In January 2021 Mr and Mrs H found a buyer for their property. Their broker wasnt able to 
help them at the time, so they approached Halifax directly for a new mortgage, so they could 
be reimbursed the ERC.
Halifax declined the application, saying it would lend only £10,000, later revised to £19,000. 
Mr and Mrs H complained and asked Halifax to honour the DIP. In its final response letter 
Halifax explained that the DIP couldnt be relied on as evidence of what Halifax might be 
prepared to lend at a future date, particularly where circumstances had changed. Halifax 
also said that a Notice of Correction on Mr Hs credit file had resulted in Halifax offering a far 
lower amount than Mr and Mrs H had wanted to borrow.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs H complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. 
The investigator was satisfied that the DIP wasnt a promise to lend and was only valid for 
three months. By the time the application was made, the DIP had expired and 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances had changed. The investigator also thought it was significant 
that Mr and Mrs H had only recently purchased their new property, which didnt fit Halifaxs 
criteria; the banks requirement was that a mortgage couldnt be taken out on a property that 
had already been purchased until if had been owned for less than six months. 
Although regulations meant that Halifax didnt have to carry out an affordability assessment, 
given the change in circumstances, the investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax to 
consider affordability. In all the circumstances, she didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators findings, and made some further points, the 
main ones which I summarise below.
banks normally carry out due diligence before issuing a DIP;
although they accept the DIP was out of date when they bought their new property, the 
estate agent thought it was important and it was used by the bridging finance company 
as its escape strategy;
Mr and Mrs H had never heard of the six-month rule, it isnt a legal requirement and 
they think that some banks can be persuaded to ignore it, while others completely ignore 
it;
their financial circumstances had changed  but for the better.
Provisional decision
On 18 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions.
Halifaxs lending policy is a matter for its own commercial judgement, and I dont 
have the power to substitute my own lending decision for that of the bank. However, 
Id expect the bank to consider requests and applications on their own individual 
merits and to take account of individual circumstances  and to consider making 
exceptions where appropriate, in line with the banks regulatory obligations.
Decision in Principle: Mr and Mrs Hs broker obtained the DIP through Halifaxs 
intermediaries portal. This didnt involve any assessment of Mr and Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances by a staff member or underwriter at Halifax; rather, the DIP was a 
computer-generated response to information the broker entered onto Halifaxs 
system. There would have been a soft search  which is based on the information 
provided to give an idea of whether or not Mr and Mrs H would be eligible for a 
mortgage. This is not the same as a hard search, which is done at application stage 
and which looks in detail at the credit history.I appreciate Mr H considers Halifax should have carried out due diligence before 
issuing the DIP, but that isnt part of the process of obtaining a DIP. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs H believed they could rely on the DIP issued in February 2020 
as evidence of how much Halifax would be prepared to lend a year later, I have to 
disagree. The DIP expired in May 2020, and by the time Mr and Mrs H wanted to 
apply for a mortgage in January 2021, their circumstances had, in any event, 
significantly changed.
ERC: Mr H describes the ERC as a penalty. The ERC wasnt a penalty, which has 
a distinct meaning in law; a penalty is a contractual term that applies where there is a 
breach of contract. But when Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was repaid, there was no 
breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be repaid 
if Mr and Mrs H paid an ERC. In the circumstances, the ERC was charged in line with 
the contract terms to which Mr and Mrs H had agreed to be bound.
Six-month rule: Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Halifaxs requirement that they 
had to have owned their new property for at least six months before they could apply 
for a mortgage on it. Theyve said that other lenders disregard this, and that it isnt a 
legal requirement. I disagree. The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and 
Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 and the Financial 
Crime Guide published by the Financial Conduct Authority as part of its regulatory 
handbook place a duty on Halifax to have in place a policy to avoid money-
laundering in order to comply with the regulations. In addition, Halifax is entitled to 
mitigate the risk of losses caused by back-to-back sub-sales and mortgages.
Consequently, in common with the majority of lenders, Halifax imposes a six-month 
ownership rule before it will grant a mortgage on a property the applicant. Halifax is 
under no obligation to waive this policy for Mr and Mrs H. There are other lenders 
who do not have such a policy, but the increased risk is reflected in the pricing of 
their mortgage products.
New mortgage application: When Mr and Mrs H completed the sale of their 
previous property on 12 February 2021, the mortgage to Halifax was repaid in full. An 
ERC of £6,440.45 was charged on redemption of the mortgage. In order for the ERC 
to be reimbursed, Mr and Mrs H had to apply for a new mortgage, or to port their 
previous mortgage interest rate product, and to do so within three months of 
redeeming their existing mortgage. 
I dont think porting the existing product was an option here. It did not meet Halifaxs 
lending criteria for porting, because Mr and Mrs H already owned the property on 
which they wanted to port the mortgage, and it was not free of mortgage, as there 
was a bridging loan secured on it. This didnt meet Halifaxs criteria, as the bank 
would only allow an interest rate port onto an unencumbered (that is, mortgage-free) 
property. 
Because porting their existing mortgage was outside Halifaxs lending criteria, 
Mr and Mrs H needed to apply for a new mortgage product, but could only have done 
so after March 2021. 
A mortgage application was made in January 2021, but didnt proceed. Mr and Mrs H 
believe the only reason for the decline was due to a Notice of Correction on Mr Hs 
credit file from ten years earlier and so should not have affected their application. 
Halifax says, however, that it was explained to Mr and Mrs H over the telephone that 
the application had failed an affordability check. Mr H says that he had a credible repayment strategy for an interest-only mortgage. 
He has not told us what this is. However, the previous repayment strategy had been 
sale of the property. Mr and Mrs H had also sold a buy-to-let property to go towards 
the purchase of their new property, so that would not have been available to go 
towards paying off the mortgage. They had no savings, and as the new property was 
intended to be a long-term home for Mr and Mrs H and their family, its unlikely they 
were intending to use sale of this as their repayment strategy.
In addition, for a new mortgage application, if the repayment vehicle was to be a sale 
of the property, Mr and Mrs H would have needed income of £150,000 in order to 
meet Halifaxs criteria for an interest-only mortgage, and their income was far less 
than this.
In the absence of evidence of their repayment vehicle, Mr and Mrs H didnt meet the 
criteria for an interest-only mortgage. Im satisfied a repayment mortgage of 
£213,000 wouldnt have been affordable, given their ages and incomes.
Conclusion: I fully appreciate how disappointing it was for Mr and Mrs H that in 
January 2021 they werent able to rely on the DIP their broker had obtained in 
February 2020 to obtain a new mortgage. Halifax was, of course, unaware that 
Mr and Mrs H had gone ahead and bought a new property, and that they had done 
this with bridging finance. None of that involved Halifax until the bank was 
approached in January 2021 for a new mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Hs broker would (or should) have been aware of the six-month rule most 
lenders have in place for a re-mortgage. It was up to the broker to explain the 
implications of this before Mr and Mrs H went ahead with their purchase, making 
them aware that they wouldnt be able to borrow from Halifax for at least six months 
and so would have the commitment of the bridging loan for a minimum of six months. 
If this wasnt made clear to Mr and Mrs H, thats something theyll need to take up 
with the broker.
I think that, even if the application had proceeded after March 2021, it would not have 
succeeded in any event, due to lack of affordability.
Overall, Im unable to find Halifax did anything wrong. The DIP wasnt a guarantee of 
future lending, Mr and Mrs H werent eligible to port their existing mortgage product, 
and a new interest-only mortgage wasnt affordable. In the circumstances, theres no 
basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for me to order Halifax to reimburse the 
ERC.
Responses to the provisional decision
Halifax had nothing further to add, but Mr H has responded and I summarise below the 
points he has made that are relevant.
He had explained to his broker what the family wanted to do before they did anything. 
Either this information wasnt passed on or Halifax ignored it.
He proved his income via his accountant to the broker.
Most estate agents want to see a DIP, so it must have some status in the market place.
He had to show the estate agent the DIP, along with other financial documents, before 
he was allowed to put in an offer on the property he and Mrs H purchased.
It now seems the DIP is just a worthless piece of paper.Had the market been normal, without pandemic restrictions, he feels sure they would 
have been able to sell their previous home and apply for a mortgage with Halifax.
For financial reasons, the bridging finance (to purchase the new property) made sense.
He had never heard of the six month rule, and most people he speaks to havent either.
There was nothing wrong with his credit file but Halifax still wouldnt change its decision.
They didnt intend to sell the property to repay the mortgage.
Mr H has taken a lump sum out of his pension, and they now have an equity release 
mortgage of £154,000, and if they wanted to they could live in the property for the rest of 
their lives without needing to make any payment at all due to the amount of equity.
Theyve never missed a mortgage payment with Halifax and would have fulfilled their 
obligation to pay the mortgage until the end of the term.
If Halifax had given them a mortgage, they wouldnt have incurred an ERC.
For this reason, they believe the ERC should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again, including the additional points Mr H has made, and revisited my 
provisional decision. Having done so, I am not persuaded that there is any basis on which I 
can uphold the complaint.
I would reiterate that the DIP is explicit that it is conditional on a full application being made, 
which meets Halifaxs lending criteria, and that the application is made before 11 May 2020.
I fully appreciate that the pandemic affected the housing market, and I can understand how 
frustrating and worrying this must have been for Mr and Mrs H, who were trying to sell their 
own property and find a new property that would be suitable not only for them, but for Mr Hs 
parents too. But the decision to buy the new property using bridging finance was nothing to 
do with Halifax. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs H were unaware of the consequences of this at 
the time, in relation to the six month rule. However, although the general public might not be 
aware of this rule, it would be difficult for me to conclude that their broker didnt know about 
it.
Notwithstanding the six month rule, Halifaxs lending criteria do not allow a mortgage interest 
rate to be ported onto a property that the borrowers already own which is not unencumbered 
(that is, free of mortgage). I think if Mr and Mrs H had discussed their plans with the broker, 
they would have been advised of this. Thats because the information on Halifaxs 
intermediaries portal (which is also available to the general public) says:
You cannot port a product onto a remortgage application from another lender, but 
can port to a remortgage of an unencumbered (mortgage free) property the customer 
already owns, where this will become their main residence.
and
To ensure that loans on mortgage free properties are processed correctly, the case 
should be keyed as follows:
Select Remortgage' or Remortgage  Own Conveyancer' as appropriate in the 
dropdown list for Purchase type.
Answer Is the property to be mortgaged, mortgage free?' as Yes' for all applicants.Note: The property must have been registered in the applicant's name (or at least 
one of the applicants' names) for a minimum of six months.
Unless Mr and Mrs H had had some other way of repaying the bridging loan  thus leaving 
the property unencumbered  before they applied for the mortgage with Halifax (and I 
understand they needed the mortgage to repay the bridging loan), they could not have 
ported their interest rate product under any circumstances.
Mr H says that their plans were discussed with the broker before going ahead. In that case, 
Mr and Mrs H might want to go back to the broker to ask why they were advised to take out 
bridging finance when it was (or ought to have been) obvious to the broker from Halifaxs 
lending criteria that a new mortgage from Halifax would not be available for at least six 
months, and a port of the interest rate product wouldnt be possible on a property that was 
already subject to a mortgage.
In all the circumstances, for the reasons given above, I can find no basis on which it would 
be fair or reasonable to order Halifax to reimburse the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman