DRN-3279774
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded offensive and derogatory information 
about her. As a result, she said that stopped her going to a branch of Barclays, so she was 
unable to deposit money to her account, which led to missed payments.
What happened
Mrs W had a bank account with Barclays. She said during a visit to a branch a member of 
Barclays staff harassed, abused and bullied her  and that Barclays has discriminated 
against her because of her disability. 
Mrs W made a subject access request (SAR) for the information Barclays held about her. 
She said Barclays has recorded that she was behaving strangely. As a result she said she 
was unable to go to the branch  and that meant that she wouldnt be able to put money in 
her account and that direct debits would go unpaid.
Mrs W complains that Barclays:
Didnt deal with her complaint.
Applied bank charges of over £100 that were a direct result of this matter  and which 
led to her overdraft being removed.
Failed to apologise for the offensive and derogatory remarks it made about her.
Didnt provide all of the CCTV footage as part of the SAR.
I issued a provisional decision. There were parts of the complaint I upheld, parts I did not 
uphold and parts that I could not look at. My finings were (and which form part of this 
decision):
Barclays comments
Barclays recorded that Mrs W may have some issues as she is a regular customer in 
branch and they have been noticing different behaviours every time she visits. The 
investigator asked Barclays for its comments on this. It said that it was genuinely concerned 
about Mrs W and was looking to help her. 
Barclays hasnt provided a coherent explanation why it monitors its customers behaviour in 
such a way or that it has acted in line with its policies here. I understand that banks have a 
duty to look out for customers who are potentially vulnerable. But its not clear how recording 
subjective remarks about a persons behaviour is going to help the bank provide assistance. 
I think the bank could have achieved its objective by handling this matter in a more sensitive 
way than it has. 
I agree with Mrs W that saying that someone has issues is a pejorative term. There is also 
a background of a dispute between Mrs W and a member of staff at the bank. Im not 
addressing that here as weve already made a decision on that complaint. 
Overall, I dont consider that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to record the information 
it has. It should:
Apologise to Mrs W.
Remove the information it has recorded  or if it cant do so provide a clear note that this 
information is wrong on its systems.
Pay Mrs W £250 for the distress caused to her by this matter. It is clear that she has 
been very upset by what happened. And I can understand that. Barclays has failed to 
take those concerns seriously  and there were delays in dealing with her complaint (I 
can look at that). I think £250 is a fair amount to reflect all those issues.
Overdraft fees and charges and account closure
I can understand why Mrs W felt she was unable to visit her branch while this matter was 
ongoing. But it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that would mean that Barclays should 
effectively freeze her account. Mrs W could have mitigated her loss by making payments in 
other ways.
Barclays has now agreed to:
Refund any charges from 15 September 2019  totalling £81.75 to be set off against the 
debt.
Write off the remaining overdraft balance of £33.02.
Remove the default recorded on her credit file.
I think this is fair.
Things I cant or wont be considering
The complaint about the branch staffs behaviour has already been considered by us in
another complaint. Under our rules I can dismiss a complaint for a number of reasons,
including where dealing with a complaint would impart the effective operation of our service.
The rules go on to give as an example of this where the subject matter of a complaint has
already been considered by us. I dont consider we should look at that complaint again.
Barclays issued its final response to the complaint about the SAR on 13 November 2019.
Mrs W had six months from the date of that letter to refer her complaint to us. But she did not
do so until July 2020. That is more than six month after the date of the final response.,
Barclays hasnt consented to us looking at that complaint and Im satisfied there were no
exceptional circumstances that prevented Mrs W referring the complaint to us in time.
The complaint about passing Mrs Ws debt to a third party regards events that happened
after this complaint was referred to us. I must give Barclays the chance to address and
resolve a complaint before I can consider it. And it wouldnt be right for me to start an
investigation into that point at this stage. So Mrs W should complain directly to Barclays if
she has not done so already.Neither Mrs W nor Barclays responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision, set out above.
My final decision
I am dismissing without consideration of its merits the complaint about how Mrs W was
treated in a branch as we have already considered that complaint.
I cant look at the complaint about the SAR as it has been brought outside the time limits set 
out in our rules.
I cant look at the complaint about Mrs Ws details being passed to a third party as it was 
referred to us after we had begun considering other complaints from Mrs W  and its not 
clear if Barclays had issued a final response or if eight weeks had passed since Mrs W 
complained to Barclays.
I can look at the other complaint points. My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC
should:
Apologise to Mrs W in writing.
Remove the information it has recorded on its systems referred to above  or if it cant 
do so provide a clear note that this information is wrong on its systems.
Pay Mrs W £250 for the distress caused to her by this matter.
Refund any charges from 15 September 2019  totalling £81.75 to be set off against 
the debt.
Write off the remaining overdraft balance of £33.02.
Remove the default recorded on her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman