DRN-4293662
The complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited has delayed repairing his car following a glass 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr R made a claim on his policy for a replacement rear window. esure was unable to source 
a replacement. And, four months later, Mr R was still without a window and the car had 
water damage despite his efforts to prevent this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
wasnt responsible for the lack of a replacement. But he thought it should have done more to 
help Mr R prevent further damage to his car or offered him an alternative. He thought esure 
should make good the interior water damage and pay Mr R £150 compensation for his 
trouble and upset. 
esure didnt reply to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R felt frustrated that esure wasnt able to replace his rear 
windscreen. He paid his £100 policy excess for the replacement and chased its agent 
regularly for updates. After four months, the agent referred him to our service on behalf of 
esure. And from what I can see, a year after the claim was made, Mr R still hasnt received 
the replacement. 
I can see that esures agent pressed its suppliers for the replacement windscreen. And it 
also looked for an alternative supplier, but without success. And I cant say that esure is 
responsible for the lack of windscreens. 
But Mr R told esure two months after his claim that his cars interior was getting mouldy. And 
he explained that he couldnt use the car because of the security issues and damp. Mr R has 
shown that he tried to mitigate his losses by taping a temporary cover over the window. 
esure is required to deal with claims promptly and fairly. I dont think it was fair for it expect 
Mr R to wait indefinitely for the replacement. When esure couldnt locate a replacement, I 
think it should have offered Mr R an alternative such as a cash settlement or a temporary 
repair. But esure didnt offer Mr R an alternative and he was left for four months without help 
to secure his car. 
Without the replacement or an alternative, the interior of Mr Rs car was damaged. And so I 
think esure is responsible for this and should put things right and deal with the interior water 
damage. 
If Mr R is unhappy with how the damage to his car is dealt with by esure, then he can always 
raise a further complaint. 
Mr R has also been caused stress and inconvenience as he hasnt been able to use his car. 
I can only consider this up to the point of his referral to our service. And I think the 
Investigators recommendation of £150 compensation for his trouble and upset up to this 
point is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the impact of 
an error over several months.
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to deal with the interior water damage to Mr Rs car and 
pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman