DRN-2686937
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his accounts without reason.
What happened
Mr L says Barclays closed his bank account and his credit card account without providing a 
reason. He says that is unfair and has caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr L would 
like £25,000 compensation and says he hasnt received the compensation Barclays says it 
offered him and didnt receive its response letter to his complaint.
Barclays says its entitled to close an account by providing two months notice and without 
providing a reason. It says it hasnt made a mistake and has acted in line with the account 
terms and conditions. Barclays accepts Mr L received poor service when he attended a 
branch to get his account balance and has offered £150 compensation. It also says its 
offered £35 as a gesture of goodwill in place of Mr Ls credit card account points which have 
now been lost.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the main part of the 
complaint. She thought Barclays was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to 
close an account by providing two months notice. The investigator considered Barclays 
reasons for the accounts being closed and thought its decision fair and reasonable. The 
investigator thought the compensation offer appropriate and said Barclays wasnt 
responsible for the safe delivery of mail.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and is concerned about how Barclays actions will impact on 
his credit file and also says he hasnt received the compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr L would have agreed to 
when these accounts were opened. Im satisfied that Barclays is entitled to close the 
accounts without reason, by providing two months notice of that decision. I can see that 
Barclays did provide Mr L with that notice and so Im satisfied Barclays has acted in line with 
those terms and conditions and hasnt acted unfairly or made a mistake. I appreciate Mr L 
would like to know why the accounts were closed, but I dont think Barclays is obliged to 
provide that information.
There is no question here that Barclays didnt deal appropriately with Mr Ls attempts to get 
the balance left in his account. I accept Mr L was caused inconvenience when he attended a 
Barclays branch. But Im satisfied that Barclays has apologised for that part of the complaint 
and offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £150.
I have made clear that Barclays was also entitled to close Mr Ls credit card account and that 
meant he lost his promotional spending points. But I think Barclays acted fairly by paying a 
gesture of goodwill payment of £35 which I find is fair and reasonable in circumstances 
where I dont think it was obliged to pay it. I appreciate Mr L says he cant access that 
money, but Im satisfied that Barclays fairly gave him a telephone number to call to access 
the money and I have not seen any evidence he did.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays is entitled to decide, when exercising its commercial 
judgement, with whom it has a business relationship and is reasonably entitled to review 
those decisions. I cant fairly interfere in such matters and Im satisfied Barclays gave Mr L 
the required notice of the account closures. I hope Barclays can arrange for the total 
compensation of £185 to be sent to Mr Ls home address as he would like or make suitable 
arrangements to send it to Mr Ls new account. I appreciate Mr L says he didnt receive one 
of Barclays final response letters. But I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for that as its 
not responsible for the safe delivery of the mail and I think on balance it was sent to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main parts of this complaint and that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £185. Mr Ls 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman