DRN-3095698
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros hasnt settled in 
full a claim under his residential let insurance policy for an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr B owns a residential property which he lets out. In February 2021 he made a claim to 
Ocaso after his tenant reported a leak from a pipe under the bath. He had the leak fixed. He 
said as a result of the leak part of the kitchen ceiling had collapsed.
When Ocasos restoration company inspected the damage, it reported that there was rot in 
the structural timbers and in skirting boards in the bedroom next to the bathroom and on the 
landing. It thought that was historic damage that hadnt been caused by the water leak. It 
also said rot wasnt covered by Mr Bs policy.
 
Ocaso said it wasnt possible to repair the insured damage without replacing the rotten 
wood. Ocaso thought it wasnt its responsibility to carry out uninsured repairs. So it offered 
Mr B a cash settlement of £1,807 for the work only to the damaged ceiling, walls and 
flooring. It said it would cost a further £8,925 to replace the rotten wood.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She didnt think Ocaso 
had treated him fairly. She recommended that Ocaso should deal with the claim without 
applying the exclusions relating to rot and gradual damage. 
As Ocaso didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy covers damage caused by an escape of water from fixed water tanks, 
apparatus or pipes which happens during the policy term. If it can be shown that loss or 
damage has been caused by an event listed in the policy, then the insurer must pay the 
claim unless it can show one of the policy exclusions can be applied to defeat the claim. The 
policy contains the following exclusions:
Rot
Loss or damage arising from wet or dry rot is not covered by this Insurance.
Gradual Deterioration/Wear and Tear
This Insurance does not cover loss or damage caused by or resulting from wear and tear or 
anything that happens gradually over a period of time.
These are common terms in policies of this nature. So, Ive looked at the evidence available 
to determine whether Ocaso acted fairly in saying that the damage predated the policy and 
in relying on the above exclusions to decline the claim.
Mr B said he first took out a policy with Ocaso in December 2019. If an insurer has 
persuasive evidence that the damage happened and stopped before the policy started, its 
unlikely wed say theyre responsible for repairing that damage under the insurance policy.
After her inspection in early March 2021 Ocasos loss adjuster reported:
The floorboards in the bathroom and landing are soft underfoot and review of the joists from 
the kitchen are showing signs [sic] that they are beginning to rot.
It is likely that the leak was on-going but unbeknown to the tenant.
Ocasos restoration company thought the leak had been ongoing for over a year. Mr B had 
had the leak fixed not long before he contacted Ocaso.
Its not clear when the leak started but based on this evidence I dont think Ocaso has shown 
that the leak had stopped before Mr Bs policy with Ocaso had started. So that means, 
unless an exclusion applies which Ill look at later, Ocaso should deal with the damage that 
happened during the term of the policy. But of course its very difficult to separate out what 
damage (in particular, to the ceiling, floorboards and joists) was caused at what stage. In 
practice the only way for Ocaso to repair the damage that definitely happened during the 
policy term is also to repair any damage that might have been caused before the policy term 
by the same leak. So thats what I think it should do here unless one of the policy exceptions 
applies.
Now that Ive decided that the damage was caused by an insured event (an escape of 
water), the next step is to consider whether the damage happened gradually. Some damage 
by its nature happens gradually and that includes rot which isnt usually something that 
happens suddenly. On the strict application of the policy terms therefore, Ocaso is entitled to 
decline the claim.
But we dont automatically say that an insurer has treated the customer fairly by relying on 
this sort of exclusion to decline the claim. We take a second step and ask whether the 
consumer should have been aware of the damage happening.
Most of the damage was only visible from the hole in the kitchen ceiling. But I can 
understand why Ocaso was concerned to learn that two of the exposed joists had newer 
pieces of wood attached to them, presumably to give the rotten joists extra strength. Ocaso 
said Mr B would have been aware of these repairs and the problem with rot because hed 
renovated his bathroom since buying the property in 2016.
Ive seen a copy of the survey report prepared before Mr B completed the purchase. The 
surveyor found no evidence of dampness or timber decay apart from around one lower 
window which isnt relevant to the area in question now. The bathroom contains a shower 
cabinet, wash hand basin and wc. The surveyor also said the sanitary wear in the bathroom 
was in good condition. Mr B has produced evidence that since buying the property he had 
the shower replaced. He said he didnt replace the shower tray. Since his survey report in 
2016 had given the property a relatively clean bill of health so far as dampness and rot was 
concerned, Im not persuaded that Mr B should have been aware of the rotten joists before 
the hole in the kitchen ceiling appeared. So in my opinion Ocaso didnt treat him fairly in 
relying on the exclusions for gradual damage and rot to decline the claim.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Ocaso should deal with Mr Bs claim without applying the exclusion 
for rot or gradual damage.My final decision
I uphold this complain and require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to act as 
set out in the section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman