DRN-2948433
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC took incorrect payments for his mortgage for 
three months. He asks that Barclays pays compensation for his upset and loss, and makes 
up the shortfall in payments. 
What happened
Mr M had an interest only mortgage with Barclays. He applied for this to be switched to a 
capital repayment basis. This was agreed with effect from 1 August 2020. However, due to 
an error, Barclays didnt take the increased monthly payments until November 2020. 
Barclays accepts it made an error. It recalculated Mr Ms monthly payments from late 2020 
so that his mortgage would be repaid by the expiry date. It said if Mr M paid the difference 
between the payments made and the payments that ought to have been made (about 
£7,000) it would adjust his account so that Mr M wouldnt incur extra interest. And it offered 
£100 compensation. Mr M said this was unacceptable. 
Our investigator said Barclays offer to put things right was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M said Barclays error meant his mortgage term would be extended by three months. He 
said it was irrational and flawed to suggest Barclays could retrospectively collect payments, 
that it could arbitrarily increase monthly payments or that hed have three months 
accumulated payments available. He said his financial loss was three months payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Barclays made an error. It should have updated Mr Ms account to a 
repayment basis and increased his contractual monthly payment (CMP) from August 2020. 
What is in dispute is whether Barclays did enough to put matters right. Having considered 
what both parties have said, I think it did. Ive explained why below.
Mr M is correct to say that more interest will be applied to his account as a result of Barclays 
error. Higher payments in August, September and October 2020 would have reduced his 
account balance and, therefore, the overall amount of interest applied to his account. I think 
its right that Barclays offered to put this right. Barclays said if Mr M paid the difference 
between the payments he made and the higher payments that he ought to have made it 
would adjust his account accordingly. 
Mr M strongly disagreed with the suggestion that these payments could be collected 
retrospectively. He didnt make the payments  and theres no requirement that he does so. 
Mr M says Barclays should pay the difference. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to do so.
While I know Mr M doesnt agree, I think Barclays offer to adjust Mr Ms account if he paid 
the difference was fair, and would have meant that Mr M wasnt out of pocket. Mr M would 
only have paid the amount he ought to have paid in August to October 2020. Barclays would 
have adjusted the account as if the payments had been made when they should have been, 
so that Mr M wouldnt incur additional interest, and Mr Ms CMP would have returned to the 
amount agreed in July 2020. 
Mr M wrote to Barclays in early October 2020 raising concerns about his payments being 
wrong. Once it was made aware of its error, Barclays updated Mr Ms mortgage account 
promptly. 
Because of the lower payments in August, September and October Mr Ms account balance 
hadnt reduced as expected when the CMP was calculated in July 2020. Mr M didnt want to 
pay the difference  or was perhaps unable to do so. Barclays recalculated Mr Ms CMP 
from late 2020 so that, provided Mr M maintains payments, the mortgage will be repaid by its 
due expiry date. In the circumstances think this is fair. Mr M hasnt said hes struggling to 
meet the higher CMPs, but if he is he should contact Barclays. 
Mr M didnt raise concerns about his payments with Barclays until early October 2020. 
Perhaps he wasnt aware of the error until then. If he was aware and worried about his 
payments, Id have expected him to raise this with Barclays sooner. While Barclays made an 
error which will have caused Mr M some inconvenience, it acted promptly to put matters right 
when Mr M raised his concerns. I think Barclays offer of £100 compensation for not meeting 
expected levels of customer service is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M asked that Barclays CEO deal with his complaint personally, and he wasnt happy with 
the responses from Barclays. Mr M asked for action to be taken regarding Barclays 
business practices and customer service, including that its board and CEO are fined and 
publicly exposed for its poor customer service. We provide an informal dispute resolution 
service. We dont have the powers of a regulator  for instance to punish or fine businesses, 
or to require them to make changes to the way they operate. I wont be looking into or 
commenting on Mr Ms comments about Barclays business practices. And as complaint 
handling isnt itself a regulated activity, I cant look into Mr Ms concerns about the way 
Barclays dealt with his complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £100 to Mr M, if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman