DRN-4292321
The complaint
Miss J complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (AIL) and their decision to 
decline the claim she made on her home insurance policy, before voiding it and returning her 
premiums. Miss J also complains about the impact this had on her motor insurance policy, 
also provided by AIL.
What happened
In January 2022, Miss J took out Multicover insurance policy, underwritten by AIL. This 
policy insured Miss Js car and the contents of her home. 
Unfortunately, in early August 2022, Miss J says an electrical surge in her home damaged 
her contents within it. So, in early September, Miss J contacted AIL to make a claim on the 
contents aspect of her policy.
AIL appointed a separate validation company, who Ill refer to as Q, to validate Miss Js 
claim. And this included an interview with Miss J, held in October. Within this interview, Q 
were made aware of a conviction Miss J was issued in May 2022. And they noted this wasnt 
disclosed on Miss Js policy. So, they made AIL aware of this, for AIL to consider what they 
wanted to do next.
AIL considered this information and took the decision to void Miss Js contents policy back to 
the date her conviction was issued on 12 May 2022. And they refunded any premiums Miss 
J paid after this time. As the policy was voided back to this date, this meant Miss Js policy 
wasnt in place in early August, when Miss J stated the damage to her contents had 
occurred. So, AIL refused Miss Js claim. 
AIL also placed the cancellation charge for Miss Js contents policy on her motor policy, 
which remained active. But Miss J didnt pay this fee and so, her motor policy was also 
cancelled. But this has since been reinstated and renewed, with the cancellation fee being 
waived.
But Miss J was unhappy about AILs decision to decline her contents claim, so she raised a 
complaint. This complaint included, and is not limited to, Miss J s belief that AILs decision to 
decline her claim was an unfair one. She was unhappy with the long term impact the 
voidance would have, as this needed to be disclosed to future insurers. And she didnt think 
AIL made it clear exactly why they had taken this decision, as AIL also provided 
documentation that suggested they felt she had been fraudulent. So, Miss J wanted AIL to 
reinstate her contents policy, pay the claim and then compensate her for the upset shed 
been caused.
AIL responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted their handling of Miss 
Js complaint couldve been better, and paid Miss J a total of £50 compensation to 
acknowledge this. But they thought they had acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions, when declining Miss Js claim and voiding the policy as they thought Miss J 
had failed to disclose her conviction. And that had Miss J done so, they wouldve refused to 
provide cover due to the increase in risk, as set out within their underwriting criteria. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Miss J remained unhappy with this response, 
so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They issued two outcomes, in 
April and July 2023. And in both, they thought AIL had acted fairly, based on the policy 
conditions, as they had seen no evidence to show Miss J had made AIL aware of her 
conviction. And they were satisfied AILs underwriting criteria showed that, had she done so, 
the policy wouldve been cancelled. So, they didnt think AIL needed to do anything more.
Miss J didnt agree and provided a series of comments explaining why. These included, and 
are not limited to, Miss Js belief that she had made AIL aware of her conviction. And, that 
the voidance was unreasonable considering its significance and impact on her ability to 
obtain future insurance. As Miss J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss J. I understand the 
impact the voidance of her policy will have had on Miss J, as this is an additional risk other 
insurers will consider when deciding whether to offer Miss J cover in the future. So, I can 
appreciate why Miss J feels unfairly treated, due to the potential financial implications of this. 
And so, I can appreciate why Miss J would complain about this and ask that AIL reverse 
their original decision.
But for me to say AIL should do this, or something more than they already have, I first need 
to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they acted outside 
of the terms and conditions of the policy Miss J held when declining her claim and voiding 
her policy. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think I can say thats the case.
I want to reassure Miss J that Ive considered all the comments shes put forward. And I 
recognise this is a clearly emotive issue, with a variety of concerns raised. But to ensure I 
remain clear and concise, I will be focusing and commenting mainly on the crux of the issue, 
which I think centres around AILs decision to decline the claim she made on her contents 
policy in September 2022.
Ive already set out above the actions AIL took regarding the claim. The policy was voided by 
AIL because they felt Miss J failed to disclose her conviction while the policy was live, rather 
than at policy inception. So, as the issues centre around a mid-term adjustment, or the 
failure of Miss J to make one, I dont think The Consumer Insurance (Representations and 
Disclosures) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant here, as this is only relevant for 
misrepresentations at policy inception.
So, Ive focused on the terms and conditions of the policy Miss J held, to think about whether 
AIL acted fairly when taking the actions they did. These terms and conditions explain on 
page 3 of the booklet, under the title Important that It is important that you tell us if any of 
the details on your home policy schedule, home proposal confirmation or home renewal confirmation are wrong, or if any of the information changes during the period of insurance. If 
you do not tell us about incorrect information or changes to details we can:
Refuse to pay your claim
Reduce the amount of cover you have, or
Declare your policy void (that is, treat it as if it had never existed).
They then go onto provide a list of circumstances that Miss J was required to notify them of 
immediately. And this included you or anyone living with you is convicted of, has been 
charged with or waiting to hear about being charged for a criminal offence.
Ive seen Miss Js contents policy proposal. And it states clearly that Miss J confirmed You 
do not have any unspent of pending criminal convictions. And I understand why Miss J may 
have felt that to be true at the time, as she states she chose to change her plea after the 
policy inception.
But I think it shouldve been reasonably clear to Miss J that, once she changed her plea or at 
the very least received her conviction in May 2022, that she would need to make AIL aware 
of this. And Ive seen no evidence to show that she did. 
I note Miss J disputes this, but shes been unable to provide evidence of any calls made to 
AIL after this time. And AIL themselves have shown they have no record of any calls where 
Miss J made them aware of this conviction. So, without this evidence, I dont think I can say 
AIL were unfair to assume this information wasnt disclosed.
And because of this, I dont think I can say AIL acted outside of their terms and conditions 
when taking the actions they did. But as Ive explained above, I must also be satisfied they 
acted fairly when doing so. And to decide this, I must be satisfied the change Miss J failed to 
disclose caused a fundamental change in the risk associated to the policy.
AIL have provided their underwriting criteria, which is commercially sensitive and so cannot 
be shared directly. But Im satisfied that any criminal conviction, full or pending, was a 
significant risk factor that determined whether they would offer cover. And Im satisfied that 
had Miss J made AIL aware of her conviction, cover wouldve been withdrawn at that point. 
So, Im satisfied AIL were fair when taking the actions they did, as they were the same as 
the actions they wouldve taken, had Miss J complied with the conditions of the policy she 
held. So, I dont think AIL need to do anything more regarding this.
I understand after this was communicated to Miss J, she then stated some of her contents 
had been damaged in February 2022, before the policy voidance. But I note this material 
change in testimony only came after the voidance. And I cant see this follows the 
information Miss J gave Q in her interview, where its noted she felt the majority of the 
damage came after a significant electrical surge in August. And it is this conflict that led AIL 
to quote the terms in their policy that relate to fraud. 
Having considered the material change, I do think these suggested inconsistencies in Miss 
Js testimony. So, I dont think I can say AIL were fair to then refer Miss J to these terms in 
an explanation as to why they wouldnt been looking to reconsider Miss Js claim. But I note 
they havent taken any further action, and the voidance remains from May 2022, with 
premiums being refunded. And this is a better position that Miss J wouldve been in had AIL 
declined the claim on a fraudulent basis, as premiums arent required to be refunded in that 
situation. I do recognise this may have created some confusion for Miss J on why her claim was 
declined, and I appreciate how this may have impacted Miss J emotionally. But I think the 
initial decline, and AILs reasoning, was made reasonably clear. And I dont think there was 
any information or evidence supplied by Miss J after this original decline that shouldve led 
AIL to reconsider the claim. So, I dont think it would be fair, or proportionate, for me to then 
say that AIL should offer Miss J compensation here.
I also note Miss J had issues with a fee placed on her motor policy, which ultimately led to its 
cancellation. But I recognise AIL have since reinstated this policy and waived the fee as a 
gesture of good will. So, I think Miss J is back in the position she wouldve been, had this not 
happened already. And I note that most of this was handled through AILs complaint 
process, as by this time Miss L had raised her concerns about the original decline in the first 
instance.
Our service doesnt have the jurisdiction to consider the way a business handles a 
complaint, as this is an unregulated activity. So, Im unable to comment on any actions AIL 
took during the complaint process. 
I recognise this outcome is unlikely to be the one Miss J was hoping for. And I recognise this 
leaves Miss J with a voided policy she will need to declare, which may have a financial 
impact on her when attempting to obtain future insurance. But as Ive set out above, I think 
AIL voided Miss Js policy, and declined her claim, fairly based on the information they had 
available to them. So, while I appreciate the impact this situation has no doubt had on Miss J 
overall, I dont think AIL need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman