DRN-3378917
The complaint
Mr C complains that One Savings Bank Plc trading at Kent Reliance caused delays in 
releasing funds that were locked in a savings account. Mr C said he could have used this 
money to pay off most of the arrears on the mortgage. He would like the additional interest 
incurred to be refunded to him.
Mr C also complains that he had to send additional paperwork to Kent Reliance on 
numerous occasions which caused him further inconvenience. He doesnt feel the £100 
offered by Kent Reliance is sufficient.
What happened
Mr C took out a buy to let (BTL) mortgage in September 2019. The mortgage was for 
£1,804,116 over a term of 25 years on an interest only basis. 
There was a special condition applied to the mortgage which meant that Kent Reliance 
would hold back £34,188 from the completion funds which would be placed into a savings 
account that Mr C wouldnt be able to access. Kent Reliance said this was something the 
underwriter required because of the low income that Mr C had, and Kent Reliance wanted 
evidence that Mr C could cover potential rental voids because he didnt have any savings at 
the time. 
Mr C had a coronavirus payment deferral from 31 March to 31 August 2020. He then 
contacted Kent Reliance on 14 October 2020 and requested a further payment deferral. Mr 
C explained he had two other properties that he was renovating and was able to do this 
through bounce back loans but couldnt afford to cover the mortgage as it would leave him 
without any cash. Mr C said he had limited cashflow as a result of the pandemic but said he 
wanted to carry out the renovations before letting the properties out. Mr C said he could also 
sell these properties. 
Kent Reliance explained they had already granted Mr C with a six-month payment deferral 
and they would need an income and expenditure (I&E) completed along with three months 
worth of bank statements in order to consider further forbearance. 
Mr C responded on 21 October 2020 with the information required and explained to Kent 
Reliance that he wouldnt be able to make any mortgage payments until at least February 
2021. Its at this point that he mentioned the savings account where he had £34,188 held 
that he didnt have access to. Mr C said he would have enough to cover up to six months 
mortgage payments so wanted access to the funds.
Kent Reliance didnt acknowledge the documents that Mr C had sent and asked for the bank 
statements and I&E to be sent again in November 2020. Kent Reliance then spoke with Mr C 
in January 2021 regarding the arrears on the mortgage and Mr C mentioned the savings 
account again. Kent Reliance again asked Mr C for the same documents to be sent that he 
had already submitted to them in October 2020.Kent Reliance eventually granted a further 
payment deferral from March to May 2021 to give Mr C time to sell the properties. 
Mr C is unhappy because he said that Kent Reliance should have allowed him to access the 
funds in his savings account much sooner than they did as this would have helped clear 
some of the arrears. He was also unhappy with how things were dealt with as he had to 
send in further documentation to Kent Reliance which he had already sent. 
Kent Reliance responded to Mr C and explained that there had been some delay in how they 
dealt with things and acknowledged it caused him distress and inconvenience, so they 
offered Mr C £100. But Kent Reliance said that the £34,188 that was held in a savings 
account was held there as a condition of the original mortgage which is why it couldnt have 
been used. They did however agree to release this money from the time that Mr C requested 
it on 21 October 2020 and agreed to a refund of charges and interest from this date.
Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at 
by one of our investigators who didnt think that Kent Reliance had acted fairly. He thought 
that Mr C made it clear from October 2020 that he was unable to make his mortgage 
payments so they should have released the money held in the savings account at that point. 
He thought that Kent Reliance should pay Mr C a further £300  so a total of £400 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. The investigator however did point out that the funds of 
£34,188 were held as a condition of the mortgage and was satisfied by backdating the 
interest from the time that Mr C asked for it  was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said Kent Reliance held back £34,188 from September 2019 and that 
during this time he was being charged interest on this money which he wants reimbursed. Mr 
C said it wasnt fair that this money was placed in a low interest savings account that he 
didnt have access to when it could have been retained as a credit on the mortgage. 
As Mr C disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised concerns about £34,188 that was held in a savings account to which he had 
no access to. He thinks its unfair that he has been charged interest on this money and 
believes Kent Reliance should have kept this money as a credit in the mortgage account 
instead of charging him interest on something he couldnt use. While I accept the point that 
Mr C is making, I dont think Kent Reliance have acted unfairly with regards to this point.
I have looked at the mortgage offer from September 2019, when Mr C took out this 
mortgage. There is a special condition attached to the offer that states:
£34,188 of the advance monies will be deducted on completion and placed on deposit in the 
applicants Kent Reliance Savings account. These monies will be held on deposit with no 
withdrawals for the duration of this mortgage.
This condition was part of the offer that Mr C agreed to at the time. The information provided 
to us by Kent Reliance shows that the underwriters who approved the mortgage, did so on 
the basis that this condition was present. The underwriters had concerns over the amount of 
money that Mr C was borrowing and the fact that he had low income at the time without any 
savings. They were aware that this purchase was made as a BTL and they wanted some 
evidence that Mr C would be able to make his monthly payments should he not be able to 
rent the property out and make the payments himself. 
While I appreciate the arguments that Mr C is making around this, this was a condition of the 
mortgage at the time and had he not accepted this, the mortgage wouldnt have been 
granted. Kent Reliance made the decision at the time to grant the mortgage in this way and 
Mr C didnt object to it because he wanted to take out the mortgage. So I cant say that Kent 
Reliance have acted unfairly here. 
I can see that Mr C queried this money when he contacted Kent Reliance on 21 October 
2020. Kent Reliance didnt act on this at the time and confirmed it was a condition of the 
mortgage that the money wasnt to be used. But after Mr C mentioned this again in January 
2021, after arrears were accruing on the mortgage, Kent Reliance made enquires with the underwriters and agreed to release this money and allow Mr C to use it because he was 
having difficulties making his mortgage payments. This after all, what the intention of that 
money and the reason why it was held in the first place.
Kent Reliance backdated this to 21 October 2020 which is when Mr C had originally 
mentioned these funds and Kent Reliance also adjusted any interest paid from this date 
along with a refund of charges incurred from this date too. I am satisfied that Kent Reliance 
have done what I would have expected them to do in this situation. 
I understand from Mr C that he doesnt agree that Kent Reliance should have charged any 
interest on this money since September 2019, but as Ive already mentioned, this was a 
condition of the mortgage so I wont be asking Kent Reliance to backdate this any further. 
Its evident from looking at the information that has been provided that Kent Reliance could 
have dealt with things quicker than they did. When Mr C originally asked for support after 
being refused a further payment deferral, Kent Reliance asked Mr C to complete an I&E and 
provide three months worth of bank statements. For whatever reason, Kent Reliance didnt 
acknowledge this when Mr C sent the documents through and asked for this information 
again in November 2020 and again in January 2021. 
I think that Mr C made it very clear from October 2020 that he was unable to make his 
mortgage payments and it was at this point that he mentioned the savings account. Kent 
Reliance should have made further enquiries about the savings account and asked Mr C 
further questions surrounding his proposal to clear the arrears on the mortgage. There isnt 
any dispute that this happened, and Kent Reliance have acknowledged this and offered Mr 
C £100 for the delays and the inconvenience caused. 
I agree with the investigator that this doesnt go far enough and think that Kent Reliance 
should pay Mr C a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. This was a 
difficult time for Mr C and the pandemic had affected him. Arrangements could have been 
made sooner to help Mr C and Im pleased that Kent Reliance agreed to a further payment 
deferral from March to May 2021. It would have been very stressful for Mr C not knowing 
how he was going to make his monthly payments, and this has caused him additional stress 
at what was already a difficult time for him. I think £400 compensation in total is fair and 
reasonable to acknowledge this. 
I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking Kent 
Reliance to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct One Savings Bank Plc to 
pay Mr C a further £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused, taking the total payment 
to £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman