DRN-3696714
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly charged fees for certain 
payments into Ts account.
T is being represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr A.
What happened
Mr A complained to HSBC after he says it began charging fees for US dollar payments into 
his account. Mr A says the fees are significant and that he receives no additional service 
from the bank despite the extra cost. 
HSBCs response explained that it sent a notice of variation to Mr A around August 2021, 
which it says gave Mr A notice of the updated fees it would be charging. The bank says it 
has acted within its terms. HSBC also referred to Mr As complaint that during a telephone 
call with the bank, he was transferred to the wrong place. So the bank paid £50 
compensation because of this.
Remaining unhappy, Mr A asked this service to review the matter. Our investigator decided 
that the bank acted fairly. Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my decision that HSBC has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its important to set out what the remit of my powers are. Its for HSBC to 
decide how it conducts its business, what banking services it provides its customers and the 
fees it charges for those services. HSBCs obligations are to act in line with regulatory 
requirements, as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But its not for me to decide how HSBC should conduct its business  thats solely on the 
bank itself to decide and its the FCAs responsibility to monitor HSBCs activities. I can only 
consider whether the bank has treated Mr A fairly in the application of its banking practices. 
HSBCs terms set out the fees it charges for certain transactions - I wont break down the fee 
structure as Im satisfied all parties have a fair understanding of it. I can see that Mr A has 
been charged the relevant fees in line with these terms. But Mr A disputes these fees and 
feels HSBC has acted unfairly by introducing it in the first place. 
However, Ive seen a copy of the notice HSBC sent to Mr A around August 2021. This sets 
out the changes to HSBCs fee structure and I think it explains the changes clearly. The 
notice also gave Mr A the opportunity to decline the changes by closing his account without 
being charged for doing so. Mr A didnt close the account, so, as the notice sets out, he 
accepted the change because he didnt do anything to dispute it. 
HSBC delayed applying the updated fees until January 2022, which it says was due to its 
own internal issues. But Mr A was notified well in advance of the fees hed be expected to 
pay. Given that HSBC gave Mr A enough notice and Mr A didnt dispute the change when he 
was given the opportunity to do so, Im of the opinion that the bank acted fairly.
There seems to be a dispute between the parties as to how the fee originated. HSBC 
indicates that it reintroduced a previous fee. But Mr A says the fee never existed at all and 
only came into effect in January. I dont think I need to make a finding on this point. 
Regardless of whether fee is new or a reintroduction of a previous fee, HSBC seems to have 
charged Mr A in line with its terms and it provided him with reasonable notice of the change 
to its fees, so that he could respond accordingly. 
I know Mr A thinks the bank acted unfairly by introducing the fee. But as I explained, its not 
for me to instruct the bank on how it should conduct its banking services. I can only ask 
HSBC to do something if I think it acted unfairly  which I dont think it did. So I wont be 
asking the bank to refund the fees it has charged so far.
HSBC couldnt find the call Mr A referred to as part of his complaint. So I cant make a 
finding on whether he was indeed transferred to the wrong place. But the bank decided to 
pay £50 compensation anyway, which I think is reasonable for an error like this.
To summarise, its up to HSBC to decide what fees it charges and how it applies such fees. 
The bank has given Mr A reasonable notice of the change in its fee structure and gave him 
the option of closing his account if he didnt agree to the change. So, in my opinion, HSBC 
has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman