DRN-3996967
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus) wont refund a payment it didnt make. 
Mr S, who is a director of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for these reasons: 
The scam resulted in three card payments debiting Rs account. But as two of these 
were refunded by the merchant, Ive only considered the circumstances surrounding 
the first card payment for £5,501.32. 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, R isnt liable for a payment Mr S 
didnt authorise. Thats unless Mr S failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep Rs personalised security details safe.
Its agreed Mr S didnt authorise the disputed payment, because he didnt complete 
the agreed steps to make it. Instead, it seems the fraudster already had Rs card 
details and completed the card payment using a code they convinced Mr S to share 
by falsely saying they suspected fraud on Rs account and needed to confirm Mr Ss 
identity. 
I dont think Mr S failed with intent to keep Rs details safe  Im persuaded he 
genuinely believed what he was doing was helping to protect Rs account from fraud. 
Im also not satisfied Mr S failed with gross negligence. He received a call using a 
withheld number from someone claiming to be from Cashplus. Given that many 
genuine organisations use withheld numbers, I can see how this didnt seem 
unusual. Ive also considered that most people dont regularly hear from their banks 
fraud team  so they wont be familiar with how the number should appear on their 
phone. 
Mr S recalled he was taken through security questions, and he could hear the caller 
was in an office environment, which reassured him. I think lots of people wouldve felt 
reassured by the familiar and seemingly legitimate environment the fraudster 
created. So, I can understand how Mr S ultimately trusted he was speaking with Rs 
bank. 
He was told they suspected fraud on Rs account and theyd need a code which 
theyd send by text to confirm his identity. Ive considered the content of this 
message: [XXXXXX] is your code to verify the payment [amount] GBP at [merchant] 
with card ending [XXXX].
Mr S explained he read it in preview on his phone  so he didnt see the full message 
before he shared it. Cashplus submit this was grossly negligent. But Im mindful that 
lots of people make use of the preview function  thats why it exists. Ive also 
reflected on how the code appears first in the message and uses the phrase to 
verify. So I can see how Mr S found it plausible that it was to confirm his identity, 
particularly in the heat of the moment of the call when hed been primed to expect it 
from the caller. 
Taking this all into account, and considering the circumstances that Mr S trusted the 
caller and was worried about the safety of Rs money, I can see why he went ahead 
and shared the code. Im not persuaded it meant Mr Ss actions were very 
significantly careless compared to a reasonable person  to conclude that he failed 
with gross negligence. 
Cashplus also point out that Mr S shared a further two codes with the caller. But as 
this happened afterwards and the amounts have since been refunded, I dont 
consider these latter circumstances to be relevant to Rs outstanding losses. 
So I conclude that R isnt liable for this payment and Cashplus need to put things 
right  by refunding its losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to 
compensate it for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Rs complaint and I order Advanced Payment
Solutions Limited to:
Pay R the total of the unauthorised transaction, less any amount already returned.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman