DRN-3633020
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) have failed to refund over 
£9,000 he says he was tricked into authorising from his credit card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr H says he received a phone call from someone purporting to be from RBS very shortly 
after receiving a text message advising him of unusual activity on his account. The person 
he spoke to said his credit card was being used to fraudulently purchase goods, and 
instructed him to authorise the payments, as the bank would then be able to reclaim the 
money from the merchant. As a result, payments totalling over £9,000 were made to 
purchase goods from a high-end retailer using Mr Hs RBS credit card. 
Mr H reported the matter to RBS, who refused to provide a refund as he had authorised the 
payments. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Mr H had authorised the 
payments and didnt think a chargeback claim would have been successful had it been 
pursued by RBS. Mr H explained that he didnt ever dispute that he had authorised the 
payments, or that RBS had been negligent in the way it took action in response to the fraud. 
But he said that no one from RBS advised him to contact the police and/or merchant 
immediately after he had reported the scam. It instead took them four days: a delay which 
Mr H considers to have been crucial in tracking down who the goods were sent to. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the delay of four days had any significant impact on 
Mr Hs ability to recover the funds or identify those responsible, so she maintained that his 
complaint would not be upheld. Mr H disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
First, I understand that Mr Hs complaint centers arounds RBSs delay in telling him 
to report the fraud to the police, which I will address in due course. But I have also 
considered whether RBS met all of its other relevant obligations in relation to 
monitoring suspicious payments and taking steps to prevent financial harm and 
recover money that has been lost to fraud.
It isnt in dispute that Mr H authorised the disputed payments made from his RBS 
credit card. He knew that payments were being made, and had authorised them 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by RBS. The starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether RBS should have done more to prevent Mr H from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. However, I dont consider 
the payments would have appeared particularly significant or unusual to have been 
made from a credit card so as to warrant any intervention by RBS. So, I dont think it 
had any obligation to contact him and question him about the circumstances of the 
transactions. 
Ive also thought about whether RBS could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr H reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered 
via the bank raising a chargeback dispute or a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, a chargeback wouldve had little chance of 
success in these circumstances, as the merchant would have likely shown that the 
goods purchased had been sent/provided in exchange for the payment that had been 
made. So, I dont think RBS acted unfairly by failing to pursue a chargeback claim in 
these circumstances.
In order for a valid section 75 claim to be made, there must be a debtor-creditor-
supplier (DCS) agreement, and a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract 
against the supplier thats party to that agreement. In this instance, Mr H did not have 
any agreement or contract with the supplier of the goods, as he was not the party 
who purchased the goods; he was the one who effectively authorised the third party 
to do so. Therefore, he would have no claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the supplier, and neither would there be a valid DCS link. 
So, I dont consider RBS have acted unfairly by failing to pursue a section 75 claim 
either. 
Mr H is also unhappy that no one from RBS advised him to contact the police and/or 
merchant immediately after he had reported the scam. He said it took four days, 
which he considers to have been detrimental to his chances of identifying who was 
responsible. I appreciate RBS could have told Mr H sooner to report the matter to the 
authorities if he had concerns. However, it isnt possible to say whether any earlier 
action by the police would have resulted in the scammers being caught. Indeed, 
given stretched policing resources, its also unlikely that an immediate investigation 
would have been launched upon Mr H reporting the matter either. The merchant 
would also presumably still have the same information about where the goods were 
sent to provide to the police, no matter what point they were contacted. So, I cant 
say that a delay of four days would have likely hindered his chances of recovering his 
money or tracking down the perpetrators of the fraud. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a scam. However, I wont be asking RBS to take any further action in 
these circumstances, as I dont consider it to be liable to refund the loss Mr H has sustained, 
and I dont think any of its actions or service provided while handling the fraud investigation 
would warrant an award of compensation either. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman