DRN-1654710
The complaint
Mr K complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) continued to take payments after hed cancelled 
his mobile phone contract.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr K upgraded his mobile phone and sent his old phone back to the 
manufacturer. 
Mr K began paying for his new phone but noticed that payments for the old phone were still 
being taken. He cancelled his direct debit to stop further payments being taken.
In February 2019 Klarna sent an arrears letter to Mr K advising him that hed missed 
payments under his old agreement.
Mr K contacted Klarna several times but was unable to get things resolved. He raised a 
complaint in March 2019.
In response, Klarna said it hadnt received an instruction from the manufacturer to settle the 
agreement until April 2019, and that because Mr K had cancelled his direct debit prior to this, 
it had sent arrears letters. Klarna also said there was a delay in settling the agreement 
because the wrong process was followed. It acknowledged that it had made errors and 
refunded the incorrectly taken payments and corrected Mr Ks credit file.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator upheld 
the complaint. She didnt think Klarna had done enough and said it should pay compensation 
to Mr K.
Klarna didnt agree. It thought it had acted fairly by refunding the overpayments, writing off 
the late payment fees and correcting the credit file. It said Mr K shouldnt have cancelled his 
direct debit without consulting it first.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Klarna has said that Mr K contacted it in January 2019 to query why his payments were still 
being taken despite the fact that hed sent his phone back. Klarna has said that it raised the 
issue with the manufacturer but didnt receive an instruction to cancel the agreement until 
April 2019, when the manufacturer advised that the agreement should be treated as settled 
from December 2018. It wasnt until July 2019 that the account was marked as settled. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events and its fair to say that although the initial error was that 
of the manufacturer, there was significant delay by Klarna between April 2019 and July 
2019. Klarna has acknowledged that this was because the account was incorrectly 
processed. 
Ive thought about the impact of this on Mr K. Mr Ks credit file was incorrectly showing 
arrears for the old agreement for several months. I dont have any evidence to suggest that 
this impacted on his ability to obtain finance, but I dont doubt that it caused him distress. He 
also had to wait several months before his overpayments were refunded.
Ive taken account of the point made by Klarna that Mr K cancelled his direct debit before 
contacting them to discuss the account. Whilst I understand that this led to arrears letters 
being sent, I dont think this excuses the delay of several months before the account was 
marked as settled. 
I understand that the terms and conditions of Mr Ks agreement say that he shouldnt cancel 
a direct debit before receiving a termination letter from Klarna but I dont think its reasonable 
to expect Mr K to continue making direct debit payments for several months, as is the case 
here. Id expect Klarna to process a cancellation within a reasonable time. In this case, it 
took around 4 months, which I dont think is reasonable.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether Klarna has done enough by refunding the overpayments and 
correcting the credit file. But I dont think this is enough, given the delay in cancelling the 
account and the length of time Mr Ks credit file was affected. Taking all the circumstances 
into account, Im of the view that Klarna should pay compensation to Mr K for the trouble and 
upset caused to him. I think the sum suggested by the investigator is fair. I also think that 
Klarna should pay interest on the overpayments which it refunded because it took several 
months before Mr K got his payments back.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Klarna Bank AB (publ) must pay 8% simple 
interest on the payments it refunded to Mr K from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. It must also pay compensation of £250 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman