DRN-3795034
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint concerns his investment in a bond that he feels was mis-sold to him by 
Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). Mr P says, in brief, that he was persuaded to invest by misleading 
information  in particular that it had Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
protection.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr P invested in a B&G Plc Four-Year Compounding High-Yield Bond. Sales of this bond 
were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG 
Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And 
it was responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able 
to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 
to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ps investment in the bond
Mr P visited the website bassetgold.co.uk in September 2017 after seeing adverts online. 
He says he was looking to obtain a good rate of interest after having inherited some money 
from his late grandmother. At the time of application he was in his early 20s, employed and 
looking to invest £5,000 from a total of £50,000. And he was a novice investor with no 
previous experience. 
When Mr P referred his complaint to this service we asked for copies of any related call 
recordings BG Ltd held. We were provided with copies of some recordings, but not with 
relevant ones of conversations Mr P had before or during the bond application. As such, 
Ive not referred to any calls in my decision. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay 
day lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into 
administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As 
a result, Mr P has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr P says he carried out the application online. So Ive examined the online application 
process to help me reach my decision.  
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the process. These show the application 
journey that Mr P underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules 
restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where 
Mr P was categorised as everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness 
test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ps complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ps 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr P as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
However, given Mr Ps circumstances at the time and the proportion of his funds he 
was investing, the investigator was satisfied he qualified under the restricted 
investor category and was therefore eligible to receive the promotional 
communication relating to the bond. 
Having then considered whether BG Ltd tested and assessed the appropriateness of 
the bond for Mr P, the investigator didnt think it treated him fairly or acted in his best 
interests. He felt that even if Mr P passed the certification stage, he would still not 
have passed the appropriateness stage. And so, would not have been able to 
proceed to take out this bond.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mr P wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr P to invest. For these reasons, 
both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for 
Gallium to compensate Mr P for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view 
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:It noted the investigator accepted that Mr P satisfied the criteria to be certified as a 
restricted investor.
The appropriateness test answers, and confirmations provided, were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr P made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardles
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relaiton to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here.
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. In summary: 
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, provided misleading information regarding a 
category (a restricted investor) by changing the term used in the rules to everyday 
investor and describing the category as being one anyone could fall into. This was 
not treating Mr P fairly or acting in his best interests. Although Mr P might in principle 
have been potentially able to certify himself as a restricted investor, given the percentage of his net assets he invested, I dont think it necessarily follows he 
wouldve done so if the category had been properly described. However, as the 
investigator didnt consider this, Im going to focus on appropriateness.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond, regardless of the certification, was not an appropriate investment for Mr P. In 
the circumstances he would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to him.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr P would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mr P for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the 
investment.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
It is also clear that Mr P has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment. Given his circumstances, this is money Mr P cannot afford to 
lose, nor is it money he is able to replace. I do not believe Mr P foresaw such a 
drastic loss and I recognise the worry he will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I 
consider a payment of £350 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 
bondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr P agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr P that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr P would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Gallium 
Fund Solutions Limited to pay Mr P the amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman