DRN-3632811
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the way PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with a 
transaction she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In brief, Miss H explained that in February 2021 she signed up to a free trial with a merchant. 
As part of this, she set up a billing agreement via PayPal to cover any payments in case she 
kept the service after the free trial ended. However, the merchant immediately took £44.99 
from Miss Hs PayPal account, despite the free trial, which Miss H says she didnt authorise.
PayPal felt that because Miss H had set up a billing agreement for future payments, the 
merchant were effectively authorised to take as much money as they wanted whenever they 
wanted in spite of whatever Miss H had actually agreed to. So they declined to help.
After much back and forth, PayPal eventually agreed to refund the payment, but only as a 
goodwill gesture  they still felt Miss H had authorised the £44.99 that went out.
Miss H is unhappy with how she was treated in the meantime, such as being passed back 
and forth between departments and left on hold, being given incorrect advice, having to get 
her bank to block the merchant as PayPal would not at first, PayPal closing her case without 
resolving things, and so on.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss H and PayPal a provisional decision on 21 July 2022, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Both sides accept that Miss H authenticated the use of her PayPal account with the 
merchant by setting up a billing agreement. But that is not enough, on its own, for PayPal to 
have held her liable for the disputed payment. They also needed to evidence that Miss H 
consented to the transaction that was taken. Otherwise, they had to refund it when it was 
disputed, and not just later as a goodwill gesture.
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided so far, Im not persuaded that 
Miss H consented to the disputed transaction. So I currently think that PayPal were wrong to 
initially hold her liable for it.
The billing agreement that Miss H set up worked as a form of continuous payment authority, 
or CPA for short. These are recurring payments that merchants can use to take multiple 
amounts over time.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) had guidelines about how these types of payments should 
work. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has said the guidelines still apply, and I think 
they reasonably set out what good practice looks like for payments like these. Among other 
things, the guidelines say:
The customer should actively agree to the amounts and frequency of the payments. 
Its not good enough to only have an opt-out clause.
Key aspects, such as dates and amounts, must be displayed clearly and not just 
hidden in the small print.
Failure to get the customers positive, informed consent may mean the contract is 
unenforceable and the consumer is entitled to a refund of all payments.
Changes to things like the amounts or timing of payments should only be made if the 
contract specifically allows for this, or if the customer gives their consent.
In short, the merchant can only take payments that are actually due under the contract, and 
which the customer actively consented to in an informed manner. If a merchant takes a 
payment that was not due, and/or which the customer did not give their positive, informed 
consent to on signing up or when the terms are changed, then that payment is considered 
unauthorised. PayPal are mistaken in thinking that the merchant can effectively take any 
amounts at any frequency, even if it breaches the contract and the customer did not consent 
to this, and still have it be considered authorised. This should really be intuitive  it would 
clearly be unfair and unreasonable to consider a payment authorised if it was not due and 
not consented to.
PayPal have not provided any evidence to show that Miss H consented to the £44.99 
payment that was taken. Again, the fact that she set up a billing agreement is not enough on 
its own. Miss Hs testimony has been clear, consistent, and credible that she only signed up 
for a free trial, and did not consent to having a payment taken right away. I have not found 
any good reason to disbelieve her. And having looked up this merchant, I can see news 
articles and numerous reviews about them taking undue payments under free trials. It seems 
that following this and other scandals, their website was bought out by another company, 
and so it is no longer possible to see what Miss H would have seen when she signed up. So 
Ive got nothing to show that key details like dates and amounts were set out clearly, or that 
Miss H was given the proper opportunity to give active, informed consent, and so on.
So the evidence I have indicates that the disputed payment was taken without Miss Hs 
consent. And I have no evidence which reasonably substantiates that she did consent to it. It 
follows that PayPal should have refunded it in the first instance instead of sending Miss H 
round the houses beforehand. I do not think they took a reasonable approach here.
PayPal say that, as a payment service provider, they shouldnt be expected to evidence 
whether Miss H really agreed to this payment or not. But Im afraid they are mistaken. As a 
payment service provider, they are required to refund unauthorised payments. So if a 
transaction is disputed, they need to either refund it or evidence that the payment was 
authorised  including both authentication and consent. And the onus is on them to provide 
this evidence. That may mean doing things like liaising with the merchant in cases such as 
this one.Im glad that PayPal refunded the payment in the end. Miss H questioned whether the refund 
went to her PayPal account or bank account, and I can confirm it went to her bank account. 
Miss H will be able to see the refund on her bank statements for late March 2021.
However, before refunding this payment, PayPal put Miss H through a good deal of 
unnecessary stress. That needs to be put right. Looking at our guidelines for amounts of 
compensation, I think they should pay her £150 for the trouble and upset they caused in the 
way they dealt with this matter.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 August 2022. PayPal didnt add anything further. Miss H said she was pleased with the 
outcome. She said shed closed her PayPal account, so she asked for the compensation 
to be paid to her bank account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint, and direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to pay her £150 
compensation to her bank account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman