DRN-1822979
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005 when she applied for a mortgage.
What happened
In February 2005, Miss S took out a PPI policy alongside her mortgage. The policy provided 
cover if Miss S couldnt work through accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Miss S didnt agree with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. She added she was in full time employment, 
would get sick pay from her employer and had some savings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to her, so 
Ill explain why.
Miss S specifically complained that she didnt consent to PPI being added to her mortgage 
account, so she says it was added without her knowledge. However, I have seen the PPI 
application and can see Miss S signed the form for PPI to cover her. I can reasonably 
assume she could have left the form blank. So as she had a choice, I think it was clear the 
policy was optional. And signing the form was her consent to add it to her account. 
Lloyds recommended the policy to her and Ill also continue on the basis that it was an 
advised sale. For an advised sale, Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss 
Ss needs. Having looked at her circumstances at the time of the sale, I think this policy was 
suitable for her in 2005 because she was eligible to buy it, she wasnt affected by the main 
things not covered by the policy (the exclusions) and it was affordable for her.
I accept Miss S probably had employee benefits if she was off work through accident or 
sickness - similar to the kind the PPI provided. But I think the PPI cover wouldve paid out in 
addition to her sick pay and savings. So I think she could still have found the PPI useful if 
she couldnt work or lost her job. I dont think her employee benefits and savings made the 
policy unsuitable for her.
For advised sales, Lloyds also had to give Miss S enough information which was clear, fair 
and not misleading. 
I dont know how Lloyds pointed out all the exclusions and limitations. But even if Lloyds had 
made all the information clearer, I think its likely Miss S would have still bought the PPI 
because she wasnt affected by the main ones. I also looked at the cost and benefits of the policy. Even if they were not made clear, I 
havent seen anything which makes me think the policy wasnt affordable for Miss S. Having 
decided she chose to have PPI and as I think it provided a useful benefit for her  I still think 
she would have bought it even if the cost and benefits were made clearer. So I dont uphold 
this mis-sale complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman