DRN-3482490
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited rejected his claim under 
section 75.
What happened
Mr M booked a hotel and paid using his Amex credit card.
When he arrived at the hotel, Mr M was unhappy with its location. He says the hotel was 
advertised as being on or right next to the beach, but found that the beach was over 300 
metres from the hotel and that access was via steps down to the beach.
Mr M complained to the hotel but was unable to resolve matters so he contacted Amex and 
raised claim under section 75.
Amex rejected the claim. It said the location of the hotel fell within the definition on or right 
next to the beach.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the location map and the photos of the 
hotel showed that the hotel wasnt right on the beach and that it was located on top of a cliff. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable to say that a distance of 300 metres from the 
beach was next to the beach. The investigator concluded that there was no untrue statement 
of fact and therefore no misrepresentation, and said that Amex had acted fairly in declining 
the claim under section 75. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the description of the hotel as being on or next to the beach was 
the main reason he had chosen the hotel. He said there were pictures of the beach 
alongside the description of the hotel and he felt that the advertisement was misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M didnt have the holiday experience he was hoping for. However, I  
dont think Amex rejected the section 75 claim unfairly. Ill explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ms complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Amexs response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair 
or reasonable.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract.
In relation to the description of the hotel, I agree with Mr M that it is described as being 
beachfront or on or right next to the beach. Mr Ms unhappiness stems from the fact that the 
beach was 300 metres away.
Theres no legal definition of how close a hotel should be to a beach in order to be described 
as beachfront. Ive looked at definitions of beachfront in the dictionary and definitions include 
situated along or having direct access to a beach, located next to a beach and located on or 
by the beach. Taking these definitions into account, I think a reasonable person would 
expect a hotel which is described a beachfront to be on or next to a beach.
In addition, the description of the hotel booked by Mr M as beachfront has to be interpreted 
in context with all of the other information which was presented in the advertisement. 
Looking at this, I can see that theres a link to the location of the hotel on a map within the 
advertisement, and that the map shows that the hotel isnt right on the beach. There are also 
several photos of the hotel within the advertisement. I agree with Mr M that there are some 
photos of the beach, but there are also photos which show that the hotel is situated at the 
top of a cliff. So I think a reasonable person might expect that the accessing the beach from 
the hotel would involve a downwards climb.
There are also some questions and answers on the webpage. I can see that a question 
about the location of the hotel was answered in the manner that the hotel does not have a 
direct connection to the beach and that it is a 5 minute walk down the steps to the beach.
Im satisfied that all of this information was available to Mr M when he viewed the 
advertisement and booked the hotel.  Taking all of the information into account, Im not 
persuaded that theres been a misrepresentation here. I think the description of beachfront 
reasonably includes a hotel with direct access to the beach 300 metres away. The photos 
and other information make the location of the hotel reasonably clear. I think theres enough 
information on the advertisement about the location of the hotel to enable a reasonable 
person to make an informed choice.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think theres been a misrepresentation. Im unable to say 
that Amex acted unfairly in rejecting the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman