DRN-4288429
The complaint
Ms L complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of claims made 
under her home insurance after her roof leaked.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Ms L has home insurance underwritten by RSA which covers her home and its contents, 
amongst other things.
She made a claim in April 2023 after she found that water was leaking into one of the 
bedrooms in the upper storey of her house.
Ms L said the roof had likely been damaged by storms in the period just before she 
discovered the leak. There had been Met Office warnings for the area due to the arrival of 
Storm Noa. And Ms L said the area had suffered high winds and heavy rainfall at the 
relevant time.
RSA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He reported no evidence of damage 
caused by storm or any other insured event. And on that basis, RSA declined the claim as it 
related to the roof itself.
However, because Ms L had accidental damage cover included as an optional extra in her 
policy, RSA accepted the claim as regards the damage to the house internally. They offered 
£850 (after the excess had been deducted) to cover the repairs to that damage.
Ms L wasnt happy that the claim for the roof repairs and been declined and made a 
complaint to RSA. She says the loss adjuster gave several competing explanations about 
how the leak had occurred. And she said he was rude and unprofessional.
She also said the same loss adjuster had attended when she made a claim two years 
previously (in fact, in February 2021). She said hed concluded the leak on that occasion 
was due to poor maintenance or wear and tear and advised Ms L to get the roof cleaned  
because it had significant amounts of moss growing on it.
Ms L says the roofer who then cleaned the roof also advised her to replace the mortar on the 
ridge tiles, which she then commissioned him to do. 
On that occasion, RSA paid Ms L around £1,350 for internal repairs under the accidental 
damage cover included in her policy. 
RSA didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. They said the damage to the roof wasnt covered 
because there was no insured event that could have caused the damage.
Ms L wasnt happy with this outcome, so she brought her complaint to us. She wants RSA to 
pay for the roof repairs currently required  shes sent us an estimate from a local roofer at 
just over £1,400. She also wants them to pay for the roof repairs and cleaning carried out in 
2021  at a cost of almost £750.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong in declining the 
recent claim as it related to the roof itself, or in the way theyd handled the previous claim in 
2021.
Ms L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what the policy terms say or mean. Ms L is covered for 
damage caused by certain defined insured events or perils, such as storm. She isnt covered 
for damage caused by wear and tear or, simply, ageing  or by lack of maintenance.
These policy terms arent unfair  insurance isnt there to pay for things that have simply 
gone past their useful life or worn out. Nor are they unusual  most if not all home insurance 
policies of this type will not pay out to replace things that have deteriorated over time.
RSA have paid out (in 2021) for damage to the inside of the home - and have offered at least 
to pay out for internal damage in 2023. This is because Ms L opted to take out cover for 
accidental damage  and no-one is suggesting that she or anyone else purposely damaged 
the walls and dcor inside her house on either occasion.
So, RSA have acted fairly in settling  or offering to settle  those parts of the claims. Ms L 
has recently told us she thinks the offer of £850 to cover the damage caused in April 2023 is 
insufficient. However, she didnt raise that point as part of her complaint to RSA or in her 
initial complaint to us.
That means I cant consider that complaint point in this decision. The rules which govern the 
way we operate  the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (or DISP) rules - say 
we cant consider a complaint unless and until the business which is subject to the complaint 
has had an opportunity to resolve it with their customer themselves. We have absolutely no 
discretion to ignore those rules.
If Ms L wants to raise a complaint with RSA about the settlement offer for the internal 
damage in April 2023, she is entitled to do so. And if shes not happy with RSAs response, 
she can bring that complaint to us. But I cant look at that complaint now.
Going back to the damage to the roof itself, as I say, the policy terms are clear  and fair and 
reasonable. If Storm Noa, or other severely adverse weather conditions, caused the damage 
to the roof which led to the leak, then RSA should cover the cost of the repairs to the roof. 
Storm is an insured event under the terms of the policy.
But if the damage was caused by wear and tear, ageing and/or gradual deterioration, Ms L 
would not be covered for the repairs to the roof.
A storm is defined in the policy  perfectly reasonably  as a weather event severe enough 
that it may cause damage to otherwise sound and well-maintained buildings. 
Weve looked at the weather records for Ms Ls area in the week she made the claim and the 
week before that. By any reasonable definition, there are no storms in the area over that period. Wind speeds and rainfall are not severe enough that they might cause damage to 
buildings.
Storm Noa hit the UK around 10-12 days before Ms L noticed the leak and made the claim. 
And it was most severe in other areas of the UK. Its conceivable that wind speeds in Ms Ls 
area at around that time may just about have reached the threshold for us to say there were 
storm conditions. RSAs final response to Ms Ls complaint suggests wind spends reached 
over 50 miles per hour 12 days before the claim was made.
It seems to me unlikely that Storm Noa caused the damage to the roof that only showed as a 
leak almost two weeks later. Ms L implies that insulation in her roof may have absorbed the 
water for a period of time. 
I think thats unlikely, but I dont think it matters in the final analysis. I say that because even 
if there was a storm, an insured event, in the relevant period, the damage which has caused 
the leak in Ms Ls roof was most likely not caused by a storm. Ill explain why Ive come to 
that conclusion.
Ms L has provided an estimate for repairs from a local roofer. This says an inspection of the 
loft shows water marks on the hip beam and valley. It says there is no cement where the roof 
hips join, and the valley needs to be investigated after cleaning. The work so far identified  
and costed - involves cleaning and re-bedding all the hips and ridges to the main roof as well 
as cleaning the valley of moss (which may lead to further repairs being identified).
On balance its extraordinarily unlikely that Storm Noa  or any other weather event  
caused the cement in some areas of the roof hip to disappear altogether and the cement in 
other areas to need replacing. And individual storms didnt cause moss to grow in the roof 
valley.
Im satisfied then that on balance its highly unlikely the damage to the roof was caused by 
an insured event. Its more likely age or deterioration in the cement holding the roof tiles in 
place. And its certainly not unreasonable or unfair for RSA to assume that the damage 
wasnt caused by an insured event, on the basis of the evidence they currently have. 
So, I cant reasonably conclude that RSA have acted in any way unfairly in declining the 
current claim for repairs to the roof itself.
Ms L hasnt fully explained why she thinks the previous claim, in 2021, is relevant. I assume 
she thinks that either the problem wasnt diagnosed properly in 2021, so necessary repairs 
werent carried out  and this led to the more recent problems  and/or the repairs in both 
2021 and 2023 should be covered because they are all related to damage caused by 
storms.
As Ive already said, I dont believe the 2023 damage was primarily caused by a storm, 
although it is possible of course that heavy rainfall highlighted the existing issues with the 
roof.
I cant say it was unreasonable for RSA to decline the claim in 2021 either. The roofer who 
cleaned the roof identified a problem with the mortar on the ridge tiles and replaced it. That 
problem was most likely caused by gradual deterioration or ageing and wasnt the kind of 
damage that would be caused by a storm. 
It wasnt for RSA at the time to tell Ms L exactly what repairs were needed. Their loss 
adjusters job was to determine whether the damage was covered. He gave some advice  
about the moss on the roof  which was sound. And theres no reasonable reading of the policy which would suggest RSA should have paid to clear the roof of moss. When the moss 
was cleared, the roofer identified the problem with the ridge. 
If the roofer  contracted and paid for by Ms L  didnt replace the ridge mortar very well (the 
current estimate suggests replacing it) and/or didnt identify that the same problems had 
already occurred - or were likely to occur - on the hip and valley (the current problem areas 
or potential problem areas), then thats not something for which RSA can reasonably be held 
responsible. Nor can RSA be blamed if the moss has returned in the roof valley.
In short, the problems Ms L has unfortunately experienced in 2021 and 2023 appear to be in 
all likelihood the result of an ageing roof and deteriorating mortar on the hip, ridge and 
valley. The fact that the mortar in all of those areas has needed replacing within a short 
space of time (at most two years) supports the idea that age and deterioration is the issue 
rather than damage caused by storm.
Ms L said RSAs appointed loss adjuster was rude and unprofessional in the way he dealt 
with her claim. Weve listened to all available recordings of the relevant conversations and 
theres no evidence of that at all.
I am very sorry to hear about the problems Ms L has experienced with her roof. These things 
will always be difficult and stressful, particularly when we rely entirely on experts to identify 
the cause of any problems and to tell us what needs to be done to put things right.
But I cant reasonably say that RSA have done anything wrong in the way they handled the 
two claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman