DRN-4236876
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the settlement she has been paid on a claim involving her dog and 
she thinks her pet insurance policy was mis-sold. She had a policy underwritten by HDI 
Global Specialty SE (HDI). Some correspondence related to the complaint was written by a 
representative, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Miss B.
What happened
Miss B bought her policy via a comparison website. Unfortunately, Miss B had to make a 
claim when she required diagnostic testing and treatment for her dog. She provided receipts 
for all the costs she incurred.
HDI reviewed all the information Miss B provided. But HDI would only cover part of the costs 
from the claim. It said there were limits on the policy for certain types of claims, and it said it 
had paid a fair settlement in line with these limits and the terms and conditions of the policy.
Miss B feels she was mis-sold the policy as it was advertised as a Lifetime Gold standard 
of cover, which she said provided headline cover of up to £15,000. Shes unhappy HDI have 
applied limits to her claim and thinks theyve unfairly bundled in the cost of diagnostic tests 
for her dogs cruciate ligament injury. She said the policy set out a different limit for 
diagnostic tests. She wants her claim paid in full and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that has been caused.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt think HDI had mis-sold the 
policy and thought it had dealt fairly with Miss Bs claim. He reviewed the policy and thought 
HDI had applied the terms and conditions, including the policy limits fairly. Miss B disagreed, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I start this decision  I want to clarify that Miss B has raised a separate complaint 
(about a declined claim). I wont discuss this complaint here as I dont have jurisdiction to do 
so  this will be dealt with separately once HDI has had the opportunity to provide a final 
response. I will only look at the claim relating to the dogs right sided limb and Miss Bs 
feelings that she was mis-sold the policy.
The policy was purchased online via a comparison website, without any discussions with 
HDI or its agents. So, I cant say Miss B was misadvised. Ive reviewed the documentation 
that was available to Miss B when she bought her policy. The key documents Miss B 
wouldve had access to were: the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), the Policy 
Schedule and the Policy itself.
When making the application for the insurance product, I can see Miss B ticked a box to 
confirm she had read the Policy and the IPID. Therefore, I think its fair for HDI to have 
assumed Miss B was familiar with these documents. If she had any questions, she couldve 
contacted HDI to ask these. I think the terms and conditions and policy limits that HDI 
applied are consistent with the key documents Miss B said she had read, so I dont think its 
reasonable to say the policy was mis-sold.
Ive considered the claim itself. Miss Bs complaint is that a cost limit applies for her claim 
which is for her dogs cruciate injury treatment and diagnostic testing. HDI when assessing 
the claim bundled the diagnostic testing costs under the same limit as the cruciate injury 
treatment, so reducing the overall value of the potential settlement. Miss B said shes spoken 
to several experts who have said this is ridiculous and theyve laughed at it. However, it 
really depends on Miss Bs own circumstances and what the policy sets out is covered.
An insurer will cover several risks and scenarios when they say they will insure a pet, but 
most policies will include exclusions on circumstances the insurer isnt happy to provide 
cover or policy limits which reduces their exposure. In return for this, the insurer accepts a 
premium from the policyholder. If insurers offered limitless cover, the premiums would be 
much higher  so they try to offer reasonable cover at a pragmatic cost. Its essentially a 
commercial decision for the insurer and a prospective policyholder can shop around and buy 
a policy that suits them at a price thats affordable.
Ive reviewed Miss Bs policy to see what it states in respect to cover for cruciate injury 
treatment. The policy states the total limit for cruciate treatment as £2,000 and it continues if 
treatment of a claim involving a cruciate(s) includes a CT or MRI scan, those costs will 
contribute towards this overall benefit limit. Therefore, I think its fair of HDI to bundle any 
costs relating to CT or MRI scans under the cruciate injury limit.
As the policy is clear on the limit for cruciate ligament treatment, I think its fair that HDI has 
applied limit less the applicable excess payments that Miss B asked for when she purchased 
her policy.
Miss B has provided evidence that she had a consultation and X-ray for her dog. And she 
thinks these costs should be covered separately by the Specialist Diagnostics limit on the 
policy. Having checked the policy Specialist Diagnostics is defined tightly as MRI and CT 
scans. So, I dont think this part of the policy was intended to cover the costs Miss B 
incurred. I think HDI has been fair to include these costs within the cruciate ligament 
treatment limit as Miss Bs vet diagnosed the issue as a ruptured cruciate ligament injury.
I know this will be disappointing to Miss B, but I dont uphold this complaint. I think HDI has 
acted fairly and applied the terms and conditions of the policy that Miss B chose. A policy 
isnt necessarily designed to cover all costs. Miss Bs policy covers up to £15,000 per annum 
but has separate limits for each course of treatment. She could make multiple claims for 
various treatments up to £15,000, but she is only covered for up to £2,000 per annum for 
cruciate ligament treatment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require HDI Global Specialty SE 
to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman