DRN-2849135
The complaint
Mr H complains esure Insurance Limited delayed in confirming his car was a total loss and in 
giving him a valuation when he claimed on his car insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 October 2020, Mr H notified esure of a claim on his car insurance. 
On 14 October, esures agent took Mr Hs car away to assess the damage. Esure told Mr H 
its engineers would aim to contact him within 5 working days to confirm its assessment. 
It wasnt until 28 October that esure confirmed to Mr H his car was total loss. 
Mr H complained, saying he relied on his car to get to and from work and the prolonged 
delay made it extremely difficult for him. He also said hed had to make some calls to chase 
for updates.
Esure said thered been an unnecessary delay in getting some images its engineers needed 
to complete the assessment from its agent. It said it had given feedback to the agent and, as 
an apology, paid Mr H £150 for the distress and inconvenience the delay had caused him.
Unhappy with the compensation offered, Mr H brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
who looked at it didnt think esure had treated Mr H unfairly. Mr H disagrees and has asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Mr H made a separate complaint about esures valuation of his car, on which hes had an 
answer from us that I believe hes accepted. And, following our investigators view on this 
complaint, Mr H has also raised two more issues, which it seems he may want to complain 
to esure about. But, just to be clear, my decision here is only about Mr Hs complaint about 
delays in esures assessment of the damage to his car and its impact on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Any accident with or damage to a car inevitably causes its owner some distress and 
inconvenience.
In this case, esure added to Mr Hs distress and inconvenience by taking longer than it had 
told him it aimed to take to assess the damage to his car. Esure says it was reliant on getting 
images from its agent to complete its assessment. And it says it notified Mr H of the 
assessment promptly when it got them. 
Its clear from what Ive already said that esures delay caused Mr H distress and 
inconvenience over and above that of having the accident with his car. Esure has accepted 
this. And I think the compensation of £150 it has paid Mr H  along with its apology and the 
feedback its given to its agent  fairly and reasonably compensates Mr H for the distress 
and inconvenience hes described.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman