DRN-3205151
The complaint
Miss K complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, referred to as Aviva, failed to 
notify her that her investment had ended. 
She says Aviva moved her money into a Deposit Fund after maturity and charged her an 
annual fee without her consent.   
What happened
In October 2009, Aviva set up an investment in response to an application by Miss K, 
through her financial adviser. She was advised to invest £50,000 in the Aviva Guaranteed 
Fund for a term of five years.
Aviva says that in July 2014 it sent Miss K (and her adviser) anniversary letters, reminding 
her that the bond was coming to an end and that she needed to choose another fund to 
invest in. But Miss K maintains that she didnt receive the letter or any subsequent annual 
statements. 
In due course, in October 2014 the bond matured. Because Aviva didnt receive any 
instructions from Miss K, it moved the money into the Deposit Fund. 
Miss K says she didnt know anything about this until she called Aviva recently to enquire 
about the value of her investment. To put things right, shed like Aviva to refund the Annual 
Management Charge (AMC) shes been paying since 2014. 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
In July 2014, it wrote to Miss K and her adviser, informing her that the fund was 
coming to an end. It gave her several options about what she could do and made 
clear what would happen if it didnt receive instructions from her. The letter also 
made clear that the Deposit Fund was unlikely to be suitable as a long-term home for 
her money. 
Because it didnt receive any instructions from her, on the anniversary of the fifth 
year, her money was placed in the Deposit Fund  where money is usually held in 
the short term, at an AMC of 1.25% of the value. 
Annual statements were sent to Miss K since October 2014, showing her the value of 
her bond and advising her to review her fund. 
Although Miss K says she didnt receive the anniversary letter or subsequent 
statements, they were all sent to her at the correct address. 
It also called Miss K twice on 18 August 2014, but had no luck getting through to her. 
The policy conditions  under the heading Guaranteed Fund  advised that at the 
fifth anniversary, unless instructed otherwise, the value would be placed in its 
Deposit Fund. Therefore, in doing so, it hasnt acted outside of its conditions. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
On the face of the evidence, shes satisfied that Aviva wrote to Miss K in July 2014 
making clear the options available to her upon the maturity of her bond. 
The anniversary letter also made clear that Miss Ks money would be placed in the 
Deposit Fund  suitable as a short-term measure  if it didnt receive any instructions 
from her.
Annual statements sent to Miss K thereafter, made clear that her money was being 
held in the deposit account and that charges applied.  
Aviva sent Miss K correspondence over the years asking her to get in touch to 
discuss her account. Although Miss K feels it shouldve done more, shes unable to 
say that Aviva behaved unreasonably.  
The conditions  which Miss K agreed to before taking out the investment  made 
clear what would happen to her money invested in the Guaranteed Fund if it didnt 
receive any instructions from her. 
Having reviewed the call dated 5 March 2021, she cant say that the operative 
behaved unreasonably. In the circumstances, shes not persuaded that Aviva didnt 
tell her what was happening before this call.    
Miss K disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she maintains that she didnt receive the response, and the advisor who sold her 
the bond is no longer working at the (third-party) business. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss K says, I cant safely say 
that Aviva behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Miss Ks strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her, and Aviva, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I 
must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice. But its for me to 
decide, based on the available information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.
Despite what Miss K says, Im persuaded that Aviva sent her (and her adviser) the 
anniversary letter  dated July 2014  informing her that the fund was coming to an end, and 
that she had to decide what to do with her money. I note that she was given the following 
options:
Re-invest her money into the latest version of the Guaranteed Fund.
Move her money into any other available fund.Take some, or all of her money, and reinvest the remainder
The letter also made clear that if it didnt hear back from Miss K by October 2014, Aviva 
would automatically move her money into the Deposit Fund. Given the term of her 
investment, Im satisfied that Miss K was given enough time to decide what to do once the 
fund came to an end. 
I appreciate Miss K says she didnt receive the anniversary letter. Its possible that there was 
an issue with the post  although Ive seen no evidence that there was. But even if there was 
an issue with the post, I still cant hold Aviva responsible for the actions of a third-party 
postal service. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the letter wasnt sent. When a (third party) business 
provides evidence that a letter had been written, correctly addressed and sent, this service 
generally would accept that position. In this case Im satisfied the anniversary letter was 
correctly addressed and sent to Miss K, to the same address Aviva had on file. And despite 
what Miss K says, I think its unlikely that she wouldnt have received the anniversary letter 
and/or any of the numerous annual statements subsequently sent. 
Im also mindful that Aviva says it called Miss K, twice, in August 2014  a month after 
sending the anniversary letter and two months before the end of the fund  but couldnt get 
through to her. In the circumstances, I dont think Aviva was reasonably required to do 
anymore. 
Whilst I appreciate what Miss K says about obtaining her consent, on balance Im satisfied 
that Aviva had already obtained her permission, by virtue of her agreement to the conditions 
of the investment, prior to her going ahead with it. So, in the circumstances I dont think 
Aviva needed to seek her consent again  and hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so 
 before going ahead with the default action. 
I note the Policy Conditions under section seven, subsection (d), entitled Guaranteed 
Fund, state:
On the Guarantee Date, the Guaranteed Fund Units will be cancelled by the Company
in exchange for an allocation of Units of the same value in such Funds, other than the
Guaranteed Fund, as the Policyholder decides. If the Policyholder fails to nominate a Fund
prior to the Guarantee Date, Units will be allocated in the Deposit Fund or such other Fund
as the Company may reasonably decide.
In this instance Im also satisfied that the subsequent annual statements sent to Miss K 
made clear where her money was and what the charges were. If Miss K didnt read the 
statements containing this information, I cant blame Aviva for this. 
I appreciate what Miss K says she thought would happen, but Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Aviva told her, or gave her the impression, that her money would simply roll over each 
year. So, in the circumstances I cant say that Miss K was misled about what might happen 
to her money at the end of her investment term.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that Miss K ought reasonably to have 
known that her money would be held in the Deposit Fund if she didnt provide Aviva with 
instructions about what to do. Therefore, I cant say that Aviva has done anything wrong by 
doing what it said it would and charging an AMC for keeping her money in the Deposit Fund. I appreciate Miss K will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and I havent given her what she wants. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im 
afraid Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman