DRN-3159804
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined 
its application for a Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr N is one of Ts directors and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
T banked with Barclays and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. 
Barclays declined Ts application. The bank referred Mr N to agencies that provided 
information used by the bank when carrying out checks on the application, such as the 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS).
Mr N contacted Barclays in January 2021 with a view to submitting a new application for T. 
Barclays advised that the marker preventing Ts application from succeeding had now been 
removed, so Mr N submitted a second application. But this was again declined.
When Mr N complained, Barclays said that both applications had been correctly declined in 
line with its internal checks. But the bank acknowledged that it had mismanaged Mr Ns 
expectations in suggesting that the second application may succeed  and that it had 
continue to refer Mr N to CIFAS, even after receiving confirmation that no information about 
him was held on record there. It offered £150 compensation for this.
Mr N remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said that Barclays didnt have 
valid grounds to have declined Ts Bounce Back Loan application, as he had confirmation 
from CIFAS and other agencies that no adverse information was held on file about him.
One of our investigators looked into Ts complaint. She didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong in declining Ts Bounce Back Loan applications, which had both failed the 
checks that the bank was required to undertake. While the finer detail of the banks reasons 
couldnt be shared, she highlighted that the checks were on T as the applicant rather than 
Mr N in isolation. She agreed that errors were made in how Barclays had handled Ts 
second application, but thought the £150 it had already offered was fair compensation for 
any inconvenience this had caused.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators view. He said that T had done all that Barclays had 
asked  and obtained confirmation that no adverse information was registered with any 
external agencies. He suspected that Barclays decision was based on records of a previous 
director, whod failed to be removed from the banks records despite the companys request. 
So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Lenders are required to carry out certain checks on applications for a Bounce Back Loan, 
including fraud, anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks. Barclays says it 
declined Ts applications because it failed those checks. Ive reviewed the basis of the 
banks decision, and I think it was reasonable.
Mr N has evidenced the lack of adverse information held about him with the relevant 
agencies but the banks checks were not limited solely to him. Looking at the banks records, 
Im satisfied that Barclays reached its decision based on information relating to T and the 
directors in post at the time  and that it was not down to any records relating to a previous 
director as Mr N has suggested.
I appreciate why it is hard for Mr N to accept Barclays decision in light of the above and as 
the bank hasnt explained its reasons. But for the reasons Ive explained, the bank 
reasonably decided that T wasnt eligible  and its not required to share any more detail 
about the reasons for this than it already has. I cant fairly require that it do so. All I can do is 
reassure Mr N that Ive carefully considered the banks actions and am satisfied that it did 
not make an error when reviewing either of Ts applications.
I can also see how Barclays decision to decline the second application will be even harder 
to accept given the banks comments to Mr N around the time it was submitted. It is 
accepted that Barclays was inappropriately optimistic about the second application 
succeeding and that it ought not to have referred Mr N back to CIFAS given it was already 
apparent that this wasnt going to affect things. While none of this changes the fact that the 
decision to decline Ts application was correct, it did put the company to some 
inconvenience  in spending time and effort following up on matters. And its right that T is 
compensated for this. To that end, I think the £150 already offered is fair  so thats what I 
think Barclays should pay to put things right.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 compensation to settle Ts 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay £150 to T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman