DRN-3642582
The complaint
Company K complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) have unfairly declined its 
Contractors All Risks claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Company K submitted a claim after flooding caused damage 
to a site road it was constructing in November 2019.
Zurich declined the claim, however, as the insurer had consulted an independent engineer 
(Hawkins) who considered the damage to the tarmac was due to pre-existing deficiencies 
in the sub-base of the road. Zurich cited an exclusion for the cost of property insured which 
is in a defective condition as a result of defect in design or workmanship.
Our investigator didnt uphold Company Ks complaint. He considered that Zurich had 
declined the claim fairly as it had relied on an expert report with regards to the likely cause of 
the damage. Company K disagreed and provided a copy of its own engineers report, but the 
investigator didnt think this would outweigh the findings of the independent engineer. As it 
disagreed with this, the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. I said I was minded to uphold 
it, and set out the following reasoning:
The All Risks policy terms and conditions state that Zurich will cover
Damage to the Property Insured occurring within the territorial limits in the course of 
the business during the period of Insurance.
Company K submit that both the sub-base and the part of the tarmac base layer of 
the road both form part of the Property Insured. Zurich have also accepted that the 
insuring clause operates in these circumstances, so this is not in dispute. However, 
Zurich have declined the claim in reliance upon an exclusion clause which sets out 
that they will not cover: 
10, the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying that part of any
a) Property Insured which is in a defective condition due to a defect in design 
plan specification materials or workmanship of such Property Insured 
b) other Property Insured lost or damaged to enable the repair replacement or 
rectification of Property Insured excluded by 10(a) above. 
This exception will not apply to other Property Insured which is free of the defective 
condition but is damaged as a consequence thereof
So, Ive considered whether Zurich has demonstrated, with enough evidence, that 
the exclusion clause applies in the circumstances of Company Ks claim, and that 
they have therefore declined the claim fairly.
Following a visit to the site by Zurichs loss adjuster, an independent report was 
carried out by forensic investigators (Hawkins), which states that the defects 
identified in the tarmac were:
most likely to have been caused by the base course being laid on a wet and 
unstable sub-base
when the tarmac was laid, no measures were in place to ensure that surface 
water would not simply drain off of the public highway and onto either the sub-base 
or the base course itself. 
The independent engineer ultimately concluded:
I consider the failure of the tarmac base coursewas as a result of pre-existing and 
pre-identified deficiencies in the sub-base. In particular, I anticipate that the failure to 
remove saturated sub-base material identified in the comments associated with the 
first photograph in the Tarmac Issues document.
I consider it highly unlikely that an escape of water of sufficient severity to cause 
deficiencies in the sub-base occurred from OCCs highway drainage system as a 
result of the low rainfall that occurred. 
So, he was of the opinion that a defective sub-base was the cause of the problems 
with the tarmac. 
I appreciate that Company K strenuously refutes this and has submitted its own 
thoughts and opinions on what the cause of the tarmac problems were, which it has 
put down to drain blockage. However, it is not the role of this service to determine the 
likely cause of the damage, as this would be a matter for qualified experts and or the 
courts to decide. What I can consider is whether Zurich have declined the claim fairly 
by relying on the Hawkins report rather than Company Ks own opinion/report.
The independent expert found it highly unlikely that an escape of water from the 
drainage system caused the deficiencies in the sub-base. Since bringing its 
complaint to this service, Company K has submitted its own engineers report, which 
states the cause of the damage as being due to water escaping from a surcharged 
highway drain rather than defective workmanship. However, Zurich have said this 
has not changed it decision to decline the claim. 
So, there are now two contrary conclusions reached by different engineers. But I note 
that the report submitted by Company Ks engineer, while detailed, has been 
compiled by an employee of theirs who was involved in the design of the drainage of 
the estate roads. And while I appreciate this will give him a good understanding of 
the site in general, the engineer cannot be said to be independent or impartial in this 
matter, particularly as he was an employee of Company K. So, I dont consider his 
report can reasonably carry more weight than that of the independent engineer at 
Hawkins who had no interest and/or involvement in the project. So, theres currently 
no basis on which to conclude that Zurich were incorrect to rely on the findings of the 
Hawkins engineer.
I also appreciate the Hawkins report was a desktop investigation and that they did 
not physically inspect the road. However, it was still a comprehensive 40-page report based on the evidence provided by the loss adjusters, who had physically inspected 
the site. This included video clips, photographs, site diaries, plans, maps and other 
reports. It had been issued by an appropriately qualified expert who, if they were not 
able to reach a conclusion based on the evidence provided, would have most likely 
said so. But that was not the case in this instance.  
I note that Zurich also passed Company Ks submissions on to Hawkins for further 
consideration following the report being issued, but the independent engineer issued 
a follow up report on 5 October 2020 stating that that the submissions had not altered 
his preliminary conclusions on the likely cause of the failure of the tarmac. So I dont 
consider it can be said that Zurich have unreasonably and blindly relied on the 
Hawkins report either, without taking into account any of Company Ks opinions or 
giving it a right to comment on the findings.
The insurer is not a construction expert, and generally this service would consider it 
fair for the insurer to rely on the findings of appropriately qualified experts, unless 
there is anything to suggest that the findings were patently wrong. But, there is 
nothing in this case to suggest that the engineers conclusions were obviously wrong. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that the circumstances of Company Ks claim fall within the 
scope of the exclusion, as the engineers report shows there is property insured (i.e. 
the sub-base) that was in a defective condition due to a defect in design, plan 
specification, materials or workmanship.
However, Im not persuaded the exclusion entitles Zurich to decline the entirety of 
Company Ks claim. There is a limitation that forms part of the exclusion, which 
states:
This exception will not apply to other Property Insured which is free of the defective 
condition but is damaged as a consequence thereof
Its clear from the report that it was only the sub-base layer of the road that was 
defective, which caused issues with the tarmac base course once it was laid on top. 
So the question here is whether the tarmac layer can reasonably be considered as 
other property insured to the sub-base.
Zurich have said that the correct analysis here is to consider the road as one entire 
entity, and that it would be artificial to be splitting it up into its constituent parts. But I 
do not consider this position takes account of the relevant case law on this point.
In the Court of Appeal case of CA Blackwell (Contractors) Ltd v Gerling Allegemeine 
Verischerungs  AG [2007] EWCA Civ 1450, Lord Justice Tuckey stated that the 
wording of such clauses draws a distinction between property insured and other 
property insured, and that:
This suggests and indeed requires divisibility. 
This case concerned a similar scenario of a road being damaged during its 
construction. He went on to say:
One might argue in this case that the property insured refers to the entirety of the 
earthworks. But that cannot be what was intended by this wording. I think it must be 
restricted to that part of the works which has suffered damage.
So, in light of this judgment, I do not consider Zurich can reasonably maintain their position of seeing the insured property as the entirety of the road and all its 
constituent layers. Zurich gave the example (also used within the Blackwell 
judgment) of the steel framework of a building being separate property insured to 
the roof, cladding and brick walls. The insurer says Company Ks claim is different to 
the steel frame example, but it hasnt explained how. In the same way that Zurich 
consider all the constituent parts and layers of a road to be one thing, it could just as 
easily be said that all the divisible components of a structure simply form one 
building and therefore cannot be considered as other property insured. But that is 
not how the courts have allowed this exclusion to be applied. 
In this instance, Im not persuaded Zurich have reasonably demonstrated that the 
tarmac and sub-base are the same property. They are different components in the 
construction of a road. Different contractors can presumably be hired to carry out the 
works on each part of the road building process, and the tarmac was delivered 
separately to be laid on top of the sub-base which was already in situ. A distinction 
was also drawn in the Blackwell case between the sub-formation and the capping 
layer of the road, where it was considered whether either were defective. The court 
did not treat them as one and the same thing just because it would eventually end up 
as one road. 
So, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable for Zurich to treat the defective 
sub-base and the tarmac base course as the same property insured in these 
circumstances. According to the Hawkins engineer, it was only the sub-base that was 
defective, so this should be the only property insured excluded under the policy. The 
tarmac that was damaged as a result of being laid on the defective sub-base would 
therefore fall within the exclusion limitation; that being other property insured which 
is free of the defective condition but is damaged as a consequence thereof. 
I therefore intend directing Zurich to reassess the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and conditions, as I do not think it has handled the claim fairly by 
excluding the entirety of Company Ks losses. 
I invited further comments and evidence in response to my findings. Company K responded 
accepting my provisional proposals. However, it added that its engineer who compiled its 
report was not an employee and was an independent consultant who had previously been 
engaged to help with the drainage of the project. It also provided a breakdown of its costs 
being claimed, and also explained the detrimental impact Zurichs handling of the claim had 
had on its directors health. Zurich did not provide any further comments or evidence for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Company K has accepted my provisional findings  and given Zurich failed to 
respond  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
In response to Company Ks comments, Im grateful for its clarification of its engineers 
employment status. I referred to him as an employee to reflect the terminology used in his 
report:
[Company K] employed me to design the drainage and estate roads for the subject 
development.  I accept that he wouldnt legally be considered an employee given the nature of the work 
he carried out as Company K has described. But this still doesnt change the fact that he 
was nevertheless involved in the design and drainage of the estate roads that formed the 
subject of Company Ks claim. So Im still not persuaded he can be considered as 
independent and impartial in this matter given the interest he had in it. This therefore does 
not change my conclusions. 
I note that Company K has also submitted its costs to this service for consideration. 
However, the direction in my provisional decision was for Zurich to reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. Any such costs should therefore be 
submitted to the insurer to consider as part of the claim; I cannot pre-empt what costs should 
and should not be covered under the policy, as this will be dependent on the remaining 
policy terms and conditions. However, if Company K subsequently has any further concerns 
about Zurichs reconsideration of its claim and settlement, it will be entitled to raise a further 
complaint.
Finally, Im sorry to hear about the impact this has had on the health of Company Ks 
director. He has put forward reasons for an award in recognition of the stress, aggravation, 
and sufferance he has experienced as a result of Zurichs handling of the claim. However, 
while I do not doubt the impact this has had on the director, he is not the complainant in this 
case; it is the limited company. This service does not make awards for pain, suffering or 
distress to limited companies, as it is not a physical person capable of experiencing or 
feeling such things. I therefore cannot make any award of compensation to Company K due 
to the suffering experienced by its director. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Zurich Insurance PLC to 
reconsider Company Ks claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman