DRN-2749514
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that NewDay Ltd increased the credit limit on her account when such an 
increase was unaffordable for her.  
What happened
In February 2019 Ms R opened a credit account with NewDay. The credit account had an 
initial credit limit of £450. Ms R has confirmed that this credit limit was affordable for her at 
that time.
In May 2019, NewDay sent a letter to Ms R advising that they were increasing her credit limit 
to £1,200. Ms R was experiencing issues with her mental health at that time and was not 
working because of this. This contributed to Ms R not being able to meet the required 
payments on the credit account, and her account was eventually defaulted by NewDay 
because of this.
Ms R wasnt happy that NewDay had increased her credit limit at a time when she was 
vulnerable and couldnt afford it, so she made a complaint. NewDay looked at Ms Rs 
complaint, but they felt that that had acted appropriately and had conducted reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before offering the credit limit increase. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that NewDay hadnt conducted 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before offering the credit limit to Ms R, so 
they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ms Rs favour on that basis.  
NewDay didnt agree with the recommendation made by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay have explained that their business model includes monitoring their customers 
account management and usage and offering credit limit increases to customers, where 
appropriate, based in part on how a customer has managed their account in the time period 
leading up to the offer, and on an affordability assessment at that time.
It isnt for this service to advise a business regarding their operational model or business 
policies, but it is within our remit to make a decision on whether those policies have been 
applied appropriately in specific instances and whether or not they have led to a fair outcome 
for the customer involved.
In this instance, its immediately striking that NewDay offered a credit limit increase to Ms R 
only three months after the credit account was first opened, and that the credit limit increase 
was significant, rising from £450 to £1200  an increase of 166%.
What this service would expect here is that NewDay would be able to demonstrate not only 
that Ms R could afford the credit limit increase by reference to her wider circumstances at 
that time, but also that her account management in the preceding months was such that 
such a credit limit increase offer was justified. And, ultimately, Im not satisfied that NewDay 
have met either of these criteria in this instance. 
NewDay have explained that they conducted an affordability assessment of Ms Rs financial 
circumstances and that this assessment confirmed that Ms R could afford the higher credit 
limit being offered. But this affordability assessment was based entirely on information taken 
from third party sources, such as credit reference agencies, and didnt involve contacting Ms 
R directly to confirm what her current financial status was with herself.
Had it been the case that NewDay had contacted Ms R directly, its likely that their decision 
to offer the credit limit increase to Ms R may have changed. And I say this because Ms R 
wasnt working at that time, having been signed off from work because she was struggling 
with mental health issues, and Ms R has provided payslips from that period which 
demonstrate the reduced income that she was receiving, and which confirm that she was in 
receipt of statutory sick pay.
NewDay have argued that there was no requirement for them to contact Ms R directly to 
conduct an affordability assessment, and have quoted the following clause from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer Credit (CONC) Sourcebook:
CONC 5.2A.7(R)
A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
(1) Of which it is aware at the time that the creditworthiness assessment is carried out.
(2) Obtained, where appropriate, from the customer and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency and the information must enable the firm to carry out a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment.
Im in agreement with NewDay that this clause is of relevance here, but Im not convinced 
that the above clause legitimises NewDay to conduct affordability assessments without 
contacting the customer to obtain the relevant information.
I say this because the clause clearly states that the information should be obtained, where 
appropriate, from the customer, and, where necessary, from a credit reference agency. And I 
dont feel that it was necessary to use a credit reference agency to obtain this information, 
and rather that it was appropriate to obtain such information, if possible, from the customer. 
And, as explained above, had NewDay contacted Ms R here, as I feel was appropriate, its 
likely that they would have learned of the issues that Ms R was facing at that time and that 
their decision to offer a credit limit increase to Ms R may well have been impacted as a 
result.
It also must be noted that in the short time that Ms R had held the account  which was the 
time period for which she was being assessed by NewDay - she had exceeded the credit 
limit and taken a cash advance from the card, with the cash advance being taken very soon 
after the credit account had been opened.
Its clear to me that Ms Rs management of her account here should have given NewDay 
cause for concern, at least to the degree where they should have widened the scope of their 
affordability checks to ensure that they werent in danger of lending irresponsibly.All of which means that its difficult not to conclude that NewDay shouldnt have offered the 
credit limit increase to Ms R that they did here. And Im satisfied that an unfair outcome  Ms 
R being offered a credit limit increase that she couldnt reasonably afford  took place as a 
result.
It follows then that I will be upholding this complaint in Ms Rs favour on this basis. I realise 
that this wont be the outcome that NewDay were wanting here, but I hope that they can 
understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have reached the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
NewDay must recall or repurchase Ms Rs account from the company with which it currently 
resides.
NewDay must reimburse all interest, fees and charges incurred on the account from the time 
of the credit limit increase to date. 
If this results in a credit balance in Ms Rs favour, NewDay must pay this balance to Ms R 
along with 8% simple interest calculated from the dates of the interest or fees being 
reimbursed.
If an outstanding balance remains on the account, NewDay must arrange a suitable payment 
arrangement with Ms R based on her income and expenditure at this time.
If Ms Rs account is to remain operational, NewDay must reduce the credit limit back to £450 
and work with Ms R on the basis explained above to bring her balance within that limit, if its 
the case that the outstanding balance on the account is more than this limit.
NewDay must remove all adverse information recorded on Ms Rs credit file relating to this 
account following the credit limit increase in May 2019.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman