DRN-3217920
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly declined his 
application for a credit card, despite being a long-standing customer.
What happened
Mr D was an existing Halifax customer. He had a mortgage and substantial savings with the 
bank. But when he applied for a second credit card he was declined. While Mr D was waiting 
for an explanation he received a balance transfer offer for his existing card. And he regularly 
receives correspondence from Halifaxs wealth management service. So he cant 
understand why Halifax wouldnt provide a second credit card with a small limit for him to 
use overseas.
Halifax explained what it took into consideration when reviewing a credit card application. Itd 
reviewed the information received. But Halifax didnt think it would be responsible lending as 
it had concerns about affordability. And based on the information itd reviewed it had decided 
not to offer Mr D a second credit card. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Halifax had declined Mr Ds application as 
he was using his savings to supplement his income. And although Mr D had substantial 
savings they could be spent at any time. So Halifax couldnt be sure Mr D would be able to 
afford the credit card. 
Our investigator couldnt say Halifax had made any errors or acted unreasonably. And she 
said she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Hes regularly contacted by Halifaxs wealth management services. So the bank should be 
aware of his savings and spending habits. And he doesnt understand why he was declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mr D. Hes been a customer for many 
years. He has a mortgage, savings and a credit card with Halifax. And he cant understand 
why it wouldnt issue a second credit card so he could separate his spending overseas.
Firstly, its important to realise that its not the role of this service to look at Halifaxs business 
practises  or to compare them to other banks. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes, and if so what it needs to do to put things right. 
Mr D feels theres no reason why Halifax should decline his application. He has an existing 
relationship with the bank. And he only wants a small credit limit when he already has much 
larger savings with the bank.
Halifax has explained it looks at a number of different things when considering whether or 
not to offer a credit card account. This includes income, occupation, current levels of 
borrowing and any information returned by the credit reference agencies. 
Each bank will have its own criteria for deciding the outcome of applications. Thats a 
commercial operation for the business to make. And its not something our service can 
interfere in. Halifax is entitled to decide how to run its business and on what basis it 
determines whether or not to lend money. 
Halifax has explained the application was rejected as there were concerns about Mr D using 
his savings to supplement his income. This meant the savings might not always be there. So 
after considering various factors the application was rejected. When Mr D appealed I can 
see his application was reviewed by the banks specialist lending team. But it reached the 
same conclusion. Unfortunately on this occasion Mr D hadnt met the banks criteria for a 
second credit card.
It mustve been exasperating to then receive balance transfer offers from Halifax in relation 
to his existing credit card. But the offer related to his current credit limit  not the approval of 
a new card with additional borrowing. And any transfer request would have to be considered 
by Halifax if Mr D had responded.
Mr D also receives regular correspondence from Halifaxs wealth management services. And 
I appreciate that indicates a level of interest in offering him further banking services based 
on the information held about him by Halifax. 
But the marketing would come from a different area of the bank to the credit card 
department. It would have its own criteria for acceptance. And of course sending literature to 
potential customers doesnt automatically guarantee the offer of a service if they respond.
I do understand Mr Ds frustration that the bank he uses regularly cant help him with what 
seems a simple request. And I can see Halifax tried to reduce the balance on his existing 
credit card so it could be transferred to a new account. Unfortunately this wasnt possible.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Halifax has tried to help Mr D. It reviewed his application 
again after the initial decline. And its tried to find a different way of issuing a second card to 
meet his needs. 
Unfortunately the financial information provided by Mr D and from other sources, as 
mentioned above, meant that Mr Ds application didnt successfully meet Halifaxs criteria.
I know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant say Halifax has acted unfairly 
or incorrectly in declining Mr Ds application. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman