DRN-4305110
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Dynamo Cover Limited, which hed asked to provide him 
breakdown cover for his car. When he cancelled, it charged him a cancellation fee.
What happened
Mr D was looking to take out breakdown cover. He used an on-line price comparison website 
and chose cover with Dynamo. Dynamo sent policy documents to him, stating his cover 
would start on 5 May 2023. But reminded him a validation photo was needed. Mr D sent a 
photo but received a message saying it was unacceptable. He then cancelled the cover.
Dynamo said that cancellations within 14 days of the policy start date would receive a 
premium refund, but would be subject to a £15.99 cancellation fee. Mr D felt that was unfair 
as he felt Dynamo had never really provided him cover. He felt hed had to cancel so he 
could take cover elsewhere to be sure that hed have an active policy should he need 
assistance in the event of a breakdown.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that Mr D had been told about the 
cancellation fee when arranging the policy. Also that Dynamo had completed a fair amount 
of work in setting up the cover. So she felt it was fair and reasonable that it had applied a 
charge.
Mr D wasnt happy. He said he couldnt get answers from Dynamo about why his photo was 
unacceptable. And without completing validation he ran the risk of having a policy which 
wouldnt respond if a breakdown occurred. Our Investigator responded further but when 
Mr D remained unhappy his complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find my view is the same as that expressed by our Investigator. 
I appreciate that Mr D feels that he had a policy he could not rely upon because he wasnt 
able to validate it. But its not unusual for policies to incept subject to validation. And I havent 
seen anything which persuades me its most likely that it was failures of Dynamo which 
prevented validation.
Theres no dispute that Mr D was made aware of the potential cancellation fee before 
agreeing to go ahead with the cover. That fee applies to cover cancelled within 14 days of 
the policy start date. The amount of the fee seems relatively low and doesnt seem like an 
unreasonable sum. And Im also satisfied, further validation aside, that prior to Mr D 
cancelling, Dynamo had put in time and effort, such as in producing policy documents, to 
start the policy. The policy began on 5 May 2023 and Mr D cancelled it on 12 May 2023. Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for Dynamo to charge a cancellation fee. 
Dynamo has explained that the policy cost £19,50. And because Mr D cancelled so early, he 
is entitled to a refund of that sum less the cancellation fee. I understand it is waiting to pay 
this to Mr D. But I also note in its email of 1 June 2023 it said it would be prepared to apply 
only a reduced fee of £9.99 (instead of £15.99). If Mr D wants to obtain his refund and/or ask 
Dynamo if it is still prepared to apply only the reduced fee, he should contact it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Dynamo Cover Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman