DRN-2645826
The complaint
Ms T complains as director of a limited company, G, that AXA Insurance UK Plc has rejected 
its landlord insurance claim for external storm damage to the roof of its let property.
What happened
In December 2019, following bad weather, G made a claim to AXA as water had penetrated 
through the roof into the upstairs front bedroom. Ms T arranged for contractors to assess the 
repairs needed and the gutters were cleaned out. Ms T liaised through the broker with AXA 
over the repairs and she sent it estimates for the repairs. The repairs were started as their 
broker had said they could see no reason why the claim wouldnt be paid, and AXA had 
given no indication that it wouldnt be accepted. AXA asked for photos, which were sent.
After completion of the repairs in March, G sent the invoices for the roof and internal repairs 
to AXA. Nothing was heard back, and it appears that AXA appointed contractors to consider 
the photos but due to a misunderstanding they closed their file. Ms T made a complaint as a 
result of which AXA advised the broker that the internal repairs would be paid but it didnt 
think the external repairs were covered as there was no identifiable storm around the time 
the damage occurred and the roof showed a lot of wear and tear.  
AXA advised G through the broker of its final decision in June 2020. It accepted that its 
service fell short of what was required and that it was responsible for delays in reaching its 
final decision. It paid G compensation of £125, £100 for its service failures and £25 for its 
delay in answering Gs complaint.
On referral to this service our investigator said there was no storm so AXA didnt do anything 
wrong in declining the claim for the external repairs. He further said the claim didnt come 
under any other cover in the policy, and that the compensation paid was reasonable.
Ms L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
storm claim
As Ms T has been informed by our investigator, when considering claims for storm damage, 
to decide if the storm cover applies we ask three questions and it is only if the answer to 
each of those questions is yes that we would be likely to uphold the complaint. The 
questions are:
On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around 
the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
For damage to be covered under the storm part of the policy there has to be a single 
identifiable storm. Storm isnt defined in the policy but our approach is that storm generally 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain hail or snow. Here the weather records 
around the date the damage happened show peak gusts of wind of 40 mph, not sufficient to 
be classed as violent such as might cause structural damage. There was no substantial 
rainfall. Ive noted that both contractors instructed by G refer to there being storm damage, 
but dont go into an explanation for this. Storm cover in a policy is limited as Ive described 
and doesnt cover general bad weather.
I wont go on to consider the other two questions as in my view there wasnt a storm.
accidental damage
In the policy this covers any other damage to the property. But it does have exclusions, the 
main one being wear and tear. The photos of the damage showed moss on the ridge tiles, a 
build-up of debris in the gully and missing mortar under the tiles. AXA said this was wear and 
tear. And Ive noted that the repairs involved a large part of the tiles being stripped back and 
replaced or re-laid, with new felting. Ive noted also that there is an exclusion under 
accidental damage for damage caused by wind, rain, hail, sleet, snow, dust.. So, I dont 
think the damage is covered under any other part of the policy.
claim handling
Clearly the claim was poorly handled. There were delays in responding to communications 
from the broker and the claim file was closed at one stage due to a misunderstanding on the 
part of contractors appointed. As a result, from receiving the photos in January 2020 it took 
until April 2020 to give a decision on the claim, and then only after a formal complaint was 
raised. 
Ms T said the broker told her there was no reason why the claim shouldnt be paid. While I 
note he was an independent broker, nevertheless AXA didnt do anything to disabuse G or 
the broker of that. But I note this was a let property and whilst Ms T has suggested the 
repairs wouldnt have been done had they been told that they werent covered, I think from 
the circumstances that that was unlikely. If the roof hadnt been repaired the property would 
have suffered more damage every time it rained. So I dont think G was prejudiced by AXAs 
inaction.
As for compensation, what I have to bear in mind is that this was a complaint made by a 
limited company. A company cant suffer distress so but I can award compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to its director. So, any compensation paid would inevitably be less 
than if this was an individual consumer complaining about their own property. In those 
circumstances I think the compensation paid for the service failings, of £100 was 
reasonable. I cant comment on the £25 paid for the complaint handling delay, as complaints 
handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and doesnt come under my powers to 
consider.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman