DRN-1109122
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didn't tell him his fixed rate product for his buy 
to let mortgage was coming to an end. His monthly payment increased from about £400 to 
about £900. Mr S asks that Barclays refunds the difference.
What happened
Mr S has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. He received a letter in early June 2019 saying 
his product was coming to an end and setting out the monthly payment that would apply 
from July 2019. Mr S says Barclays should have told him sooner.
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said the rules for buy to 
let mortgages are different from residential mortgages. Barclays did what it was required to 
do when it told Mr S that his contractual monthly payment would change. 
Mr S didn't agree. He said Barclays changed from switching rates through a branch invitation 
to online only without telling him. This wasn't fair and resulted in him paying £500 extra.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays. He'd taken out a fixed interest rate product in  
2017. Barclays wrote to Mr S on 4 June 2019 saying his interest rate was coming to an end 
and his mortgage would go onto its standard variable rate (SVR). The letter set out Mr S's 
new monthly payment and said he can switch to another product.
Mr S would have liked Barclays to send a reminder before the interest rate ended - as it 
does with his residential mortgage. Barclays says this isn't a service it provides in relation to 
buy to let mortgages. And Mr S says Barclays should have let him know that it now expects 
him to take out a  product online, instead of inviting him to his branch as happened before. 
I must bear in mind that this is a buy to let mortgage and isn't subject to the same rules on 
mortgage regulation as a residential mortgage. While I expect Barclays to treat Mr S fairly, I 
don't think it had to send a reminder about his product ending. A buy to let mortgage is 
essentially a business or investment. I think it's reasonable for Barclays to expect Mr S to 
manage the mortgage - including planning when to contact Barclays about a new product. I 
don't think it's fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to refund any 
interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman