DRN-2849882
The complaint
Ms S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim she made for medical 
treatment under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which covered her from January 2020 
until January 2021. The insurer was Great Lakes.
Ms S injured her wrist on 4 March 2020 while she was on holiday abroad. Ms S first received 
non-surgical treatment for this at a hospital, and she continued her holiday.
Ms S continued to experience pain in her wrist, and she went to another hospital on 
9 March 2020. The treating doctor recommended surgery, which was booked for the next 
day. Ms S asked Great Lakes to cover the cost of the surgery.
Great Lakes sought advice from its medical team, who didnt think the surgery was urgent. 
The treating doctor also signed a certificate to say Ms S was fit to fly. So, Great Lakes said it 
wouldnt pay for Ms S surgery while she was abroad. Ms S was due to fly back to the UK on 
16 March 2020, but on 11 March 2020 Great Lakes offered to arrange her to return home 
early due to her injury. This wouldve allowed Ms S to have surgery in the UK earlier.
Ms S was concerned that she wouldnt be able to go to the hospital in the UK due to the 
Covid-19 global pandemic. But Great Lakes confirmed that there were no restrictions in 
place that prevented her from doing so. Ms S chose to continue with her holiday, rather than 
return early.
Mr S saw a consultant in the UK a few days after her return who didnt recommend urgent 
surgery. Ms S eventually chose to have surgery on her wrist privately which included 
breaking her bone again to reset it. She says her recovery has been significantly impacted 
by the delay in having surgery on her wrist, and she was in pain for a significant period of 
time due to the delay. Ms S says Great Lakes shouldve paid for her surgery while she was 
abroad. Great Lakes, on the other hand, maintains its position that the surgery wasnt 
urgent, Ms S was fit to fly home, and it offered to arrange Ms S to return early.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the terms and conditions of the 
policy allowed Great Lakes to arrange Ms S to return to the UK if the treating doctor thought 
it was safe to do so. So, our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to arrange Ms S to return home early. This was because the doctor 
had signed a certificate saying Ms S was fit to fly, and she hadnt seen anything to say 
surgery was required immediately.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Ms S complaint. 
Its clear that this has been a distressing time for Ms S, and the impact of the entire situation 
with her wrist has been significant for her. But I need to decide if Great Lakes has treated 
Ms S fairly and acted reasonably, in the circumstances of the complaint. This means, 
amongst other things, that I need to look at the information that was available to Great Lakes 
at the time, rather than make a decision based on hindsight.
Having considered all the medical reports, none of these suggest that Ms S needed surgery 
immediately. I can see that the hospitals insurance department had said the treating doctor 
advised Ms S needed surgery within 10 days of the accident  which wouldve been by 
14 March 2020. However, this isnt mentioned in the doctors medical report. Ms S has also 
since sent an updated report from the treating doctor, which says surgery was 
recommended within 10 to 14 days.
Great Lakes notes at the time say that its medical team didnt think the surgery was urgent, 
and she could have it in the UK after she returned. I can also see that Great Lakes has since 
sought guidance from a doctor who said Ms S medical reports didnt suggest she needed 
urgent surgery  for example, there was no mention of vascular or nerve trauma at the time.
The terms and conditions of Ms S policy say that Great Lakes can arrange her to return to 
the UK if shes injured during her trip. The policy also excludes any treatment that can 
reasonably be delayed until she returns home. These types of terms are fairly standard in 
travel insurance policies.
Taking everything into account, I think Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably when it didnt 
cover the cost of Ms S surgery while she was abroad. This was because there was no 
medical report to say Ms S needed surgery urgently, the doctor signed a certificate to say 
Ms S was fit to fly, and Great Lakes offered to arrange Ms S to return home earlier.
Ms S says the delay in getting treatment has had a significant impact on her recovery. But I 
can also see that when she went to the hospital in the UK, the consultant didnt recommend 
surgery at the time. Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Great Lakes 
did anything wrong by relying on the information it had at the time.
Ms S has also said that she received medical information from the hospital which didnt 
belong to her, so she wasnt confident Great Lakes had relied on her information when it 
made its decision about the need for surgery. But I can see that Great Lakes doctor has 
quoted information included in her medical reports. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes did rely on 
the correct information.
Ms S has pointed out that the fit to fly certificate didnt have all the information, such as a 
hospital stamp. But I can see that it was signed, and it confirmed Ms S was fit to fly. Overall, 
I think Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in relying on this certificate.Its clear that Ms S was concerned about the situation upon her return to the UK due to 
Covid-19. Great Lakes was discussing arranging her to return early between 11 and 
13 March 2020. It had checked if there were restrictions in place in the UK at the time that 
wouldve prevented Ms S from seeking urgent medical care after returning from her trip 
abroad. Great Lakes explained to Ms S that there werent, and it referred her to the 
government guidelines. Overall, I can see that Great Lakes was acting on the information it 
had at the time. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it did anything wrong 
by offering to arrange Ms S early return rather than pay for her surgery abroad.
Taking everything into account, I think Great Lakes acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when it didnt cover Ms S surgery abroad as it thought it could be 
reasonably delayed until Ms S returned home. I also think Great Lakes acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering to arrange Ms S to return home early. 
I know Ms S will be disappointed with my findings. But as she declined Great Lakes offer to 
return home early to have treatment in the UK, I dont think Great Lakes is responsible for 
the medical costs Ms S incurred after this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman