DRN-1407190
The complaint
Ms C complains Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) provided a loan for goods which 
were not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
 Ms C took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook for a front and rear entry door to 
be supplied and fitted by a company Ill call V.
Ms C says on the date the doors were due to be fitted, there was a problem as some of the 
doors had been damaged in transit. The supplier had to reschedule for 3-4 days later.
The doors were supplied but there was then a problem with fitting them. One door wouldnt 
close properly and the other wouldnt lock. A second fitter was sent the following day, 20 
November 2018, and he was able to rectify the problem. He asked Ms C to sign a customer 
declaration accepting he work. Ms C says he did so as the doors seemed to be fitted 
correctly and the locking mechanism seemed fine.
A few months later in February 2019, Ms C says she was cleaning the door when she 
noticed a broken plastic area behind the handle. She believed this damage had been 
concealed with silicone and so she hadnt noticed it before. She contacted the supplier V to 
complain. They asked for photographs which Ms C sent but they said they were unable to 
ascertain the problem from them. Ms C asked them to inspect the door. They agreed but 
said they would charge a call out fee which Ms C didnt think was fair under the 
circumstances and so she refused to pay for an inspection. Ultimately, the supplier didnt 
agree the damage was caused by them instead suggesting Ms C must have caused the 
damage herself.
Ms C then complained to her finance company Shawbrook.
In its final response dated 12 April 2019. It didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. It said the 
photographs looked as though the damage probably occurred when the door hit something 
whilst being open. It didnt agree to inspect the damage and said as Ms C had signed a 
customer satisfaction note the damage must have occurred after fitting.
Dissatisfied Ms C brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms C. She agreed the original photographs were grainy 
and the damage was difficult to see. She thought based on this, it wasnt unreasonable for 
Shawbrook to charge an inspection fee. But Ms C supplied further photographs. These 
showed that on the inside frame near the door handle a piece of the door shows to have 
been cracked and stuck back in with something. She didnt find it likely that Ms C could have 
damaged the door as the finance company had indicated and then completed this repair.
She noted Shawbrook had pointed out there had been some months before Ms C noticed 
the damage and as it was near the handle it felt she would have noticed it sooner if it was 
there when the door was fitted. On further inspection the investigator thought the repair of 
the damage was completely flush and almost unnoticeable. She also considered the 
damage is the back door so its not necessarily a door that would be used every day. She 
thought the damage may have become more noticeable after time as initially the filler would 
have been white, and dirt build up over time would have made it more noticeable. So, she 
concluded this was more likely why it took several months to notice it.
She found it was more likely than not the door was damaged at the point of fitting or before 
and so she agreed Shawbrook should put things right. She suggested company V should  
inspect the back door and complete the repair, providing that this would result in the door 
looking as new and free of the defect. But based on the photos she was uncertain if this 
could be repaired to such a standard. She said if this is not possible, she would recommend 
that the door is replaced and refitted with a door of exact specification of the previous one. 
This must be actioned in a reasonable amount of time and at a convenient time and date for 
Ms C.
Ms C accepted the investigators findings but Shawbrook didnt. It said on balance it felt it 
was just as likely the damage had been caused post fitting of the door as at pre-fitting or 
during the fitting of the door. It said it was happy to ask Company V to inspect the door as 
experts in the field, but it wasnt prepared to ask them to repair the door or fit a new door as 
it couldnt agree they were responsible. It asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive 
reached the same view as the investigator. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms C bought the doors using a fixed sum loan with Shawbrook. Under Section 75, in certain 
circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Shawbrook as she does the supplier 
if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. My role isnt to 
decide Shawbrooks liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires me to, I need to 
decide whats fair and reasonable, considering any relevant law, such as the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. 
In this case Ms C is the debtor, Shawbrook is the creditor and the company V is the 
supplier. There were no other parties involved so Im satisfied the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship exists for Ms C to make a claim under Section 75 against Shawbrook 
and the cost of the doors also falls within the required financial limits.
Ms C has claimed a breach of contract as the back door wasnt of a satisfactory quality. In 
considering this I have taken account of what satisfactory quality means. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances, such as the age and cost of the doors at the point of sale. Satisfactory quality 
includes their general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. If the doors 
supplied to Ms C werent of satisfactory quality, it follows that theres been a breach of 
contract on the part of the supplier.
Company V supplied Ms C with brand new external doors. I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be high, the doors should be 
functional and - free from defects - for a considerable period of time.
Looking at the photographs, and whilst accepting Im not an expert in these matters, it 
seems a blemish, crack or damage to the door has had an attempted repair, a crack or piece 
of the door looks as though it has been filled or a piece stuck back in. 
Im not persuaded that Ms C would have been aware at the time she signed the customer 
satisfaction note of this damage as I think all parties have agreed its difficult to see. Any filler 
wouldve been white. So, considering the original fitting resulted in the doors not closing 
properly or locking I can understand Ms C signed the customer satisfaction note on the 
second attempted fitting when the door functioned as they should, and didnt consider a 
close inspection of the door itself. 
I dont find it likely that Ms C caused the damage and then attempted to carry out what 
appears to be quite an intricate repair herself. On balance I find it more likely than not the 
damage was present to the door before it was fitted or caused during the first attempted fit 
when the fitter was unable to secure the doors or the second successful installation. As such 
Im inclined to agree the back door was not of a satisfactory quality and Im going to ask 
Shawbrook to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
Ask company V to inspect the back door and complete the repair, providing that this 
would result in the door looking as new and free of defects to Ms Cs satisfaction
If this is not possible, it should replace the back door should be replaced and refitted 
with a door of exact specification of the previous one. This must be actioned in a 
reasonable amount of time and at a convenient time for Ms C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman