DRN-4104726
The complaint
Miss P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave her incorrect 
information during a telephone call and also complains about how it dealt with her complaint.
What happened
Miss P says she called NatWest on 23 November 2022 to ask about her account balance 
before her salary was credited to her account. She says she was told her account had been 
overdrawn by about £450 which caused her distress as she knew she didnt have an 
overdraft facility. Miss P says she wished to complain about what was said but was 
transferred to a line that didnt work. She says she made a number of telephone calls to 
NatWest about the complaint which caused distress and inconvenience.
NatWest accepts it made a mistake during the first telephone call and has apologised. It 
says it corrected the mistake shortly after making it and accepts it didnt log Miss Ps 
complaint as it should. NatWest has paid £75 compensation.
Miss P brought her complaint to us, and our investigator accepted she had been caused 
distress and inconvenience, but that NatWest had fairly apologised for what took place and 
paid appropriate compensation. The investigator didnt think Miss P had been caused any 
financial loss.
Miss P doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NatWest has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount. I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that NatWest made a number of mistakes by providing Miss P with 
incorrect information about her account balance, putting her through to a disconnected 
telephone line and not logging her complaint appropriately. I have listened to the telephone 
calls between Miss P and NatWest as well as Miss Ps calls to us. And I accept that Miss P 
was clearly concerned about being given the incorrect information about the account 
balance. I have no doubt that for a short time she would have been concerned about what 
had happened and if there may have been a fraud carried out on her account. I also 
appreciate Miss Ps frustration in being transferred to a line that didnt connect and that her 
complaint was then incorrectly set up.
The only issue for me to consider is the level of compensation and if it is fair and reasonable.
I am satisfied that NatWest has fairly apologised for what took place and that Miss P was 
given the correct information during the same initial telephone call.  So, it follows that I think 
the mistake was quickly corrected in a matter of minutes and that NatWest immediately 
apologised for that part of the complaint. I dont think Miss P suffered any financial loss. I 
also think that initial mistake about the overdrawn balance is the main part of this complaint. 
I accept NatWest could have handled matters after the initial call more effectively but can 
see that it also apologised for those matters in its final response letter of 6 December 2022. 
There is no need for me to comment in detail about those events as I have made clear they 
are not the main part of this complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied NatWests compensation offer of £75 is fair and reasonable and fairly 
reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. I have made clear that I dont think 
Miss P suffered any financial loss and that the main mistake was rectified within a very short 
time period. I also consider that NatWest responded within days to Miss Ps complaint in 
issuing its final response and in repeating its apology for what took place.
I accept that Miss P may remain unhappy with what took place and NatWests response but 
find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman