DRN-3953011
The complaint
Mrs M complains on behalf of the estate of Mr H about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) 
delay in dealing with a claim under the late Mr Hs car insurance policy. 
The late Mr H didnt have a Will and, because the estate is a small estate, Mrs M has 
brought the complaint as the daughter of the late Mr H.  
What happened
The late Mr H was involved in a car accident and made a claim with AXA. The late Mr H 
unfortunately passed away a few months later, and Mrs M raised a complaint as the car 
hadnt been repaired or returned. AXA responded and explained that the car was deemed 
repairable but there was then a significant period of inactivity as their repair team hadnt 
been informed that Mrs M was an authorised contact for matters relating to the claim. They 
accepted there had been a breakdown in communication and awarded £100 compensation. 
They also accepted Mrs M had made several calls to AXA and been on hold for lengthy 
periods. They said Mrs M had also been cut off during the calls, so they awarded a further 
£75. In relation to the car repairs, AXA explained the delay was down to the bodyshop 
awaiting parts. They said this was due to a nationwide shortage of parts, so they cant yet 
confirm a completion date. So, AXA awarded a further £175 for the ongoing delays in the 
cars repair. Mrs M didnt feel the compensation awarded was reasonable as it matched the 
£350 that would need to be paid for the excess. 
Our investigator looked into things for the estate of Mr H. He thought the £350 awarded was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances and didnt uphold the complaint. The estate of Mr H 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to the estate of Mr H. My role requires me to say how 
a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about 
the complaint arent in dispute. AXA have admitted they got things wrong in their handling of 
the claim and have paid £350 compensation. 
I note Mrs M feels this doesnt compensate for the impact caused to her as it only reflects 
the excess which has been paid. The only issue I have to decide is whether the 
compensation paid is fair and reasonable. 
I think its important to clarify, a complaint can be brought on behalf of a deceased person 
that would have been an eligible complainant, by those authorised to do so in law. Thats 
usually the estates executors or personal representatives. In this case, Mrs M is the late    
Mr Hs daughter and, given this involves a small estate, shes able to bring this complaint. In 
this case, the late Mr H wouldve been the eligible complainant, who had the required 
relationship with AXA  and we can only make awards to eligible complainants. The estate 
representative brings the matter on the deceased consumers behalf (as the person 
authorised in law to do so). So it follows that we cant compensate an executor or any 
representative for any impact incurred by them personally, when representing the estate. 
Our service is able to award compensation to the deceased consumer for any distress or 
inconvenience they experienced during the relevant period of time they were alive  and this 
would be payable to their estate. AXA have paid £350 compensation, so Ive looked at 
whether this is fair and reasonable and reflects the impact to the late Mr H. I accept there 
has been delay in dealing with the claim during the period Mr H was alive. It appears this 
was partly out of AXAs control as their agents were having to wait for parts during a time 
when there was a nationwide shortage. AXA also accept there was a breakdown in 
communication and lengthy periods of hold during phone calls. Looking at the impact on the 
late Mr H, I think the £350 already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge Mrs M has raised additional points and areas where she feels the service has 
impacted her. As mentioned above, our service cant award compensation to Mrs M 
personally. I acknowledge Mrs Ms point about the excess and, having received the 
compensation, she had to pay this back to cover the excess. I understand why this might not 
seem fair to Mrs M, but the terms and conditions do explain the excess is payable as part of 
a claim.  
I understand the car has now been fixed but Mrs M has noticed problems with the repairs. I 
do understand this will be frustrating for Mrs M but any complaints about the repairs will 
need to be raised with AXA first to allow them an opportunity to consider these first before 
our service is able to look into them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman