DRN-3043969
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Morses Club PLC didnt carry out proper affordability checks, had 
Morses done so it wouldve seen he was in a cycle of taking high cost credit and not lent to 
him. 
 
What happened
Mr L took one home credit loan from Morses in September 2020. A summary of his 
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived date repayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
repayments weekly 
repayment
1 £300 18/09/2020 outstanding 34 £15
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ls complaint. She didnt uphold his complaint. She 
said, Morses had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it that Mr L 
would likely to be able to afford his loan repayments. 
Morses appear to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr L disagreed and in summary he said;
he took another loan high cost credit loan around the same time that this loan was 
granted;
had Morses carried out proper checks it wouldve seen this loan was unaffordable;
he had another high cost loan that was in arrears at the time;
Mr L says he had a substantial history of taking short-term lending; 
He had maxed out his overdraft and
Mr L couldnt afford the repayments alongside his other priority debts.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
When this loan was approved, Morses has told us that it made enquires with Mr L about his 
income and expenditure. Based on what Mr L declared, Morses believed he had £102 of 
disposable income to be able to afford the payment of £15 per week. So, the loan wouldve 
looked afforded to Morses, based solely on this information Mr L declared to it. 
A credit check was also carried out. In summary, Morses knew the following from the credit 
check credits it carried out;
Mr L had nine outstanding credit accounts;
He had no recorded county court judgements;
Mr L had opened 2 accounts within the last year and
He had no recent significant adverse payment data.
The summary above, doesnt lead me to conclude that Morses shouldve either declined the 
application or have prompted it to have made further enquires with Mr L about his 
circumstances. It wouldve looked like based on what Morses saw that Mr L could afford the 
repayments.  
I appreciate Mr Ls actual full credit report and bank statements may show something 
different to what Morses was provided with.  But when Morses carried out the credit check there was no regulation about whether it needed to do a credit check let alone one to a 
required standard. 
Given this, I cant say an error was made in the credit check and neither was it unreasonable 
for Morses to have used and relied on the information it received from the credit reference 
agency.  
Overall, taking account that this was Mr Ls first and only loan I think Morses carried out 
proportionate checks which showed Mr L was likely to be able to afford the repayments he 
was committing to making. I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely 
Morses was made aware of any financial problems Mr L mightve been having. Or anything 
that wouldve prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it obtained and approve this loan. 
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about his loans. I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed by 
the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why 
Ive reached the outcome that I have.  
But I would remind Morses to treat Mr L fairly and with forbearance while dealing with him in 
order to repay the outstanding balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman