DRN-1147934
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about errors and delays when he applied to TSB Bank plc for a mortgage. 
He asks for compensation for his time and upset and for having to agree to a higher interest 
rate. 
What happened
Mr C had a mortgage with another provider. In May 2019 he applied to re-mortgage with 
TSB. The application was made on Mr Cs behalf by a broker. Mr C says things went well 
until the valuation. 
First, the valuer said (wrongly) the property was ex-local authority and outside TSBs lending 
policy. Mr C says he had to raise a complaint before that was corrected. The valuer then 
valued the property at £10,000 less than Mr C had expected, meaning he didnt qualify for 
the mortgage product he wanted. He was given incorrect information about whether he could 
appeal this. TSB offered £100 compensation, which Mr C didn't accept.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said TSB should pay £200 
compensation for the upset caused by its errors. She said TSB was entitled to rely on the 
professional opinion of the surveyor, which meant Mr C didnt qualify for a lower interest rate. 
The investigator said Mr C wasnt obliged to accept the interest rate offered by TSB  he 
could have applied elsewhere. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said £200 wasnt fair compensation for his stress and frustration 
or sufficient to bring about change in TSB and its suppliers. He said he didnt want to apply 
elsewhere as hed miss his re-mortgage deadline and didnt want another search on his 
credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB made errors here. The valuer appointed by TSB said Mr Cs property was ex-local 
authority and outside TSBs lending policy. Mr Cs application was delayed by several weeks 
while this was sorted out. Then Mr Cs broker was told there was a process to appeal the 
valuation amount. This wasnt correct: TSB doesnt allow valuations to be appealed in these 
circumstances.  
Ive no doubt this caused upset and inconvenience and I think it's right that TSB pays 
compensation. Its now agreed to pay £200 and I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
TSB appointed a surveyor to value Mr Cs property. Mr C disputes the valuation. He says a 
higher valuation was provided to his previous lender, and a similar property was sold for 
more. I understand Mr Cs frustration. But I dont think it was wrong for TSB to rely on the valuation carried out on its behalf. TSB appointed a suitably qualified person  a member of 
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  and it was entitled to rely on their professional 
opinion. TSB doesnt allow appeals where the surveyor has carried out an internal inspection 
for a re-mortgage. 
Because the valuation was lower than Mr C expected, he didnt qualify for the lower interest 
rate product hed hoped to take out. I dont think its reasonable to require TSB to offer Mr C 
a product that he didnt qualify for, or to require it to pay compensation for him taking out a 
product with a higher interest rate.
I understand Mr C didnt want to start the application process again with another provider. 
But it was Mr Cs choice whether to accept the mortgage product offered by TSB, apply 
elsewhere or stay with his previous lender.
Putting things right
For the upset and inconvenience its errors caused, TSB should pay compensation of £200 to 
Mr C. 
Ive noted what Mr C has said about the amount of compensation not being enough to cause 
change at TSB. This service isnt a regulator and we dont have the same powers as a 
regulator  such as to fine a business. We provide an informal dispute resolution service, 
and my role is to consider what compensation is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay £200 to Mr C  in 
total.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman