DRN-3206040
The complaint
Mrs G  as executor of the estate of her late husband, Mr M, complains on behalf of his 
estate that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited hasnt paid the correct lump sum 
from her husbands pension policy after his death. 
What happened
Mr M held a pension policy with Prudential that hed taken out in 1981 and made 
contributions to for a number of years. 
In March 2011 Mr M sadly died before his Prudential pension was in payment. Mrs G was Mr 
Ms wife at the time of his death. She was also the executor of his estate.
In September 2011, after Mrs G had provided a copy of her husbands death certificate and 
the grant of probate, Prudential paid a lump sum under the policy of £73,665.01.
In March 2018 Mrs G asked Prudential to provide her with a breakdown of her late 
husbands policy benefits. She said her husband had told her he would leave her over 
£750,000 and shed said shed been told on the phone by a Prudential consultant that her 
husband had another policy or policies with it. 
Prudential responded, saying the policy taken out in 1981 never had any life cover attached 
to it, and that the benefits were calculated correctly when the claim was settled. It also 
confirmed there were no other plans (policies) in force in her husbands name.
 
In February 2019 Mrs G telephoned Prudential to complain. She didnt think the correct 
amount had been paid.
In its response, Prudential again said there wasnt any life cover attached to the plan, and 
the benefits had been correctly calculated. 
After this there were some further emails between Mrs G and Prudential in relation to the 
amount of the lump sum. Mrs G said it shouldve been higher, referring to a leaflet Prudential 
had previously provided (this was the leaflet titled Lump sum death benefits over the 
Lifetime Allowance).  Prudential indicated the information she referred to was a pamphlet. 
In due course Mrs G brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and issued a view. He said that:
The figures of £625,000 and £700,000 in the Prudential leaflet were only examples 
for working out possible tax charges. There was no evidence the figures applied 
specifically to her husbands pension policy.
The booklet Mr M wouldve been given when he took out the policy showed that if he 
were to die before his pension started, his estate would be paid a lump sum.
Mrs G responded, querying why Prudential would send out a leaflet with examples not 
complementary to her husbands policies. Our investigator said it was a general leaflet that 
wasnt specific to her husband as it didnt have his details in it. The four examples in it were 
only example calculations and none referred to her husband. He said Prudential had told our 
service that it was sent whenever a policyholder passes away to give general information on 
the lifetime allowance.
Our investigator also provided Mrs G with a copy of the information Prudential had provided 
to our service, as requested. 
Mrs G then said the payout should be nearer £700,000 as her husband died unexpectedly 
and wouldve received a pension of £19,000 per year from 60. Our investigator didnt agree, 
so the case came to me for decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G is firmly of the view that a much larger lump sum shouldve been paid after her 
husbands death. She bases this on what she recalls her husband told her prior to his death, 
on the recollection of her husbands accountant, and on the information in the Prudential 
leaflet referred to above. Im sorry to hear that she was unwell for quite some time after her 
husbands death and only felt well enough to question the amount of lump sum years later. 
And I dont doubt the sincerity of Mrs Gs recollections. But although I know it will disappoint 
Mrs G and Im sorry for that, Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
But before I do that, it might be helpful if I say that in this decision Im only looking at the 
complaint about the amount of the lump sum that should be paid as that is the part of the 
complaint brought by Mrs G that must be made on behalf of her late husbands estate. This 
is because under the terms of the pension policy the lump sum must be paid to Mr Ms 
estate unless the policy was written in trust for a named beneficiary, which wasnt the case 
here. I will deal with the other aspects of the complaint concerning life insurance and 
whether Mrs G shouldve been given the option to take a pension rather than a lump sum in 
another decision. This is because Mrs G is able to complain about those issues on her own 
behalf rather than on behalf of the estate. 
This complaint concerns a pension policy taken out forty or so years ago. And any 
discussions Mrs G had with her husband also took place a good many years ago, as did any 
discussions her husband had with his business partner and accountant. Im conscious that 
over such a long period of time memories can, and do, fade. I dont doubt the sincerity of 
Mrs Gs statements to our service, but I must balance those against the documents 
Prudential have provided, some from the time the pension was taken out. 
Ive looked very carefully at the Prudential leaflet that Mrs G relies on to show that the lump 
sum shouldve been much larger. In my view this is a general leaflet provided to all those 
who notify the death of a policy holder to Prudential. I think it is most likely to have been 
provided to Mrs G shortly after her husbands death. I say this because page one of the 
leaflet indicates that:
This leaflet covers the position on
death before age 75 and explains
-the effect of legislation on
the payment of lump sum
death benefits,
-possible tax liability for anyone
receiving lump sum death
benefits, and-the new responsibilities for
Personal Representatives*.
It isnt intended to set out the benefit payable under a particular policy, but rather to show 
(with examples) the tax issues relating to pension lump sums and the lifetime allowance.
Mrs G has queried why Prudential would send out examples not relevant to her husbands 
policy. The leaflet was relevant to Mr Ms policy in that the lump sum payments under the 
policy formed part of his lifetime allowance, and it would be necessary for Mrs G, as 
executor to decide if any tax was payable. The examples were precisely that, examples of 
how to calculate tax liability in different circumstances, to cover a range of possibilities. So I 
dont think the specific amounts in the leaflet set out the entitlements under Mr Ms policy 
after his death. 
I also cant agree that (as Mrs G argues) the payout should be nearer £700,000 as her 
husband died unexpectedly and wouldve received a pension of £19,000 per year from 60. 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that Mr M wouldve received an annual pension of 
£19,000. Mr Ms 2010 statement showed that the amount he was guaranteed to receive per 
year from retirement in 2015 was £7,579.48.
And the pension to be received by Mr M after he retired wasnt relevant to the amount of the 
lump sum to be paid if he died before beginning to take his pension. Page 6 of the Guide to 
the Prudential Personal Retirement Plan indicates that should Mr M die before his pension 
commences his estate will receive the premiums paid plus compound interest at the rate of 
5% per annum. This was the basis for the calculation of the amount of £73,665.01 paid to 
the estate. 
For all the reasons given above, Im not going to uphold the complaint about the amount of 
lump sum paid under the pension policy after Mr Ms death, although I appreciate this will 
disappoint Mrs G and Im sorry for that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman