DRN-3967204
The complaint
Y complains that Caspian Assured Limited mis-sold it income protection.
What happened
Y sourced an income protection policy from Caspian in September 2021. Ys director, as a 
beneficiary of the policy, made a claim in February 2022 which was declined. Ive considered 
that complaint separately to this one. Y said it was not told about the eight-week deferred 
period on the policy sold by Caspian. Y said that because of this, Caspian should return the 
premiums paid for the policy. Y also said the policy was unsuitable because it was unable to 
maintain paying the premiums during the deferred period due to its directors incapacity. Y 
also said it received poor service from Caspian. 
Caspian accepted it didnt highlight the deferred period during the advised sale. However, it 
noted that there was still a need for income protection and that it recommended a policy 
based on Ys circumstances at the time. It also said Y was sent all the necessary sales 
literature, which explained the details of the policy, including the deferred period.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She acknowledged Caspian could have been 
clearer about the deferred period but said it would have made little difference because Y 
ultimately still needed income protection. She also mentioned Y was unable to afford paying 
the policy premiums during the period its director was incapacitated. She said had Y opted 
for a policy without a deferred period, then the cost would have been even more 
unaffordable. 
Y didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, it said Caspian should have told it about 
the deferred period and that because it didnt the policy was mis-sold. Y said this had a 
direct impact on his claim with the insurer because it was unable to pay the premiums. Y 
also said it received poor service from Caspian, including unnecessary and lengthy delays. 
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it and for mainly the same reasons already 
explained by our investigator. Im satisfied Caspian correctly identified a need for income 
protection as there were no other policies in place. Y was a relatively new business and 
began trading a couple of months prior to taking the policy. 
It's very unfortunate that Ys director was involved in an incident that caused the incapacity, 
but I dont think Caspian has made an error in recommending the policy because its 
purpose is precisely to offer cover in these circumstances, subject to the claim meeting the 
policy terms.   
Ys complaint about not being made aware the policy had an eight-week deferred period isnt 
persuasive enough to say the policy was unsuitable, or that Caspian mis-sold the policy. I 
say that because Im satisfied it makes little difference to the overall outcome of this 
complaint. Most income protection policies have a deferred period and so its not an unusual 
term, however, I agree Caspian should have discussed this with Y. Caspian also accepted 
that.
Ive carefully considered Ys argument; it would have preferred not to have a deferred period. 
But Im not persuaded by that in the circumstances. I say that because the cost of that policy 
would have been significantly more, and, on balance, Im not persuaded Y would have opted 
for that. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to satisfactorily demonstrate that Y would 
have been in a position financially to opt for that.
Ive also considered whether there was any distress or inconvenience caused by Caspian 
not highlighting the deferred period. Im not persuaded there was and so Im not making any 
award here. I say that because although there it made a mistake, Im satisfied the follow up 
documentation, that was emailed and posted to Y, clearly explained the policy terms, 
including the eight-week deferred period. This was sent in September 2021;
The term of the policy will provide you cover until you reach the current state retirement age 
of 68 with a deferral period of 8 weeks as we established that the life assured would have 
the financial stability to cope up to this point.
The covering letter from Caspian also directed Y to read the information to ensure it met the 
needs of the business. Y had 30 days in which to raise any concerns, or cancel the policies, 
but it didnt do this. And so, I dont think the initial error to be as impactful as Y described 
because Y was also responsible for ensuring the policy met its needs and was given enough 
time to do that. I accept Y may have been inconvenienced during the period it was unable to 
trade, but that was due to incapacity. I think it reasonable to suggest Y should shoulder 
some responsibility to review the policy terms and accompanying sales literature, which also 
explained the deferred period;
The deferred period is the amount of time the life insured will need to be incapacitated for 
before we will pay the monthly benefit. You have chosen an eight week deferred period. 
You must notify us within four weeks of the life insured becoming incapacitated, if you dont 
do this we may not backdate your claim.
Caspian said it offered Y a comprehensive level of service and from the evidence Ive seen, I 
agree with that statement. Caspians adviser was in regular contact with Y throughout the life 
of the policy and gave it good advice to try and resolve the issues that arose. I note there 
was a delay with Caspian responding to Ys complaint, but it wrote to Y explaining this and 
apologised for the inconvenience. Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that Caspian 
treated Y unfairly throughout the period in question and so I dont uphold that part of Ys 
complaint either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before  12 May 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman