DRN-2633352
The complaint
Mrs D complains HDI Global Specialty SE gave her incorrect information about her policy.
Mrs D made a claim for her dogs cruciate ligament injury. HDI initially told her, through its 
live chat service, that she was covered for up to £2,500 for vet fees per condition per year. 
But a week later it called to clarify that cruciate ligament treatment was limited to £1,000.
During the call it said the cost of x-rays would be paid for out of the overall limit, but then 
called back to explain that they would in fact be taken from the inner limit as well. 
Ultimately, it paid the claim to the policy limits and theres no dispute about that. But Mrs D 
says HDIs mistakes caused her distress. HDI offered to pay £50, but our investigator felt 
£150 was more reasonable. HDI asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that HDI sent Mrs D clear information about the policy, including 
the cruciate ligament treatment limit, at the start of the policy and at each renewal. 
It also sent Mrs D a copy of her policy documents after the live chat conversation. 
There was an onus on Mrs D to have read that information. But she explained on the 
live chat that she couldnt access her old emails and hadnt needed to use the policy 
for five years, so was unfamiliar with the terms. She was entitled to expect that HDI 
would highlight the relevant information, particularly as she explained the likely cost 
of the surgery and what it was for during the conversation. HDI didnt direct Mrs D 
towards her policy documents when discussing the policy limit and excess.
HDI accepts it should have highlighted the limit for cruciate ligament treatment during 
the live chat conversation. As it didnt, it left Mrs D with the impression the full cost of 
the surgery would be covered. This was a relief as shed been furloughed which had 
reduced her earnings. So, there was a loss of expectation when HDI corrected itself. 
Mrs D unexpectedly had to borrow money from a relative to cover the shortfall.
Her disappointment, and overall frustration with HDIs handling of the claim, were 
then compounded when it called to explain the cost of x-rays would also come out of 
the inner limit, despite what it had said previously. 
Our investigator established Mrs D wouldnt have acted differently if shed had the 
correct information earlier. But her expectations wouldnt have been raised in that 
scenario. And she could have weighed up the financial implications before the 
arrangements for the surgery were as advanced. So, I think £150 is fair. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Mrs D £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman