DRN-2623086
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased the cost 
of their home insurance policy and recorded a marker after they reported two escapes of 
water had taken place. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr H jointly held a buildings and contents home insurance policy with Admiral. This 
policy would renew each January and it had been in place for several years. 
On 31 August 2019 Mrs and Mr H noticed two escapes of water in their home. They 
contacted Admiral to query the procedure for making a claim. Admiral say Mrs and Mr H 
reported the escapes of water via an online form.
When Admiral discussed the incidents Mrs and Mr H had reported, it informed them that 
their compulsory policy excess was £500 per escape of water claim. As the cost of 
remedying any damage the escapes of water had caused was less than their policy 
excess, Mrs and Mr H decided not to make a claim under their policy. So, they contacted 
Admiral to explain they werent intending to make a claim. 
Mrs and Mr H subsequently discovered that Admiral had recorded a marker on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) Database. And when they received their renewal notice 
they were concerned that their policy premium had significant increased. 
Mrs and Mr H asked Admiral to remove the marker it had applied. But it declined to do that. 
They felt this was unfair as they felt theyd only made an enquiry, which they dont believe 
they should be penalised for. And they complained about what had happened. They chose 
not to renew their policy and sought alternative insurance elsewhere.
When Admiral responded to Mrs and Mr Hs complaint it explained that the premium 
increase was correct and in line with its pricing structure. It also stated that the new price 
reflected the fact that Mrs and Mr H had reported two insured events, which placed them at 
greater risk of future claims or incidents. And it said the number of adults in Mrs and Mr Hs 
household had increased since the previous policy renewal, which had also led to the cost 
of the policy increasing. 
In relation to the report made to CUE, Admiral said it had recorded that the status of their 
claim was withdrawn, which it said accurately reflected what had happened. So, it declined 
to amend CUE or withdraw what it had reported.
Being dissatisfied with how Admiral had dealt with their complaint Mrs and Mr H referred it 
to our service. An investigator at our service assessed the evidence but they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded Admiral had acted unfairly 
in increasing Mrs and Mr Hs policy premium. And they didnt think it had unreasonably 
recorded a withdrawn claim on the CUE database. But Mrs and Mr H rejected our 
investigators view of their complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs and Mr H experienced here. I can appreciate why 
theyre upset by what happened and I can see its taken up a lot of their time to bring this 
complaint to our service.
My role is to assess whether I think Admiral made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr H 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about 
everything they and Admiral have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate 
Mrs and Mr H will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the 
reasons behind my decision.
The first part of Mrs and Mr Hs complaint is about whether Admiral unfairly recorded 
information about their escapes of water with CUE. So, Ill focus on that issue first.
As a result of the telephone call Mrs and Mr H made to Admiral, and the online form they 
submitted, Admiral recorded that theyd suffered two escapes of water on its database. And 
it also reported that information to CUE.
Mrs and Mr H feel this approach was unfair, but Admirals explained that, irrespective of 
whether a claim is made, it will record any insured incident reported by a policyholder. This is 
something Id expect an insurer to do for fraud prevention purposes. And Ill explain why I 
dont think Admiral has acted unreasonably here.
The terms of Mrs and Mr Hs insurance policy set out how Admiral records and shares 
information with other organisations. In common with other insurers, Admiral is required to 
report accurate information about claims. Ive seen nothing to suggest that its breached 
those terms in reporting information provided by Mrs and Mr H to the CUE database.
Here, Admiral recorded that Mrs and Mr H had reported two escapes of water. That 
information was correct, and Mrs and Mr H accept they discussed the incidents in 
question with Admiral. I can see this went as far as them completing an online form. 
Thereafter, Admiral recorded that an insured event had occurred and that a claim had 
been withdrawn. 
Mrs and Mr H dispute they made a claim here. But they notified Admiral that an insured 
event  namely an escape of water  had taken place. And, initially, they were intending to 
make a claim under their policy. In such circumstances, our service wouldnt say its 
unreasonable to record that as a claim. So, while Mrs and Mr H say they were only 
making an enquiry, I think this initially went further than an enquiry. 
Im satisfied that Admiral correctly reported that Mrs and Mr Hs claim had been 
withdrawn. This is how wed expect claims to be reported where a policyholder decides 
not to proceed with a claim under their policy. I therefore dont think Admiral acted unfairly 
in reporting what had happened to CUE.
I can see that Admiral recorded a cost of £36 against the claim date. Admiral says this 
reflects the cost it incurred to a contractor for the cancellation of an appointment following 
the withdrawal of Mrs and Mr Hs enquiry. So, this was a cost associated with 
investigating the claim Mrs and Mr H were initially intending to make. Im satisfied its 
reasonable for this cost to be included on CUE. I say this because CUEs best practice 
guide encourages that approach.I can see Mrs and Mr H want our service to tell Admiral to remove the claim marker. But I 
cant ask it to do that because an insurer has a duty to make accurate records. And what 
Admiral has reported is a true reflection of what happened.
 
Ill turn now to Mrs and Mr Hs complaint that Admiral unfairly increased their policy 
premium when it offered to renew their policy in January 2020.
Id like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether Admiral treated Mrs and Mr H 
fairly during the time they held their policy. And, having done so, Im satisfied Admiral hasnt 
unfairly increased the cost of Mrs and Mr Hs policy. Ill explain why.
When Admiral offered to renew Mrs and Mr Hs policy in January 2019 the premium price 
was £280.17. This included a discretionary discount of almost £60. A further discretionary 
discount was also applied the following year  reducing Mrs and Mr Hs policy premium from 
£643.60 to £632.40.
I recognise that Mrs and Mr Hs policy increased by more than double the amount from 2019 
to 2020. But Admiral has told our service that this increase was as a result of the escape of 
water incidents theyd reported. It was also due to changes Mrs and Mr H made to their 
policy  theyd notified Admiral that the number of adults occupying their household had 
increased. It isnt unreasonable to expect that to lead to an increase in premium. 
The insurance market is very competitive. And different insurers calculate premiums in 
different ways  their assessment of risk can vary too. 
Admiral has also explained that its own rate changes led to an increase in the policy 
premium. Admiral has shared some information about its pricing structure with us, which I 
cant disclose to Mrs and Mr H. This is because that information is commercially sensitive. 
But Im satisfied that Admiral has shown our service that Mrs and Mr Hs premium increase 
was in line with its pricing structure. If Mrs and Mr H found a cheaper policy elsewhere, this 
doesnt necessarily mean Admiral unfairly increased their premiums in 2020.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to show that 
Admiral acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
I realise Mrs and Mr H will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what 
we, in trying to resolve their dispute with Admiral informally, can do for them. Im sorry we 
cant help Mrs and Mr H any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman