DRN-1577590
The complaint
Mrs As representative, her son Mr A, complains on her behalf about the administration of 
her unit-linked reviewable whole of life policy with indexation (the policy), by Zurich 
Assurance Limited. 
Mr As primarily concerned about the premium increases and the indexation, as he doesnt 
think theyre being calculated fairly.
 
What happened
In May 1993, Mrs A was advised to take out the policy and she chose to increase her level of 
life cover in line with the Average Earning Index (AEI). As a result the sum assured 
increased from £40,000 in May 1993 to its current level of around £103,578 plus. Over this 
period the premiums have also increased substantially.  
Zurich partially upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
 
On 23 April 2019, its servicing team wrote to Mrs A offering an explanation about the 
premium increase, and its sorry for the delay in her receiving this information.
The monthly cost doesnt necessarily increase at the same rate as the cover, which 
is automatically increased in line with AEI (without the need for underwriting), and the 
cost is calculated separately.
The new cost of cover is calculated using its company rates and includes a 
consideration of age, gender and number of claims made. So the older a customer 
gets, the greater the cost of providing higher cover. Thats why the sum assured 
percentage increase, and the monthly premium percentage increase, will not always 
be the same.
In addition to the AEI increase the plan is also subject to review throughout its 
lifetime  currently its reviewed annually  to ensure that it can continue to provide 
cover based on the assumptions made at the outset including rise in AEI, general 
rise in investments, and the number and value of future claims.
Its actuaries take a realistic view of the future, and compare whats happened in 
terms of their assumptions with whats likely to happen and consequently it may need 
to make good any underfunding.
If Mrs A would like her Indexation removed, she can do so in writing, and signed by 
herself and the additional trustees.
Its sorry for the mistake in the spelling of Mrs As name, it has been rectified now. 
As explained in its letter of 27 March 2019, when a review shows the plan has 
performed better than expected it no longer provides a current valuation.
The current plan payments received into the plan (as of May 2019) are £53,752, and 
the valuation is £44,883.The purpose of the policy is to provide life cover and the investment element is 
secondary. Mrs A is currently covered for £103,578 and will be paid this in the event 
of a valid claim.
It paid £50 compensation for not providing a reasonable service. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
 
Mr A wants a detailed breakdown of on how the indexation is charged, what the 
underlying assumptions are and if theyre consistent with the rest of the industry, but 
were not actuaries or forensic accountants, so these arent questions were able to 
consider. Our role is to consider if Zurich has done anything wrong.
The policy documentation provided made clear the reviewable nature of the policy 
and the principles for increased premiums. This is separate to indexation which 
insures that the policy cover keeps up with inflation.
Whilst she appreciates Mr As concerns, the premiums paid dont outweigh the sum 
assured, and the surrender value is only lower than the premiums paid because this 
isnt an investment policy. In any case, shes not seen anything to suggest that the 
policy isnt doing what its designed to do.
When the plan was taken out assumptions were made and thats why its reviewed 
regularly to make sure that its still performing in line with its assumptions.
The terms and conditions made clear: 
oAt the review we check what has actually happened against our assumptions 
and set new assumptions for the future. We calculate whether the cash value 
of your plan is what we expect it to be, taking account of the actual cost of 
cover.  
oIts possible your plan will run for many years, and over time the cost of cover 
can change. We set your payments to reflect what it costs us to provide the 
cover, which depends on our assumptions about life expectancy trends, 
survival rates for major illnesses and investment growth. None of us can 
accurately predict the future, so we regularly review the actual cost of cover 
against these assumptions.
Mrs A is able to cancel her indexation if it isnt what she wants. Zurich confirmed that: 
oMrs A is able to cancel the indexation benefit at any time, although once 
cancelled, it cannot be reinstated  cancelling the benefit would mean the 
Sum Assured would remain at its current level, and the contribution would 
remain at its current level on an ongoing basis. The plan would, however, still 
be subject to annual reviews meaning the Sum Assured could change 
depending on the result of the review.
The 2019 review letter explained that the cost of providing cover was as expected 
and therefore no change (reduction) was required to the sum assured  so the 
contribution remained unchanged  however an increase in premium was needed to 
reflect the indexation increase to the sum assured.
The policy documentation makes clear that the index policy charge will be adjusted 
from time to time as the actuary considers appropriate. Appendix D of the policy 
documentation explains that the sum assured will be increased annually and the 
increased contribution will be determined by the actuary. Furthermore, the terms 
explain: 
othat wherever the Actuary is required or authorise to do anything under these 
provisions he will do so in accordance with actuarial principals and his determination of them will be final and binding on the company and the 
Policyholder.
Shes therefore unable to say that Zurich has done anything wrong by accepting the 
actuarial recommendation as its obliged to.
Shes seen nothing to suggest that the calculations havent been done properly, or 
done in accordance with Zurichs terms and conditions.
Zurichs offer to pay £50 compensation for trouble and upset caused by its service  
not in relation to the premium increase  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for ombudsman decision. In summary, 
he made the following key points:
 
He appreciates that our service isnt an actuarial or accounting service and therefore 
isnt able to answer his questions regarding a detailed breakdown of the calculations, 
but wants to know who regulates this and who we/he should refer this part of the 
complaint to?
Hed still like the following questions answered: 
oWhat are the various components of company payment rates?
oWhat are the assumptions underlying the calculation?
oHow can one be sure the calculations are consistent with the rest of the 
industry?
oIs there regulation in this vital calculation to ensure the consumer is 
protected from being over charged?  
He doesnt believe that Zurich has provided any detailed calculation as evidence of 
excess over the AEI which as a percentage is 6.4% (9.65% minus 3.3%). Instead 
Zurich has inserted dubious clauses to protect itself, which allows it to charge excess 
indexation charges.
Hes concerned that costs are more crippling as the policy gets older. 
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr A says, Im not persuaded that 
Zurich has administered Mrs As policy incorrectly. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr and Mrs A have about this matter.
Mr A has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
I appreciate Mr A feels his points have gone over the investigators head, but I dont agree 
and Im sorry he feels that way. My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and 
Zurich, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the 
facts of the case, rather than take any sides. 
Its not my role to regulate or punish Zurich for any alleged breaches, thats the role of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether or 
not Zurich has done anything wrong.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Im aware Mr A has numerous questions about the technical calculations, but Im not 
required to answer these, and my inability to answer particular questions doesnt prevent me 
from reaching a decision in this case either.
Im aware that Zurich partially upheld the complaint. It broadly accepts that it hasnt provided 
Mrs A with a service she could expect and has in response offered to pay £50 compensation 
for any trouble and upset caused. That doesnt prevent me from explaining my decision 
regarding the points raised by Mr A.
I think its still important to reiterate that the type of policy Mrs A is complaining about is 
known as a reviewable whole-of-life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, but is 
instead designed to pay out on death whenever it occurs.
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number of different factors, including future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent known at the start. This is why, despite what Mr A says, 
Mrs A couldnt have been told precisely how the premiums were going to increase.
 I appreciate that plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost 
of premiums are likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased 
cost of the premiums.
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of the cover 
is not fixed and actually increases with age.
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased ages, as the risk of 
making a claim becomes higher.
I note that Mrs A is now in her 70s and is more likely to make a claim than she wouldve in 
her 50s. It doesnt mean that the policy was designed to stop Mrs A from continuing with the 
policy in later life when shes likely to need it most. Im mindful that its around 27 years since 
the policy was taken out so the premiums are bound to be much higher.   The hope is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the 
policy reaches the point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium being 
paid. Whilst projections can be made, there are no guarantees, and may explain the sudden 
sharp rise in recent times. 
Im mindful of Mr As comments but this is a life insurance policy and not an investment, and 
doesnt operate in the same way that an investment bond linked to the stock market would.  
The policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. At each review the insurer also needs to make new assumptions, about the 
cost of cover, life expectancy and investment performance in the future. These will help 
determine whether or not the premiums they paid could maintain the level of cover or 
whether theyd need to increase it to pay for the increased cost of life cover.
I should make clear that review is separate to indexation which insures that the level of cover 
keeps up with inflation  and remains relevant with the changing times and average earnings 
 which isnt linked to the reviews that are carried out.   
Its also important to remember that the level of cover  which is linked to the AEI - doesnt 
necessarily increase in line with the cost of cover. 
Its not possible to predict future premium increases with any degree of accuracy. But not 
being able to predict future premiums doesnt mean the policy isnt being administered 
correctly. And, whilst the cost of premiums has increased over the years, its important to 
note that this doesnt mean that they wouldnt need to continue to increase in future. So even 
if Mrs A decided to increase her premiums at the next review that doesnt mean she wouldnt 
need to make increases on future reviews to maintain the same level of cover  which is 
subject to indexation.
Once these calculations are completed, Zurich can determine whether the policy has 
passed the review  usually meaning no changes to cover or premium are required (as Mrs 
A recent found), or failed  usually meaning the policyholder will be offered the choice of 
either paying a higher premium to maintain the same level of cover or accepting reduced 
cover for the same premium.
But again, because Mrs As policy is subject to indexation, the level of cover can increase 
even if the policy has passed the review, so she may have to pay a higher premium to pay 
for the greater cover.  But this is in line with common industry practice and isnt unique to 
Zurich.
Im mindful that Mr As finding it difficult to reconcile an initial assumed rate of 4.2% with 
what now seems closer to double that according to his calculations. But Im also mindful that 
assumptions are only that, and that Zurich never gave any guarantees about the level of 
increase.
On balance Im satisfied given the nature and operation of the policy, it allowed Zurich to do 
what it was doing and that it didnt mislead Mrs A about how the policy would work.
Furthermore, Im unable to say that Zurich has done anything wrong by asking Mrs A in 2019 
to consider increasing the monthly premiums in order to maintain the increasing sum 
assured.
 Zurich is also obliged to take on board and apply the figures from its actuaries. And like the 
investigator Ive seen no evidence that it hasnt operated in the way that it was designed to. 
In other words, Im satisfied that Zurich is entitled to set its premiums, based upon advice from its actuaries, in the exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, and its not for us 
to tell it how to run its business.
Despite what Mr A suggests, Im unable to agree that Zurich has free reign to increase 
premiums without justification and that its doing so in a deliberate effort to force older 
policyholders to abandon their policies so that it doesnt need to pay out upon death of the 
life assured.
So far as Zurichs responsibilities (as the policy provider) are concerned, on balance Im 
satisfied it provided policy documentation that was clear, fair and not misleading.
In other words, Im satisfied Zurich made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the 
reviewable whole of life policy with indexation. So Im satisfied the policy allowed the 
business to do what it was doing and that it didnt mislead Mrs A about how it would work.
Im conscious that Mr A wants specific answers about the calculations, but this isnt the level 
of information Id expect Zurich to generally provide its customers. So I dont think I blame it 
for not providing this in the general documentation. 
On balance  having dealt with similar complaints  I think some of the information Mr As 
seeking is more likely (than not) to be commercially sensitive  given the nature of the 
actuarial calculations and considerations. So in the circumstances, I cant safely say that 
Zurich has done anything wrong by not providing detailed figures as requested by Mr A.
Overall I think Zurich has endeavoured to provide a reasonable answer to Mr As questions 
subject to the limitations of commercial sensitivity. 
I appreciate Mrs A will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Zurich to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
I think the offer to pay Mrs A £50 compensation for the trouble and upset if fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman