DRN-3552205
The complaint
Mr G has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua irresponsibly lent to him. He says he 
was provided with credit that he couldnt afford and he lost out as a result. 
What happened
Mr G opened a credit card account with NewDay in November 2015. His credit limit was 
initially £300. In February 2016 his credit limit was increased to £950.
 
Mr G, through his representative, says that NewDay shouldnt have allowed him to open an 
account and it shouldnt have increased his credit limit once it had. Mr G says he was 
struggling to meet his repayments and had a lot of credit elsewhere, too. He says if NewDay 
had done adequate checks on his situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to 
repay his balance in a reasonable length of time. 
NewDay says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr G and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr G  and when it increased his credit limit.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Gs complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the lending decisions were reasonable, but that by August 2016 it was clear that Mr G was 
struggling with managing his finances and that NewDay should have stepped in at this point 
and shown him forbearance so his situation didnt get worse.
 
Our adjudicator said that NewDay should remove any interest and charges applied after 31 
August 2016 and that it should arrange for his credit file to be amended if the outstanding 
balance had been cleared as a result. 
NewDay disagreed. It said it had done sufficient checks and there were no indications of any 
financial strain. It said that Mr G hadnt contacted it about his financial difficulties until 
December 2021. NewDay disputed that this service should look at the way the account was 
managed by it outside of the two lending decisions. 
As NewDay disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Gs complaint.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include things 
like understanding Mr Gs income, the total amount Mr G borrowed, and the length of time 
Mr G had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Mr G opened his account NewDay conducted a credit check. NewDay told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the results 
of the checks, I dont think there is anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable 
for NewDay to have approved the account. They showed that Mr G was relatively highly 
indebted elsewhere but that he was managing his finances appropriately  there were no 
recent defaults or arrears and he wasnt in any payment or debt arrangements. They showed 
he had only £700 in unsecured debt.
.
I think this suggests that the decision to lend the initial £300 was reasonable. There were no 
obvious signs of financial distress and he had relatively low levels of debt. So, I dont think 
NewDay did anything wrong with its original lending decision.
Similarly, I think that when NewDay made the decision to increase Mr Gs credit limit to £950 
in February 2016 that there were no obvious reasons from NewDays credit checks to think 
Mr G wasnt managing his finances well. Mr G had managed his credit card account well for 
the preceding three months and had made his payments on time. In the credit check data 
NewDay has provided there is limited information about his external credit at the time of the 
credit limit increase but there were no defaults or arrears.
This changed two months later in April 2016 when more information became available 
through the credit checks, and it became apparent that Mr G had been heavily reliant on pay 
day loans. Its not clear why this information wasnt available to NewDay from the first 
checks it did. The later checks showed Mr G had taken 56 payday loans in the past. Its not 
clear over what period but I think even if it was over a number of years this shows a reliance 
on high cost easily accessible credit. It also showed that he had opened three of these in the 
preceding three months (that is, from January 2016). The checks also showed that Mr G had 
a high level of revolving credit - £5,651.
I do not think NewDays credit check data was particularly reliable. Mr G has provided a copy 
of his credit file and this shows that in January 2016 alone he took seven payday loans 
totalling about £1,700. In November and December 2015, he took a total of six payday loans 
totalling £1,094. He settled these quickly, never defaulting, but clearly at a very high cost.
 
From April to August 2016 Mr G went over his new limit in four of the five months, incurring 
charges each month. Even though this may not always be a sign of financial difficulty on its 
own, and he was still making his repayments each month, I think this should have been a 
cause for concern for NewDay. I say this because it now had more information available to it 
from its monthly credit checks. By August Mr Gs revolving credit had risen to over £7,000. 
Mr G indicates that he was borrowing to pay off other debts and NewDay knew that Mr G 
was using payday loans  even if it didnt understand the full extent. And, of course, Mr G 
was regularly utilising more than 100% of the credit NewDay considered it appropriate to 
extend to him..Its at this point I think NewDay should have stepped in. NewDay disagrees. It submits that 
this service should not review how it managed Mr Gs account separately to his core 
complaint that the lending decisions were unaffordable for him. It says,  The overlimit and 
payday lending activity have no correlation to the risk checks that were undertaken and so it 
follows that any concerns regarding financial difficulty and the way in which the business 
treated Mr G at that time, is separate to the complaint in hand.  I disagree. As I have 
explained above, I think NewDay should have acted on the risk checks undertaken 
throughout the lending relationship. Mr Gs complaint is about unaffordable lending as a 
whole, so it makes sense that I should look at the evidence in relation to the account in its 
entirety. 
NewDay further submits that when customers go over their credit limits it writes to them to 
tell them to contact it if they are finding it difficult to pay. NewDay says it also signposts 
customers to debt management help. It says that it was Mr Gs responsibility to contact it 
and tell it he was in financial trouble and that he didnt do this until December 2021. It also 
points to parts of the Financial Conduct Authority handbook (known as CONC) and Office of 
Fair Trading guidance which it submits indicates it met its obligations in relation to Mr G.
 
CONC 6.7.3B tells firms to take appropriate action where there are signs of actual or 
possible financial difficulties.  CONC 1.3.1 identifies possible signs of financial difficulties 
such as adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute or an inability to 
meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where there is evidence of 
the customer having to borrow further to repay existing debts.
I am satisfied that the heavy reliance on payday loans indicated that Mr G was unable to 
meet repayments out of his disposable income and that the use of payday loans constitutes 
adverse entries. I think it was clear, taking into account the new credit check information, Mr 
Gs management of his credit limit and the number of over limit charges he incurred in a 
short period of time following the credit limit increase, that Mr G may be in financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances CONC 6.7.3B details appropriate action to include the firm doing 
one or more of the following:
(a) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest, fees 
or charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial 
difficulties and is likely to be unable to meet payments as they fall due or is only 
able to make token payments, where in either case the level of debt would 
continue to rise if interest, fees and charges continue to be applied);
 
(b) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a 
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who 
demonstrates that meeting the customers existing debts would mean not being 
able to meet the customers priority debts or other essential living expenses (such 
as in relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills);
(c) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest, fees or 
charges and of potential financial difficulties; and 
(d) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies and encouraging the 
customer to contact one of them. 
NewDay intimates that by writing to Mr G that it met its obligations. I havent seen evidence 
of such a letter sent to Mr G, but even if it was sent I dont think this was enough to meet 
NewDays obligations to him. NewDay now had new and relevant information available to it 
that it didnt have when it opened Mr Gs account and gave him a credit limit increase. It 
should have acted on that information when there was also evidence that Mr G was 
struggling to manage his account. I think that proportionate action should have been more proactive than sending a generic letter. I agree with our adjudicator that NewDay should 
have stopped charging interest and late payment charges.  
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have continued to charge Mr G from 31 August 2016, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges from that point. However, Mr G has had 
the benefit of all the money he spent on the account, so I think he should pay this back. 
NewDay indicates that Mr Gs account is now closed but for the avoidance of doubt NewDay 
should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied 
to balances from 31 August 2016.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr G along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded
after 31 August 2016 regarding this account from Mr Gs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £950, NewDay should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. Once
Mr G has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded
after 31 August 2016 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and direct NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, to put things right 
in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman