DRN-3394534
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain about the way Santander UK Plc (Santander) handled a residential 
mortgage application.
What happened
Your text here The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ill only 
summarise it here.
Mrs and Mr B tell us they wished to purchase a new property. Through their financial adviser 
they approached Santander, their existing mortgage lender, in February 2021 requesting 
additional lending and to port their existing mortgage.
Mrs and Mr B say Santander initially told them that from an affordability perspective it would 
be close. And told them it would be possible to lend the full amount if they cleared some 
other debts. So they cleared a number of debts including credit card balances and a car 
finance agreement which resulted in them returning one of their 2 cars.
Following this Mrs and Mr B tell us they were provided with a deal in principle for the 
amount they wished to borrow. And say they were told the application would need to be 
underwritten prior to hopefully receiving an offer.
Mrs and Mr B say they were asked and responded to a number of questions about their 
finances. They say they were then told if they reapplied for £50,000 less than they initially 
wished to borrow they should meet the affordability requirements and Santander would look 
to lend to them.
Mrs and Mr B reapplied and say after further questions were asked Santander said the 
maximum it could lend was £143,000 less than they had initially wanted to borrow to 
purchase their new house. So they sought a new lender and had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of £23,000 on their existing mortgage with Santander.
Mrs and Mr B say that not only have they had to pay the ERC but when combined with the 
repayment of other debts it has cost them £49,000 and delays by Santander caused stress 
and anxiety to their family.  
Santander say it didnt inform Mrs and Mr Bs financial adviser that by clearing other debts 
the mortgage application would be accepted. And made it clear that all applications are 
subject to underwriting. It says in May 2021 it offered the maximum loan it could in line with 
its underwriting policy having declined 2 previous applications. And it fairly applied the ERC 
as the existing mortgage, taken out in 2018, was redeemed within the penalty period as 
outlined in the mortgage conditions. It says it didnt cause unnecessary delays.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In her view Santander hadnt acted unfairly in 
handling the mortgage application and she said it had correctly relied on its underwriting 
criteria. She explained she felt Santander had been clear that the application was subject to 
underwriting, and that it had requested more information, and acted on that information in a 
timely manner.
Mrs and Mr B asked that an ombudsman decide their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
In his submission Mr B describes their financial situation as complicated in that along with Mr 
Bs salary and bonuses they have rental properties through a company that employs Mrs B. 
And add that their situation isnt new to Santander, with whom they have an existing 
mortgage and a number of bank accounts. 
Having listened to calls between the financial adviser and Santander after the initial 
application was declined Im satisfied it was exploring ways in which an appeal to its 
mortgage underwriters might succeed. But Santander didnt tell Mrs and Mr B to repay their 
existing debt. Indeed, Santander said even though a debt might be cleared it would still be 
factored in. And it was clear that the decisions in principle were subject to underwriting and 
no guarantees of a mortgage offer were given.
Its not the role of this service to tell mortgage lenders how much it can lend or in what 
circumstances and on what terms, that is a commercial decision for the lender. 
In this case Santander considered all the information requested and provided, and ultimately 
it made a mortgage offer to Mrs and Mr B. But this wasnt as much as Mrs and Mr B wanted 
to borrow so they didnt accept the offer, and made alternative arrangements to finance their 
house purchase.
Santander requested and reviewed a considerable amount of information throughout the 
application process. It declined the initial applications and Im satisfied it acted reasonably in 
determining the offer it made to Mrs and Mr B. I cant see any evidence that there were 
undue delays and Im satisfied it was clear in its communication about the information it 
required to progress the application after it initially declined it on affordability grounds.
Mrs and Mr B feel they werent treated like a valued, long standing customer and they 
wanted to stay with Santander. And feel the ERC should be waived. However, there is no 
dispute that an ERC was allowed within the mortgage conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs existing 
mortgage and I cant fairly ask Santander to waive it in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman