DRN-2594959
The complaint
Mr H has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have handled his no 
claims discount (NCD) on his motor insurance. 
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy on his car and paid a higher premium to ensure he 
had NCD protection on his policy. Mr H had over ten years of NCD protection. His policy set 
out how his NCD protection would be impacted by claims.
In 2017/18, Mr H made a claim against his policy for an incident where he accepted liability 
(incident 1). Mr H had another incident in his car during the same period (incident 2).  He 
thought the third party was accepting liability for the accident.  
He renewed his policy in 2018/19 and Aviva allowed him to protect his NCD (at three years).  
He paid a higher premium for the protection. In this period, Mr H claimed again when some 
debris from the road damaged his car (incident 3).
During 2018/19, the third party didnt accept liability for incident 2, which resulted in the 
incident being recorded as joint liability (50/50). Aviva then issued a letter to Mr H in May 
2019 that said:
As this claim [incident 3] was notified to us prior to the renewal of your policy on 21 
September 2018 but after we had issued your renewal invitation, I need to advise you 
that the protection of your No Claim Discount has now been removed from your 
policy.
The letter indicated that Mr H would be refunded for the extra premium he paid for taking out 
the NCD protection in 2018/19. Mr H complained to Aviva that his NCD protection had been 
removed retrospectively and his NCD had been reduced to one year.  
Aviva had removed Mr Hs protection after incident 2 had been settled and reduced his NCD.  
They did this after Mr H had accepted his renewal offer for 2018/19. It meant Mr H effectively 
started 2018/19 with three years unprotected NCD (after recording two incidents in 2017/18).  
After the third incident, Aviva reduced Mr Hs NCD down to one year.
In responding to Mr Hs complaint, Aviva said it had made a mistake when the renewal 
documentation for 2018/19 had been sent out (allowing Mr H to protect his NCD at three 
years). However, they said they would honour the 2018/19 renewal offer by restating his 
NCD to three years and adjusting the premiums for his upcoming renewal. Following Mr Hs 
acceptance of Avivas proposal, Aviva issued a summary response letter to close the 
complaint.
Mr H then complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service as Aviva didnt do what they 
said they would do. When taking out his policy for 2019/20 Mr H realised his NCD had been 
reduced to one year, which meant he could not protect his NCD. Aviva had not re-instated 
Mr Hs NCD to three years per their agreement in the summary response.
Our investigator looked at the issue and concluded that Mr H made three claims over the 
course of two insured periods. In line with Avivas policy, he is satisfied that Mr Hs NCD 
should be at one year following two incidents in the first period followed by another incident 
in the second period of cover, when the NCD was unprotected. Our investigator has said 
that he doesnt think Mr H has lost out due to the actions of Aviva, so he hasnt asked them 
to refund two years worth of premiums.
Mr H rejected our investigators view and the case has been referred to me as an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 8 January 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this has been a frustrating experience for Mr H. By protecting his NCD, he wanted 
to ensure he protected himself from the cost of future insurance. He is unhappy his 
premiums have been impacted.
Aviva seemed to have accepted it had treated Mr H unfairly, as they agreed to honour the 
original renewal agreement. That seemed fair to me. Mr H agreed and accepted the 
resolution. At this point, Mr H thought he had three years NCD which he could protect.
However, when the renewal was sent for 2019/20, Mr H noticed his NCD had been reduced 
to one year and there was no protection. This caused him to complain again to Aviva before 
referring the complaint to the service.
Aviva have not implemented what they agreed with Mr H in the summary resolution. I have 
looked at why Aviva withdrew their original offer by asking some further clarification from 
them. They said the case was never escalated internally to their customer care team and 
there were no notes on their system of the NCD ever being reinstated. Aviva said they have 
reduced the NCD in line with their policy terms and their customer service team have no 
record of a conversation taking place with the customer. I also asked Aviva why they 
changed their minds by withdrawing the initial offer. Aviva said they did not change their 
minds, as they were unaware of the agreement and have no record of it.
I have seen evidence from Aviva of their call notes highlighting an agreement was made with 
Mr H, which I think it is reasonable to assume led to the summary resolution letter been sent 
to the customer on the same day. I dont think Aviva have provided a good reason for not 
honouring their original agreement with Mr H. They have just disowned it. I dont think thats 
fair and reasonable, so I intend to uphold the complaint.
Mr H needs to be put back in the position he was in had Aviva honoured their summary 
resolution. Aviva need to adjust their records, so that Mr H has NCD of three years at the 
start of the 2019/20 policy.  In addition, Aviva need to refund Mr H any extra he paid as a 
result of the three years not being applied. It will need to do the same for his next policy if it 
has been taken that out with Aviva. As Mr H has unfairly been without those extra premiums 
Aviva will need to add simple interest at 8% to the amount it refunds. 
Finally, I have estimated £150 as a fair and reasonable estimate of the trouble and upset Mr 
H has received in relation to the complaint for Aviva not honouring their original agreement 
and for the time it has taken to resolve the complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party has disagreed with the provisional decision, therefore, I dont intend to change 
it. However, the information that has been received means I will need to change the award to 
reflect the change in circumstances.
Aviva have said they cant modify their records, so I would like them to provide a letter to Mr 
H which confirms he had three years NCD when he stopped his cover in September 2019. 
That way he can use this as evidence of his NCD when he acquires new insurance. Mr H 
can also use this letter to get an appropriate refund from his current insurer in respect to the 
premium he has paid for 2020/21. This places a small burden on Mr H to sort out the 
recovery of his money from his current insurer, so I am going to increase the trouble and 
upset from £150 to £200.
Aviva did not respond with a price impact for the NCD error on their policy but Mr H provided 
evidence of the policies he has taken out in 19/20 and 20/21, including what NCD was 
assumed. With Mr H not renewing at Aviva in 2019/20 there are no premiums to refund. Mr 
Hs estimate of £60 for the additional premium he has paid in 2019/20 seems reasonable. I 
am going to ask Aviva to compensate Mr H and increase this amount to £75 to recognise he 
has been without this money for a period of time.
For this reason, I have decided to amend the redress and I intend Aviva to:
           Send a letter to Mr H showing that he had three years NCD at September 2019
           Pay £75 compensation for the higher premiums Mr H has incurred in 2019/20
           Pay £200 for trouble and upset caused.
I allowed a further 7 days for either party to make any further comments, at which point I said 
I will make my final decision.
Both Aviva and Mr H responded to say they accept my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and amended redress, so this will now 
become my final decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons I have given I require Aviva 
Insurance Ltd to:
Send a letter to Mr H showing that he had three years NCD at September 2019
Pay £75 compensation for the higher premiums Mr H has incurred in 2019/20
Pay £200 for trouble and upset caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman