DRN-3869452
The complaint
Ms P complained about unauthorised debits on her account with Bank of Ireland (UK) Pic, 
and about poor customer service when she tried to sort it out.
What happened
Ms P had a Post Office Money account, administered by Bank of Ireland, which shed 
opened in June 2018.
On 1 May 2019, Ms P transferred her balance out, leaving a zero balance.  
Bank of Ireland sent Ms P an email on 2 June 2020. This said that the account had had a 
zero balance for a while and wasnt earning any interest. So Bank of Ireland would close the 
account on or shortly after 15 August. It says Ms P read this email, though it hasnt provided 
evidence of that.  But Bank of Irelands computer system didnt close it after all.
On 15, 16 and 18 February 2021, Ms P credited the account with three £2 direct debits, 
bringing the balance to £6. But there were then two debits, marked as  account transfer 
within a few days, bringing the balance to zero again.
Ms P sent another direct debit £2 credit on 24 November, and that too was debited on 30 
November, labelled account transfer bringing the balance to zero.  
The same thing happened in December, with a £2 credit on 24th, and an account transfer 
debit on 5 January 2022.
Ms P hadnt authorised any of these debits, so she rang Bank of Ireland on 10 January and 
many other occasions. She kept being told to ring back. She kept trying, and on 14 
February, in a 40 minute phone call, she was promised swift resolution and told to ring 
again the next day, 15 February. When she did so, she was told it was too soon for Bank of 
Irelands back office even to have looked at it, and to ring again at the end of the next day.
Ms P rang at the end of the next day, 16 February  and was again told it was too soon for 
the back office even to have looked at it, and to ring again in three or four days. Ms P felt the 
situation was getting ridiculous and that she was being fobbed off. She asked Bank of 
Irelands representative whether she needed to complain to this service, and he replied that 
she could if she wanted to. Ms P contacted this service, and she also sent a formal 
complaint to Bank of Ireland on 28 February.
In the meantime, there had been four further transactions on Ms Ps account, which she 
hadnt authorised. These consisted of three £2 credits labelled Return and then the £6 
balance was debited, with the wording Account transfer, again returning the balance to 
zero.
Ms P chased Bank of Ireland on 25 March, because she hadnt had a reply to her complaint 
of 28 February. Bank of Ireland told her that it hadnt received her letter, and asked her to 
send it again by email, which she did. By 12 April, Ms P still hadnt had an 
acknowledgement.
Bank of Ireland issued a final response letter on 21 April. It said that it had transferred three 
debited £2 transactions to Ms Ps nominated account on 13 January 2022 due to our low 
balance policy. Bank of Ireland said it had sent Ms P a letter about this on 27 January. This 
service later asked Bank of Ireland for a copy, and the letter had asked Ms P to ring but 
hadnt given any other information. The final response letter continued by saying that when 
Ms P had phoned on 14 February, its agent had told Ms P about the low balance policy and 
the transfer, and shed then asked why Bank of Ireland had transferred the £6 balance on 14 
January. Bank of Ireland said it had investigated but didnt know why the money had been 
transferred.
Bank of Ireland apologised for transferring the money to Ms Ps nominated account on 14 
January without notifying her, and for not having given clearer information about the low 
balance policy. It recognised the costs of phone calls and offered Ms P £75 compensation 
for trouble and upset. 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Bank of Irelands reply. She told us that with regret she couldnt 
accept Bank of Irelands final response, because it hadnt addressed the original issues. She 
said the funds listed as Account transfer hadnt been sent to her nominated account, as 
the final response had alleged. She also pointed out that shed clearly told Bank of Ireland 
that she needed to know why the money had been transferred, and where it was transferred 
to, because the money hadnt reached her nominated account. 
Ms P sent us a copy of her Bank of Ireland statement and also her nominated account, to 
prove that she hadnt received the money which Bank of Ireland claimed it had sent to her. 
Ms P told us she wanted to close the account, but couldnt do so until all her money was 
accounted for. She asked for our help in finding out where the money had actually gone, and 
asked if what Bank of Ireland did with the £6 would be classed as theft, and what the legal 
implications would be. 
Our investigator said he could see why Ms P was concerned about the transactions leaving 
her account, especially as she didnt know where the money had gone. He explained that he 
couldnt comment on any legal aspects of the complaint, but had looked at it from a 
customer service point of view.
The investigator found out from Bank of Ireland that what it had said in the final response 
letter wasnt correct. Bank of Ireland told him that what had actually happened was that it 
had closed Ms Ps account as part of its small balance closure process and that instead of 
sending the money to Ms P, it had sent it to a Community Giving Fund, held by a charitable 
foundation. The investigator thought that Bank of Ireland should refund Ms P with the £6, in 
addition to the £75 compensation which Bank of Ireland had offered in the final response 
letter.
Ms P didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulations
I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The disputed 
transactions on Ms Ps account took place between February 2021 and January 2022, and 
the relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place on those dates are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them.
Here, both sides agreed that Ms P didnt authorise the £2 debits from her account on 22 
February, 30 November or 5 January 2022. Nor did she authorise the account transfer of 
£6 on 14 January 2022, which Bank of Ireland said it had sent to Ms Ps nominated account, 
but later admitted it had sent elsewhere. As Ms P never authorised these debits, I found that 
under the Payment Services Regulations, Bank of Ireland was liable for the payments and 
must refund her, together with interest at 8%.
Bank of Irelands justification for debiting Ms Ps account.
I looked at what Bank of Ireland said about its reasons for debiting Ms Ps account. In its 
final response letter, it said it had transferred the disputed money to Ms Ps bank account. 
That was what it apologised for doing, without Ms Ps authority. But it hadnt in fact refunded 
her at all. It had sent the money to a charity instead. So the final response letter was 
incorrect, and it didnt provide Ms P with any answers because she knew she hadnt had the 
money back.
I asked Bank of Ireland for more information about its low balance policy which it had used 
to justify the debits. I also asked for the terms and conditions which applied when Ms P 
opened her account. Bank of Ireland sent the terms and conditions, but not a copy of the 
policy. I looked at the terms and conditions. Section 50, headed Closing your account 
provided that:
We may close your account by giving you at least 30 days notice if:

b) your account has the minimum allowable balance as per your product specific terms and 
conditions and / or has not been used in the last 12 months.
As Ive set out above, Bank of Ireland says it sent Ms P an email on 2 June 2020, saying that 
the account had had a zero balance for a while and wasnt earning any interest, and that the 
account would be closed on or shortly after 15 August. That would have been in line with the 
terms and conditions, because Ms P hadnt used the account since 1 May 2019, and it 
provided proper notice. But Bank of Irelands computer system didnt close it after all. 
By the time Bank of Ireland started debiting Ms Ps account in February 2021, it was no 
longer true that the account hadnt been used for 12 months.  Ive also seen no evidence 
that Ms P was told, either when she opened the account or later, that there was a minimum 
balance and/or how much that was. It isnt in the terms and conditions Bank of Ireland sent 
us. Nor is it in the email saying Bank of Ireland would be closing Ms Ps account on 15 
August 2020. That just said the account had had a zero balance for a while and Given that 
fraudulent activity is more likely to go undetected on inactive accounts, for your own peace 
of mind and protection were giving you notice that your account is going to be closed. Bank of Ireland compounded the unauthorised debiting of Ms Ps account by not transferring 
the money back to her, but by transferring it to a charity of its choice. I saw nothing in the 
terms and conditions which Bank of Ireland sent us, which sets out powers for it to do this. I 
considered there should have been specific provision for this in the terms and conditions, so 
customers would know this was part of what they were signing up to. I also consider that 
Bank of Ireland should have written to Ms P at the time when it transferred the money to its 
charity, to notify her of what had happened and why, and giving her an option to have the 
money back if she wished. It didnt do so.
Customer service 
Banks have eight weeks to reply to complaints, and Bank of Ireland did do that, replying to 
the 28 February complaint on 21 April, a few days under the time limit  though the 
information in that final response wasnt accurate, as Ive set out above. 
But customer service is wider than whether a complaint has been answered within eight 
weeks. By the time Ms P complained, shed been asking for answers since early 2022 and 
the customer service shed received during that time had been very poor. Shed had to 
chase Bank of Ireland many times in January and February. Bank of Ireland repeatedly told 
her to ring again the next day, only to say it was too early and she should ring again. She 
never did get a satisfactory answer to her questions about what had happened. I agreed with 
Ms P that she did indeed keep being fobbed off, as she said. Bank of Ireland kept telling 
her to ring back the next day, and when she did, said its team couldnt possibly have started 
to look at it yet. 
It doesnt make any difference that the amounts were small. Money had disappeared from 
Ms Ps account which she hadnt authorised and which Bank of Ireland didnt appear to take 
seriously. I could understand why she was upset and frustrated at not getting an answer. 
When Bank of Ireland did eventually get in touch on 27 January, it just asked her to make 
yet another phone call, instead of answering Ms Ps questions about what had happened. 
Compensation
When we award compensation, there are two elements: financial loss, and compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
In terms of financial loss, the amount which Bank of Ireland debited from Ms P without 
authorisation was £6, so I said this was the sum which it must refund to her, plus interest at 
8% from the date it debited the amounts, to the date of payment. 
In terms of compensation for distress and inconvenience, it was clear that Ms P suffered a 
great deal of frustration, upset and inconvenience from Bank of Irelands repeated poor 
customer service where it failed to provide prompt accurate answers about why it had 
debited her account  even including final response stage. Bank of Ireland also made 
multiple errors in debiting Ms Ps account when the terms and conditions didnt provide for 
such debits, and in transferring her money to a charity without this being provided for in the 
terms and conditions, and without telling her. The scope of this service doesnt including 
punishing a bank for that sort of error, because thats the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. But I have the power to consider the impact these errors had on Ms P, 
and award compensation for distress and inconvenience.  I find that £75 compensation 
which Bank of Ireland offered at the stage when it believed it had transferred Ms Ps money 
back to her, is insufficient, both for that upset and for what subsequently came to light about 
what had actually happened. I considered that a more reasonable figure would be £150. Responses to my provisional decision
Bank of Ireland accepted my provisional decision.
Ms P didnt reply by the date set for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I order Bank of Ireland (UK) Pic to pay Ms P:
- £6 which was the balance on her account, which it sent to a charity instead of to Ms 
P, without her consent;
- Interest on this amount from 14 January 2022 when it debited the money from her 
account, to the date of payment, at the standard county court rate of 8% pa simple;
- £150 compensation for the poor service it provided;
- The current position of the account is still unclear, as Bank of Ireland didnt answer 
this question in its response to the provisional decision. Ms P wanted the account to 
be closed. So, if the account has not been closed, I order Bank of Ireland to close the 
account and confirm in writing to Ms P that it has done this, sending her a closing 
statement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman