DRN-3047104
The complaint
 Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing his 
overdraft limit when he was in financial difficulty.
 
What happened
 Mr F complained to Lloyds after it increased his overdraft limit from £100 to £4,600 over a 
matter of days and continued charging him excessive amounts when he was in financial 
difficulty. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr F was dissatisfied he referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Lloyds ought to 
have realised that Mr F was experiencing financial difficulty by 19 October 2016 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it increased 
Mr Fs overdraft limit on 19 October 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr F 
was in no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, it was clear that Mr F was having difficulty managing his money. A cursory look 
at Mr Fs statements show that he was making regular payments to a debt management 
company. In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Mr F was at a 
significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with 
forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to his 
overdraft. 
Mr F ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Fs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Fs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the limit increase on 19 October 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Fs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in 19 October 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr F along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Fs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman