DRN-3241174
The complaint
Mr M complains Wise Payments Limited (Wise) took away a guaranteed exchange rate.
What happened
Mr M has an account with Wise and uses it to send money overseas. One feature is a 
guaranteed rate. This allows customers to fix a rate for a short period without having money 
in their account, but customers must credit their Wise account to complete the transfer.
Mr M set up over 40 transfers, using the guaranteed rate, in early November 2020 but only 
completed three. Wise sent Mr M an email to say it had stopped him from using the 
guaranteed rate for 48 hours.
Wise also said if Mr M continued to set up transfers without paying for them Wise would 
remove the guaranteed rate feature.
Following this email, Mr M set up over 20 transfers in early December 2020 but only sent 
two. Wise sent Mr M a further email to say it had removed the guaranteed rate feature.
Unhappy with this Mr M complained to Wise and said the removal of the guaranteed rate 
was unfair and hed like it reinstated.
Wise responded to say it told Mr M it would remove the guaranteed rate feature if he 
continued to set up transfers and not complete them. Because Mr M had continued to do 
this, Wise had taken away the feature.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service, and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought Wise 
could remove the guaranteed rate, its terms and conditions allowed it to.
The investigator also thought Wise had clearly explained to Mr M what would happen if he 
continued to set up transfers and not complete them. Mr M didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to look into things.
Mr M says he didnt do anything wrong and cant see Wise is getting a benefit from removing 
the guaranteed rate as it needs customers. Mr M also asked this service to convince Wise to 
replace the guaranteed rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Wises terms and conditions covering the guaranteed rate. In short, they say 
customers shouldnt create multiple transfers without the intention of completing all the 
transfers. And the terms go on to state if Wise sees this behaviour it can, at its discretion, 
suspend or terminate an account.
Theres no dispute Mr M set up numerous transfers, using the guaranteed rate feature, and 
only a few were sent. Mr M says some of these transfers were set up but not sent because 
he got the amount wrong, some because he got the recipients name wrong and some were 
because he was waiting for money to credit in order to complete the transfers.
I think Wise clearly warned Mr M what would happen if he continued to set up transfers 
using the guaranteed rate feature and not completing them.
When Mr M continued to set up guaranteed rate transfers, then not send them, Wise 
removed this feature. Mr M set up over 20 transfers following Wises warning email but didnt 
contact Wise to explain any errors hed made with these transfers.
I think Wises terms and conditions around the guaranteed rate feature are clear and I think 
its clear Mr M breached these terms. Wises warning was clear, and Im satisfied Mr M both 
received and opened the warning email, Wise has sent me evidence of this.
Mr M would like this service to convince Wise to allow him to send guaranteed rate transfers 
again. But I wont be doing this, Im looking at whether Wise was fair in removing this 
feature, and for the reasons above I think it was.
Its up to Wise whether it wants to offer this feature, or an account at all. Because I dont 
think Wise has made a mistake taking away the guaranteed rate feature, I wont be asking 
Wise to do anything different.
And its up to Wise to make its own commercial decisions and how that might impact existing 
or potential consumers, but Ive looked at whether this decision is fair.
I think Wise has made a fair and reasonable decision to remove Mr Ms guaranteed rate 
feature, so I wont be asking Wise to reinstate it or do anything else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman