DRN-3168048
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC increased the credit limit on her credit account 
on several occasions, all of which she feels werent affordable for her at those times.
What happened
Ms M has a credit account with Barclays. In February 2016, at the request of Ms M, Barclays 
increased the credit limit on the account from £2,500 to £3,000. Ms M requested a further 
credit limit increase on the account in July 2016, which was accepted by Barclays and which 
resulted in the credit limit being increased by Barclays from £3,000 to £4,000.
In July 2017, Barclays proactively increased the credit limit on the account from £4,000 to 
£5,500. Further proactive credit limits followed  from £5,500 to £7,000 in March 2018, and 
from £7,000 to £8,500 in September 2018.
In 2021, Ms M raised a complaint with Barclays because she felt that all of the credit limit 
increases referred to above had been unaffordable for her at those times, and that this 
should have been apparent to Barclays, had they undertaken checks into her financial 
position at those times before offering the credit limit increases to her.
Barclays looked at Ms Ms complaint. They explained that they had undertaken checks into 
Ms Ms financial position before offering the credit limit increases to her, and they felt that on 
all occasions thered been nothing resulting from these checks that should reasonably have 
given them any cause to suspect that Ms M might not be able to afford the further credit 
being offered to her.
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that there hadnt been 
anything resulting from the checks that Barclays had undertaken into Ms Ms financial 
position which should have given Barclays cause to not offer further credit to Ms M, and so 
they also didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here, and confirm that before each credit limit increase they 
reviewed how Ms M had managed the credit account in the months leading up to that 
increase so as to monitor for any signs that Ms M might have been struggling financially 
such that the credit shouldnt reasonably be offered. Additionally, Barclays also confirm that 
they obtained information from a credit reference agency about Ms M to better understand 
her wider financial position. 
It's also notable that the information that Barclays obtained from the credit reference agency 
included affordability assessment modelling, based upon that credit reference agencys 
recognition and understanding of Ms Ms spending patterns, which was itself based on 
monthly information reported to it by Ms Ms current account provider. Barclays were entitled 
to use such an affordability modelling tool, and its notable that this method continued to 
suggest that Ms M could afford all the credit limit increases being offered to her. I will now 
consider each separate credit limit increase in turn.
February 2016 increase - £2,500 to £3,000
The credit account statements for the months leading up to this credit limit increase dont 
show any reasonable signs that Ms M might have been struggling financially at that time. I 
say this because Ms M wasnt using the credit account for regular or essential spending, but 
instead used the account for balance transfers from other credit accounts in order to benefit 
from the promotional 0% interest rate offered by this credit account on such transfers. 
Additionally, Ms M was able to make payments of £500 per month to reduce and clear the 
balance of the account before any interest became due on the account. 
Additionally, the information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference agency, and the 
affordability modelling that they conducted using that information, also appeared to show 
that Ms M could in all likelihood afford the additional  £500 credit that shed requested. And 
in consideration of these points Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
have provided this further credit to Ms M.
July 2016 increase - £3,000 to £4,000
The credit account statements for the months leading up to this credit limit increase show 
that, while Ms M did use the account for regular spending more frequently, she continued to 
make payments of £500 per month towards the account and was able to maintain the 
balance of the account comfortably and significantly below the credit limit of £3,000. As 
such, Im satisfied that there wasnt anything in how Ms M was managing her account that 
should have given Barclays any reason to suspect that Ms M might be experiencing any 
form of financial difficulty at that time.
Similarly, having reviewed the information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference 
agency about Ms Ms wider financial position before offering this credit limit, including the 
affordability assessment, Im satisfied that there was nothing within that information which I 
feel should have reasonably given Barclays any cause not to provide Ms M with the further 
credit that shes requested. This includes that Ms M wasnt in arrears on any of her other 
credit commitments at that time and that there were no other indicators of potential financial 
difficulty present in the credit file information that Barclays reviewed. 
July 2017 increase - £4,000 to £5,500
In the months leading up to this credit limit increase the balance of the account does 
fluctuate, with Ms Ms account usage and further balance transfers taking the balance of the 
account close, but never over, the £4,000 credit limit. Ms M then makes a large payment to 
the account to reduce the balance to close to zero, only to then transfer a significant portion of her available credit limit - £3,600  to her current account, incurring a fee in excess of 
£100 as a result.
Such a transfer could be seen as an indicator of potential financial difficulty. But importantly, 
Ms M never exceeded the credit limit on her account, and she continued to make payments 
of £500 per month to the account throughout this period, and had made two such payments, 
reducing the balance of the account by £1,000 by the time that Barclays implemented the 
credit limit increase to £5,500 which Ms M had been offered and hadnt declined.
These regular £500 payments are significant, because while a large transfer to a current 
account such as Ms M had undertaken could be seen as being an indicator of potential 
financial difficulty, such a transfer can also be a legitimate way of using the credit account 
that the account holder is entitled to choose to undertake. 
If it were the case that Ms M had made such a transfer and was then struggling to reduce 
the balance on the account, then this would be more indictive of potential financial difficulty. 
But the wider context of this account was that Ms M continued to make monthly payments 
towards the account that were significantly larger than the minimum monthly payments 
required and which would clear the balance of the credit account in a very reasonable time, 
should they continue without further account spending.
Additionally, while Ms M approached the credit limit on her account, she never exceeded it. 
And the affordability assessment and information that Barclays gathered from a credit 
reference agency continued to suggest that Mr M wouldnt is struggle to repay the further 
credit and to show that Ms M wasnt in arrears on any of her other credit commitments or 
provide any indication that Ms M might have been struggling financially at that time. As such, 
in consideration of all this information, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to 
conclude that Miss M could in all likelihood afford the further credit being offered to her here, 
and that it was therefore fair to Barclays to have offered such further credit to her.
March 2018 increase - £5,500 to £7,000
In the months leading up to this credit limit increase, the account statements continue to 
show that Ms M was making monthly payments of £500, which remained significantly higher 
than the minimum monthly payments required on the account. Ms M did make further 
transfers to bank, but at no point did this result in Ms M exceeding the credit limit on her 
account, and the £500 per month payments that Ms M was making continued to reduce the 
overall balance. 
As such, much of the same reasoning I provided as to why I felt the previous credit limit 
increase wasnt unreasonable applies here. Because while the transfers to bank that Ms M 
was making could be considered as being indicators of potential financial difficulty within the 
appropriate wider context, the actual wider context here was that Ms M was using the 
account in a way which she was entitled to, didnt exceed the credit limit on the account at 
any time, and continued to make significant monthly repayments indicative of someone who 
could afford to clear the balance of the account in a reasonable time.
Additionally, the updated credit file information that Barclays obtained about Ms M once 
again didnt show any indication that Ms M was struggling to meet her other credit 
commitments or that she might struggle to repay the further credit. So, Im satisfied that it 
was fair and reasonable for Barclays to have offered this further credit to Ms M at this time.
September 2018 increase - £7,000 to £8,500Much of what Ive what Ive explained for the previous two credit limit increases also applies 
here, and its notable in regard to this credit limit increase that Ms M had no usage on the 
account in the three months leading up to the credit limit increase while continuing to reduce 
the account balance by £500 per month. And similar to the previous two credit limit 
increases I dont feel that this account usage should have reasonably given Barclays any 
cause to suspect that Ms M might not be able to afford the credit limit increase being offered 
to her.
Additionally, the information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference agency also 
didnt provide any reasonable indicators that Ms M might be in any form of financial difficulty 
at that time, and the affordability modelling continued to suggest that Ms M would in all 
likelihood be able to afford the further credit being offered to her. As such, Im satisfied that it 
was fair for Barclays to have offered this final credit limit increase to Ms M when they did.
Summary
Having considered all the available evidence and information Im satisfied that before 
offering any of the credit limit increases to Ms M, Barclays did undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks into Ms Ms financial position at those times and also that there was 
nothing resulting from those checks that should have given Barclays any reasonable cause 
to suspect that Ms M might not be able to afford the further credit such that it shouldnt have 
been offered and provided to her.
That doesnt mean that Ms M wasnt struggling financially at any time  only that I dont feel 
that Barclays should have reasonably concluded that Mr M was in financial difficulty at the 
times of the credit limit increases from the information that they considered and assessed.
Ultimately, in circumstances such as this, where a customer continues to make significant 
regular monthly repayments towards an account, I find it very difficult to envisage a situation 
where the credit provider should reasonably suspect that that customer is potentially in 
financial difficulty, given these ongoing large repayments, such that further credit shouldnt 
fairly be offered to them.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unreasonably or unfairly 
towards Ms M by offering her the credit limit increases that they did here, and it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action 
at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms M was wanting, but I hope that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman