DRN-4002399
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain about the way Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as 
Insure the Box (ANDI) handled queries under Mrs Hs motor insurance policy which led to 
cancellation of the policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mrs H took out a policy with ANDI in July 2022.
Her husband, Mr H and her daughter were named drivers on the policy.
In August 2022 ANDI requested further information including proof of NCD, 
confirmation the NCD wasnt used against any other policy or vehicle and an 
explanation as to why a claim from November 2019 hadnt been disclosed.
ANDI indicated it would cancel the policy in 10 days if it didnt receive this 
information.
 Mr H emailed the information requested and advised that Mrs H had been the driver 
at the time of the accident in November 2019 on a policy in his name.
On 5 September 2022 ANDI requested Mrs H contact them to add details of the 
claim that occurred on the policy in Mr Hs name. It stated contact must be made by 
12 September 2022 days or the policy would be cancelled.
There was an exchange of emails in which Mr H set out his view that the claim 
should be associated with the driver not the policyholder. And expressed his concern 
at the threat of cancelling the policy. He also advised that the fitting of the Blackbox 
had been cancelled twice and then a fitter arrived just as he and Mrs H were about to 
leave the house.
ANDI explained it took the view that as the policy under which the claim was incurred 
was in Mr Hs name it should be declared as a claim against him as the policyholder. 
And as he was a named driver under this new policy Mrs H should declare one of her 
named drivers had a claim on a previous policy.
Mr H advised ANDI he and Mrs H had sourced an alternative policy and raised a 
complaint. He said they shouldnt be penalised for the way ANDI had dealt with the 
queries, and that he felt he had no choice other than to cancel the policy as he was 
concerned at the implications of ANDI cancelling the policy. He says he experienced 
difficulties in contacting ANDI by phone and there were lengthy waiting times.
Our investigator upheld part of the complaint. She said ANDI should refund the £20 
cost incurred in removing the Blackbox provided evidence of payment was provided. 
And it should pay Mrs and Mr H £50 to reflect the stress and inconvenience caused 
by the delayed appointment. However, she didnt think ANDI had done anything 
wrong in asking for details of the claim under Mr Hs previous policy. So didnt make 
any award for the costs Mrs and Mr H incurred by cancelling the ANDI policy and 
obtaining a new policy elsewhere. 
Mrs and Mr H didnt agree with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman decide 
their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
I appreciate Mrs and Mr H have strong feelings on his case and if I dont mention a particular 
point theyve made it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel it necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mrs and Mr H dont take this 
as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I have some sympathy with Mrs and Mr H, and for the avoidance of doubt I make no 
suggestion there was any deliberate attempt to conceal the claim from November 2019. 
However, I find it reasonable for ANDI to seek clarity and ask why Mrs H hadnt initially 
declared there had been a claim on a policy held by one of her named divers, Mr H.
The situation became more confused than it might have been as Mr H initially applied for the 
ANDI policy himself but in the end the application was made in the name of Mrs H. There 
was a disagreement as to who the claim should be attached to and, in the circumstances of 
this case, Im satisfied ANDI acted reasonably. It explained it was important a claim on a 
previous policy held by one of the named drivers on this policy needed to be declared by the 
proposer regardless of who was driving the car at the time of the claim. 
Ultimately Mrs and Mr H chose to cancel the policy and I cannot reasonably ask ANDI to 
compensate Mrs and Mr H for the additional costs they incurred in arranging a policy with 
another provider.
Im satisfied ANDI gave Mrs H reasonable deadlines for providing information and provided 
contact options including live chat as well as phone contact. And Mrs and Mr H havent 
provided any evidence of a series of unanswered calls.
I also agree with our investigator that there were service failings by ANDI around the fitting 
and removal of the Blackbox.
Putting things right
ANDI should cover the costs incurred by Mrs and Mr H in removing the Blackbox and pay 
£50 in recognition of the service failings when fitting the Blackbox.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Insure 
the Box to pay Mrs and Mr H £20 to cover the cost of removing the Blackbox provided a 
receipt is provided. And it should pay £50 in recognition of its service failing around the fitting 
of the Blackbox.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman