DRN-2684131
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has administered his bank account. 
What happened
Mr C complained that Barclays had not sent him a letter notifying him of an increase in his 
packaged bank account fees. Barclays said it had posted the letter on Mr Cs online account 
correspondence portal. Mr C said he couldnt see it, and also that Barclays also made an 
error saying it had put a letter about his complaint onto the correspondence portal, but then 
had apologised when this had not happened. 
Mr C wants an apology and £100 compensation for his time and effort.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and said he thought Barclays had probably notified 
Mr C of the increase in fees, and that it had responded to the complaint reasonably. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has provided me with a screen shot showing the correspondence appearing on 
Mr Cs online account  at least as seen from within Barclays. It certainly appears that 
Barclays has taken reasonable steps to try to notify Mr C of the increase in fees. Mr C insists 
that he was not able to see it. And he refers to a later example when Barclays told him that it 
had put a letter onto the account, but had then admitted it had not. 
It does seem likely that Mr C has had technical issues with seeing his online account. I dont 
have enough evidence to say whether this is the fault of Barclays or of the equipment or 
software Mr C is using, or even the way he is using it. But I dont think I need to resolve that 
point. 
This is because I think Barclays has tried to resolve the issue reasonably. And I think, 
annoying though it is, having to sort out technical problems of this nature is something that 
we all must deal with from time to time. At this level of significance, I dont think this is 
something in itself that should attract compensation.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman
