DRN-2365504
Complaint
Mrs S says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
Background
Mrs S took out the PPI when she applied for a credit card in March 2006. 
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mrs Ss outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC could not confirm how the policy was sold, but Mrs S says the sale took place during 
a meeting at a branch. During the meeting, HSBC had to make it clear to Mrs S that the 
policy was optional, and it had to get her consent before applying PPI to her account. HSBC 
says it would have done this, but Mrs S says she wasnt aware PPI was added. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened 
when the PPI was sold.
Over the years, weve seen a number of HSBC cases involving PPI policies sold during a 
meeting and from around the same period Mrs S was sold PPI. Using what I know generally 
of HSBCs sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mrs S would have been 
given an option to take out the PPI and that HSBC would have gained her consent before 
adding it to her credit card account. The sale took place some 16 years ago, so its 
understandable Mrs S may not remember this now.
In addition, HSBC has confirmed the PPI appeared on Mrs Ss credit card statements. So, 
while Mrs S says she didnt know she had PPI, I think its likely she would have seen PPI 
being charged to her account and if she wasnt sure what it was for, I would have expected 
her to query the transactions with HSBC much sooner. 
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mrs S was aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
Neither party could confirm whether Mrs S received advice when she took the policy. So, in 
fairness to Mrs S, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given. This puts 
more responsibility on HSBC  it means it had to check the policy was suitable for her. And 
based on what Mrs S has told us about her circumstances at the time  I think it was.
From the information Ive seen, Mrs S was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the things that might have made it harder for her to claim on 
the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or unusual employment 
circumstances.
Mrs S says she was entitled to statutory sick pay (SSP) and that she had some savings 
she could have used. She also says she had a car and a house at the time. And her family 
and friends could have helped her if necessary. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs S has said, but I dont think SSP would have 
been enough for her to meet her financial commitments long term. The PPI would have paid 
out on top of any SSP she received and potentially for longer. So, I think it could have been 
useful to her. 
I also think its unlikely Mrs S would have wanted to use her car or her house to make her 
credit card repayments if she could avoid doing so. And the PPI would have enabled Mrs S 
to use her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a 
difficult time.
While her family and friends may have offered to help, circumstances could change which 
means their help couldnt always be relied on. So overall, I think the policy could have been 
useful to her if she fell on hard times and I dont think what shes said shows the policy 
wasnt right for her. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mrs S. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs S, HSBC also needed to give her 
enough information about the policy so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs S about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mrs S, I dont think better information would have made a difference to her decision to 
buy it.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, so HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman