DRN-3513982
The complaint
Ms H complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined her terminal illness claim 
under her level term assurance policy. 
Ms H has been supported with her complaint by a charity. But for ease, Ill only refer to Ms H 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Ms H took out a level term assurance policy (the policy) in May 2008. The policy provided a 
sum assured of £150,000 in the event Ms H died during the 14-year policy term. The policy 
also offered terminal illness benefit, this allowed for an early payment of the sum assured if 
Ms H was diagnosed with an advanced or (rapidly progressing) incurable illness where her 
life expectancy was no greater than 12 months. This additional benefit was not available in 
the final 12 months of the policy, so any claim had to be made before May 2021.  
Ms H was sadly diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer in 2019 and given a terminal 
prognosis. She initially made a claim to Aviva for terminal illness benefit in September 2019, 
but it was turned down as Aviva said her prognosis didnt meet the policy definition of 
terminal illness.
Ms H made a second claim under the policy in November 2020. Aviva requested some 
further medical evidence to assess the claim, but ultimately declined it on the basis that the 
terminal illness definition hadnt been met. It explained Ms Hs medical records had been 
reviewed by Avivas Chief Medical Officer, a practising oncologist, who was unable to 
support that her prognosis was less than 12 months. 
Unhappy with the outcome Ms H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She 
considered the evidence from her treating consultant supported that she had a terminal 
illness. She also complained that Aviva had caused unnecessary delays while considering 
her claim. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva had 
reasonably concluded the medical evidence didnt support that Ms Hs life expectancy was 
less than 12 months. While she noted the delays in obtaining the evidence to assess the 
claim for the second time, our Investigator was satisfied that Aviva had proactively chased 
for the information and so wasnt responsible for the delays. But she also concluded that 
even if the information had been obtained sooner it wouldnt have made a difference to the 
eventual claim outcome, so Ms H hadnt been disadvantaged.  
Ms H disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am truly sorry to read about Ms Hs diagnosis. I can see that pursuing this claim has been a 
difficult and upsetting time for her.
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this wont be the answer Ms H hoped for. Id like to reassure Ms H that I 
havent taken this decision lightly. I realise this is a very difficult time for her. While I dont 
want to add to her distress, I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
Ms Hs claim. Ill explain why.
Its not for me to reach a medical opinion on whether Ms H met the above definition. Nor can  
decide complaints on a discretionary or compassionate basis. Instead, I must consider 
whether Aviva assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and 
opinions it was presented with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that it did.
Aviva is only required to pay a claim if the specific policy wording has been met during the 
policy term. The policy terms and conditions set out that the policy benefit will be paid if a 
member is diagnosed with a terminal illness (unless that diagnosis is made within the 12 
months before the date on which your membership will end and may not be renewed. 
Terminal illness is defined as Advanced (or rapidly progressing) incurable illness where in 
the opinion of an attending consultant and our Chief Medical Officer the life expectancy is no 
greater than 12 months.
So, for a claim to be successful, there would need to be persuasive medical evidence that 
Ms H was believed to have less than 12 months to live prior to May 2021. 
Aviva sought evidence from two of Ms Hs treating consultants, who Ill refer to as Dr A and 
Dr D, both consultant oncologists, while assessing her claim in September 2019 and 
November 2020. 
In March 2020, Dr A confirmed Ms Hs diagnosis and treatment plan. He explained Ms Hs 
disease is metastatic and as such is a terminal illness. Her lifespan will much depend on the 
response of her tumour to her current or subsequent treatments and/or to any potential 
toxicity from either the tumour or her treatment. He explained that patients receiving the 
same treatment as Ms H, had a median life expectancy of 22 months, but he said it was 
difficult to predict Ms Hs life expectancy at this point in time. 
While it was clear at this point that Ms H had a terminal illness, it wasnt clear that her life 
expectancy would be less than 12 months. So, I think it was fair for Aviva to decline her 
claim in May 2020. 
Unfortunately, there was a delay in receiving information from Dr D after Ms H resubmitted 
her claim in November 2020, but Im satisfied Aviva was not responsible for this delay. It 
chased the information at regular intervals, and when the information was eventually 
received in September 2021 it sought to consider if the policy definition could have been met 
prior to May 2021, when the terminal illness benefit ceased.   
In September 2021, Dr D explained that Ms H had stable disease, but that shed be finishing 
her immunotherapy in October 2021 as shed completed the full treatment cycle allowed 
under the NHS. Dr D explained that Given she is now stopping active treatment, I would not 
be surprised if her life expectancy was less than 12 months. While this evidence would 
appear to be supportive, Dr D was commenting on Ms Hs health in September 2021, which was within the final 12 months of the policy. As such, this didnt demonstrate that she met 
the policy definition.
Dr D was later asked to comment on what Ms Hs life expectancy would have been had it 
been considered in November 2020, when she originally resubmitted her claim. Dr D said 
"Looking at her imaging reports in November 2020, a new nodule was identified on her chest 
CT. This gave cause for concern that she was no longer responding to the Pembrolizumab 
and if the question we were asked would we have been surprised that she would survive 
more than 12 months, the answer would be "yes". 
I appreciate that this again appears on the face of it to be supportive of Ms Hs claim. But its 
clear Dr D was commenting on a very specific moment in time - November 2020 when Ms H 
had recently had a worrying scan result. 
Although Ms H resubmitted her claim in November 2020, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Aviva to assess the claim based on the evidence available at that specific moment in time, 
without consideration of the most up-to-date evidence. By the time Aviva received Dr Ds 
report in September 2021, it was apparent that Ms H hadnt needed to stop treatment as 
initially feared. Dr D confirmed She has had a good response to treatment in that she has 
managed to complete the full two-year allocation of treatment with no significant side 
effects. 
Had Aviva received Dr Ds report in November 2020, which is unlikely given it would always 
have taken some time to request and receive medical information, I still wouldnt have 
expected Aviva to accept the claim on the strength of that report alone. Its apparent that 
Dr Ds prognosis was based on a recent scan that had given cause for concern. Had Aviva 
become aware of this, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for it to ask for a follow 
up to confirm if Ms H had indeed stopped responding to treatment. Once it was clear Ms H 
had continued to receive treatment Aviva could reasonably have declined the claim. 
Overall, while I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Ms H, I cant say Aviva 
has treated her unfairly. Theres no dispute that Ms H has received a terminal diagnosis. But 
the available evidence doesnt support that she met the very strict policy definition which 
required her to have a life expectancy of less than 12 months prior to May 2021. As such, 
Aviva is under no obligation to pay the claim and so I cant say it has acted unfairly by 
declining Ms Hs claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman