DRN-3445968
The complaint
Ms B complains that Skipton Building Society refused her application for a buy to let 
mortgage and wouldnt refund the fees she paid for a survey.
What happened
Ms B applied for a buy to let mortgage with Skipton. It considered the application and 
instructed a valuer to carry out a valuation. Based on the purchase price of the property, the 
overall cost of the valuation was around £2,000.
Skipton then reviewed the application and declined it. Ms B complained. She didnt think it 
was fair that the application had been refused and that Skipton wouldnt explain why. And 
she said that if it wasnt prepared to lend to her, it should return the valuation fee.
Skipton said that it had considered Ms Bs application in line with its lending criteria and 
regulatory requirements. It said that it had decided not to lend to Ms B and that it didnt need 
to give a detailed explanation of its decision. It was not willing to reconsider. Skipton said 
that the valuation fee was non-refundable.
Ms B complained. Our investigator didnt recommend upholding her complaint, so she asked 
for it to be considered by an ombudsman. She said that she understood that Skipton werent 
required to grant her application, but she had been led to believe there wouldnt be a 
problem and it wasnt fair to charge the valuation fee as the decline decision could have 
been made before it was charged. And in any case she had separately carried out her own 
survey, so a further valuation wasnt necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that no lender is ever required to grant any mortgage application, and 
theres no entitlement to be given a mortgage. All lenders will consider any application they 
receive, taking into account a number of factors  including the applicants circumstances, 
the nature of the property and the lenders own lending criteria and risk appetite. And in 
making a decision, a lender can take into account both what its told by the applicant and the 
results of its own enquiries. 
A lender should give fair consideration to any application. But its not required to give 
reasons for its decision, including where it decides to refuse the application.
In this particular case, Skipton considered the application Ms Bs broker submitted on her 
behalf  first in relation to one property, and then when that fell through in relation to a 
second property.
Skipton considered the information it had been given, and it also asked Ms B and her broker 
for some more evidence and information.
Meanwhile, it commissioned a valuer to value the property. Again, this is standard practice. 
A mortgage is secured against the property its used to buy. The lender is only willing to lend 
because the property is good security. And the lender recovers the cost of that from the 
borrower as part of the costs of the application.
In this case, Skipton offered a free valuation  but only one free valuation  per application. 
Ms B used this on the first property. So when she changed to a new property, this time she 
had to pay the valuation fee.
Its reasonable that Skipton wanted its own valuation, and wouldnt take into account the 
survey Ms B had had done. A mortgage valuation assesses the worth and condition of the 
property, but also whether it meets that particular lenders specific criteria for properties its 
willing to accept  which Ms Bs surveyor wouldnt have done. And because this is such an 
important part of the mortgage application process, its reasonable for the lender to want to 
use its own valuer with whom it has an existing relationship and has confidence in.
Im therefore satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Skipton to require its own valuation, 
and  in the case of the second property  to charge that to Ms B. 
After the valuation was carried out, Skipton continued to assess Ms Bs application. It then 
decided to decline it. As our investigator explained, the details of its underwriting processes 
and checks are confidential. And it didnt have to explain that to Ms B or her broker. But in 
summary it had some concerns about Ms Bs income  including its amount and that it was 
much less than a tenth of the amount she wanted to borrow  as well as around the deposit 
she would need and whether the rent would be enough to cover the mortgage. These are 
legitimate considerations.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, therefore, I dont think Skipton handled Ms Bs 
application unfairly  though Ive noted that she and her broker were surprised it was turned 
down and wanted a more detailed explanation, I dont think Skipton was required to give a 
more detailed explanation than it has done.
The valuation fee was non-refundable. A valuation is carried out alongside the underwriting 
process; that way, the overall application can be considered more quickly. I dont think 
Skipton had enough information to have made a decision before the valuation was carried 
out. It was reasonable to carry it out, reasonable to charge Ms B for the valuation, and 
reasonable to decline the application after the valuation based on its underwriting checks. As 
the valuation had been carried out by then, and the fee was non-refundable, I dont think I 
can fairly ask Skipton to refund it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman