DRN-4341768
The complaint
Mrs L complains that, when her policy with Vitality Corporate Services Limited (Vitality) 
renewed, she stopped receiving its partner reward vouchers. She says she received poor 
service when she tried to resolve the matter.
What happened
Mrs L has a whole of life policy with Vitality. As part of her policy, she received various 
partner rewards, including some TV tokens. After her policy renewed at the beginning of 
December 2021, she stopped receiving the tokens.
She says she had to contact Vitality several times and spent a long time on the phone before 
the matter was resolved. She says each time she contacted a member of staff, they didnt 
have the history of what had happened. This meant she had to keep repeating herself and 
that she was offered solutions that had already been tried and failed.
Vitality apologised. It said it was coincidental that Mrs L stopped receiving vouchers after her 
policy renewed. It had made changes to its member zone around the same time, and this 
had caused various errors, including the receipt of some rewards. It sent Mrs L the vouchers 
manually until both parties were satisfied the system error had been fixed. Vitality offered 
Mrs L £25 for the inconvenience shed been caused. Mrs L didnt think this fully reflected the 
time it took to resolve things. She also thought Vitality hadnt recognised or addressed the 
poor service she received and that she was bullied into closing her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Vitality 
had resolved the problem with receipt of the vouchers by 31 December 2021 and that £25 
fairly reflected the impact on Mrs L.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said, in summary, that £25 doesnt reflect her experience and that 
the investigator hasnt fully recognised Vitalitys persistent failings, the inappropriate conduct 
of its complaint handler, and the hours of her wasted time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator set out in some detail what happened, and Im not going to repeat that again 
here. And Im satisfied the problem with receipt of the vouchers was resolved. I will focus 
instead on the service Mrs L received when she asked Vitality to resolve the matter and 
when she complained, and whether the compensation thats been offered is fair and 
reasonable.
Mrs L says she had to contact Vitality repeatedly and she spent a long time trying to resolve 
the problem with the non-receipt of the TV vouchers. Ive listened to the phone calls and 
seen the emails and in addition Mrs L told us she had communication via social media. Its 
clear she had to contact Vitality on several occasions before matters were resolved and that 
she spent a long time on the phone whilst staff tried to help her. I think individual staff did 
their best to help Mrs L. In particular one member of staff arranged to email the vouchers to 
Mrs L until the problem was fully resolved, and she offered to check in each week with Mrs L 
to make sure shed received them. But staff acknowledged that Mrs L had to go through 
things multiple times.
Vitality seemed to recognise the poor service Mrs L had received, and the time shed had to 
spend before things were put right. She was asked if £25 was satisfactory to compensate 
her and she said she didnt think it fully reflected the time shed spent. But Vitality wouldnt 
engage further with her about its offer and told her to refer to this service. I think thats 
disappointing. Its clear Mrs L had had to contact Vitality several times, had to repeatedly 
provide the same information, and was left on hold on the phone for an extended period 
whilst Vitality tried to fix the problem. I dont think £25 fairly reflects the inconvenience she 
was caused for what should have been a simple issue. I find £75 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances.
Mrs L says she felt bullied into closing her complaint. Once it was clear the vouchers were 
being received, Vitality asked Mrs L if she was happy for the complaint to be closed. On the 
first occasion she said she wanted it kept open until the next weeks voucher was safely 
received. And on the second occasion she said the same but also said she didnt think the 
service issues had been addressed. On both occasions, I dont find there was any undue 
pressure put on Mrs L to close the complaint  Vitality agreed to keep the complaint open, 
and the service issues were then investigated. So I dont find Vitality did anything wrong 
here. 
Ive already said that I think Vitality could have continued to engage with Mrs L about its 
offer. But, as it decided it wasnt prepared to increase that offer, I find it followed the correct 
procedure in sending Mrs L a final response and giving her referral rights to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that Vitality Corporate Services Limited should pay Mrs L £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman