DRN-4088525
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC Bank Plc delayed his mortgage application and he lost out as a 
result.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I dont intend to set it out 
in detail. But Ive listed the key events below.
On 16 November 2021, Mr B received a mortgage offer from HSBC with an expiry date of 15 
May 2022.
Soon after the mortgage offer had been provided, HSBCs appointed solicitor (company A) 
questioned an existing charge showing on the title for the mortgaged property. It needed to 
chase Mr B a number of times before he engaged with it on this and towards the end of 
December 2021, Mr B confirmed he was disputing the charge. No update was provided to 
company A until February 2022 with no change in place at this point. Subsequent chasers 
were sent by company A without a change to the position. 
In April 2022, Mr B was told the mortgage offer could not be proceeded unless the additional 
charge was removed. In early May, Mr B enquired about extending the mortgage offer.
On 13 May 2022, Mr B confirmed the additional charge had been removed and he was 
ready to progress with the mortgage. The original offer expired on 15 May 2022 but Mr Bs 
broker spoke with HSBC and it agreed a 5-day extension.
On 16 May 2022, after the extension was agreed, company A said it couldnt progress with 
the mortgage and request the drawdown of funds without written confirmation from HSBC 
that the offer had been extended. HSBC insisted its written confirmation wasnt needed 
when ask for this by Mr B on 17 May 2022 and company A only needed to send the 
certificate of title and request the funds.
On 23 May 2022, company A continued to insist that it be provided with a written 
confirmation from HSBC on the extension. HSBC agreed to send this on 23 May but this 
confirmed the offer had expired again on 20 May 2022. As a result, Mr B needed to apply for 
a new mortgage offer at a higher rate than his previous one. The new application was made 
with an additional £22,192.27 borrowing.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought HSBC and company A had caused a 
delay that resulted in Mr B loosing out. She said to put things right, HSBC should 
retrospectively apply the rates of the original offer Mr B had  applying this to the amount of 
the original offer only  as Mr B hadnt applied for the additional borrowing at this point. She 
also said HSBC should pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience.
HSBC disagreed with the view. It said it was clear the application had been delayed for 
months because of the outstanding charge on the property and the actions of Mr B in 
attempting to have this removed. It thinks focusing on the actions of company A and itself for 
a number of days at the end of this period is unfair and but for Mr Bs delays, the mortgage 
would have completed.
Our investigator explained that the previous delays were not what resulted in the mortgage 
failing to complete. And in her opinion, although the window of time was shorter, it was the 
delays through the actions of company A and HSBC that resulted in Mr B being unable to 
complete the mortgage as he intended.
Because HSBC maintained its position, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome of our investigator in this case for broadly the same reasons and 
am upholding the complaint.
I accept that Mr B did add a significant delay to the process. But the offer had a six-month 
window for everything needed ahead of completion to be complete. And while it was 
arguably at the last possible point that Mr B could have completed everything that was 
needed, he did meet the deadline of the offer. 
When HSBC agreed to extend the offer by five days it meant there was a reasonable 
amount of time for company A to progress with the completion and send HSBC the 
certificate of title and request the funds. But it failed to do this and insisted on information 
that HSBC said itself wasnt needed. This resulted in the mortgage not completing.
So while I accept Mr B caused delays with his actions to remove the disputed additional 
charge on the title and in the absence of these, it is likely the mortgage would have 
completed. I also think, had HSBC and company A done what it should have when asked, 
the mortgage would have completed in time too. Ultimately it was this failure that has 
resulted in Mr B losing out and it is fair and reasonable that HSBC do something to put this 
right.
Putting things right
To put Mr B in the position he would have been in, HSBC should do the following:
- Adjust the interest rate on Mr Bs mortgage retrospectively to reflect what he would 
have got on the loan amount offered in his original mortgage offer.
- If there is any excess payments made by Mr B identified when this is completed, Mr 
B should be given the option to receive a refund of this with 8% simple interest added 
less tax deductible, or offer to reduce the mortgage balance by this amount.
- It should also pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience of the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman