DRN-1362372
The complaint
Mr C and Miss M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint concerns a PPI policy taken out in 1998 to protect a mortgage. HSBC has 
information which shows that the policy provided single cover for Mr C if he was unable to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
HSBC doesnt still have records which show when the mortgage the PPI policy protected 
was taken out. But its assumed that this was at the time the policy was sold. And it cant 
now say whether the mortgage was in the sole name of Mr C or a joint mortgage with 
another party. Mr C and Miss M say the policy was protecting their joint mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr C and Miss M disagreed with the
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Miss Ms case. I know this will be a 
disappointment to but, having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold for reasons that Ill 
now explain.
This sale took place well over twenty years ago. So its not that surprising that the
documentation likely to have been completed at the time isnt still available. Businesses 
arent required to keep these sorts of records for such lengthy periods. In these 
circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the 
very limited information available to me.
Mr C and Miss M say that the PPI was attached to their mortgage without their knowledge. 
Ive no doubt this is their honest recollection of what happened at the time. And I accept that 
its possible that the HSBC representative they spoke to did wrongly add the cover without 
first discussing it with them and obtaining their agreement to taking it. But I do need to bear 
in mind that memories of what is said in such meetings which took place so long ago do tend 
to fade with time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what 
happened, based solely on what Mr C and Miss M think they remember now.
This PPI policy was a separate product to Mr C and Miss Ms mortgage. So I think its likely 
that a separate application form and direct debit mandate would have been required for it. 
And following the sale I would have expected Mr C to have received a letter confirming that 
the policy had been set up and providing further documentation about the cover taken. I 
would also have expected the charge for the PPI to have been separately itemised. So I 
think Mr C would have been likely to have queried why he had been sent the letter and 
charged for the policy if he hadnt agreed to take out the cover.
On balance, and based on the very limited information now available to me, I think its more 
likely than not that the PPI was discussed with Mr C and Miss M and that they agreed to take 
it knowing they could choose not to do so. But I can understand why they might not recall 
this now.
HSBC says it doesnt know whether it recommended the PPI. Mr C and Miss M say this was 
an advised sale and Ive taken this to be the case because this means that HSBC needed to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for them. I cant now know the steps HSBC took to 
ensure that the policy was suitable. But from what I know about their circumstances at the 
time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr C appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. 
 
Mr C and Miss M say that they didnt need the policy. They say they had other means of 
making their mortgage repayments if Mr C wasnt able to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mr C says he was entitled to generous sick pay from his 
employer if he couldnt work. He also says that because he was employed in a family 
company at the time this meant he was less at risk of needing the cover the policy 
provided. But I dont think what Mr C has said means that the policy couldnt still have 
been of benefit to Mr C and Miss M. This policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs 
sick pay entitlement and I think it would have given Mr C and Miss M a greater level of 
security than relying on the fact that Mr C worked for a family company if things went 
wrong. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones home is potentially 
at risk if the loan repayments cant be met. So I still think that Mr C and Miss M would 
have valued the extra security which the policy gave them.
Ive no reason to think the policys cost of £20.58 was unaffordable for Mr C and Miss M. 
And the policy could have been cancelled if it no longer met their needs.
HSBC also needed to give Mr C and Miss M enough information for them to decide if they
wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information HSBC gave them could
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was
unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their minds
about taking it. I still think theyd have thought the policy gave them useful benefits at an 
affordable cost.
So I dont think that Mr C and Miss M have lost out by anything that HSBC may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman