DRN-3060866
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance, 
(MPPI), policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with Santander in 2001 during a meeting. At the same time 
monthly-premium MPPI was added to his account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. As Mr M 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. And Ive taken this into account in making my decision. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mr M says that he told Santander during the meeting that he didnt want to take out MPPI 
because of the employee benefits to which he was entitled. I dont doubt that this is what 
Mr M now recollects happened at the time of the sale. But he is trying to recall a 
conversation that took place some 20 years ago. And I dont find that its fair and reasonable 
to rely solely on his memory. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms signed mortgage application. This has a section in it dealing with 
MPPI. I can see that the box requesting the insurance has been ticked by hand. Mr M says 
that it wasnt him who filled in the box. He also says that, apart from his signature, the rest of 
the form was printed. And he suggests that the tick was made after the meeting. However, I 
can see that there are other handwritten items on the form, for instance, what appear to be a 
small change in the amount being borrowed and a reference number for Mr Ms solicitor. A 
further form, with personal details about Mr M and signed by him on the same date as the 
mortgage application, is also mainly printed but has handwritten additions and changes. 
With one exception, Im unable to determine when these various handwritten items were 
made. On balance, I think its fair and reasonable to assume that these written items, 
including the tick for MPPI, were most likely to have been made by Santanders 
representative during or after the meeting, following discussions with Mr M. And I have no 
reason to conclude that these werent in accordance with what was agreed during such 
discussions. 
Mr M is concerned that no copy of the signed application for the MPPI has been supplied 
by Santander. And, indeed, the exception to which Ive referred above, seems to be to the 
effect that there are no applications on the file for home insurance or MPPI. And this note 
seems to have been dated some two weeks after Mr M signed the form. The mortgage 
started several weeks after this date. So Im satisfied that, had Mr M not already signed 
applications for the insurance products he wanted at the time the note was made, there 
was time for this to be rectified before the mortgage funds were released to him. Although 
it would, of course, have been more satisfactory to have seen a copy of the MPPI 
application form signed by Mr M, Santander is not required to keep documents for this 
length of time. And, on balance, in the light of what Ive seen on Mr Ms application form, 
and in the absence of any more persuasive evidence, I dont think that I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Mr M didnt want MPPI at the time he took the mortgage.
I find that my above conclusion is reinforced because I have seen a copy of a letter 
Santander sent to Mr M some two months after he signed the mortgage application. This set 
out details of his MPPI. It was addressed to him at the address for correspondence shown 
on his mortgage application. Had Mr M not wanted the policy, he could have queried why it 
was in place on receipt of this letter.
The MPPI section of the mortgage application form, to which Ive referred above, had 
two boxes that could be ticked. One was to accept MPPI, and the other was to express 
an interest in such insurance and request further information about it. I find that this 
shows that Mr M had a choice whether to take out the policy. And, without any more 
persuasive evidence about what was said and happened during the meeting, I find that 
Santander made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take it.
Because the sale was so long ago, Santander hasnt been able to send us a copy of 
the actual terms and conditions that were in use at the time of the sale. But is has sent 
us a copy of the policy that applied a few months earlier. Without any other information 
to the contrary, and knowing what we do generally about these types of policies, Im 
satisfied that its reasonable to assume that the terms and conditions applicable to 
Mr M were likely to have been similar. On this basis, I find that Mr M would have been 
eligible for the cover.
Santander advised Mr M to take out the MPPI. This means that it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for his needs. I dont know what steps 
Santander actually took. But, from what I know about his circumstances at the time, I 
find that its likely that the policy was suitable for Mr M. I say this because:
Its likely that Mr M wasnt affected by any of the MPPI main restrictions and 
limitations, such as those affecting someone who was self-employed. The ability to 
successfully make a claim arising from a circumstance caused by a medical 
condition that started before the insurance commenced, may have been restricted. 
I understand that Mr M had a medical condition which was undiagnosed at the time 
of the sale. However, I find that the nature of this condition was such that it was 
unlikely to have restricted his right make a successful claim;Although Mr M has told us that he had no need for the policy, I think its likely that 
the it could have been of use to him. Ive concluded this because, following a 
successful claim for sickness or accident, its likely the MPPI would have paid out 
£500 a month for up to 12 months - which is a longer period than that for which his 
work benefit, to which he says he was entitled, would have paid him his full salary. 
And, again, following a successful claim, its likely the policy would also have paid 
out for up to 12 months had Mr M become involuntarily unemployed. These 
payments would almost certainly have been paid in addition to any employment 
benefits Mr M could have claimed, leaving those available to help him with his 
other expenses while he wasnt working;
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M couldnt afford the premiums, which 
initially were about £26 a month. And in any event, because it was paid for 
monthly, had Mr M later felt that the policy was unaffordable, or that he no longer 
wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
The policy was competitively priced by reference to other polices available in the 
market at the time and offered a reasonable benefit.
Its possible that Santander didnt give Mr M the clear, fair, and not-misleading 
information about the MPPI that it ought to have so that he could decide whether it met 
his requirements. But, from my conclusions above that, on balance, he seemed to 
have wanted this type of cover and that its likely it was suitable for him, I dont think 
that better details would have changed his mind and stopped him taking it. I say this 
particularly in view of the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr M been 
unable to make his mortgage repayments that were secured on his home.
So I dont find that Mr M has lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with 
Santanders sales process. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said, Ive thought about everything Mr M has told us. In particular he has said:
Santander told him that it didnt know what employment benefits he was entitled to. He 
says that this information was available on the world wide web. I dont agree with Mr M 
that Santander was required to search on-line for this information. I find that it was up to 
him to provide the detail of his employment terms if he wished Santander to consider it. 
In any event, Mr M has given us information about the terms of his employment, and I 
have taken this into account in making my decision;
The pre-existing medical condition, which he had, required Santander to treat him in a 
manner different from that which it had in fact done when considering his complaint 
about the MPPI sale. Ive concluded above that the condition didnt give rise to the policy 
being unsuitable for Mr M. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that, taking his medical 
history into account, Santander handled Mr Ms complaint in an unreasonable or unfair 
manner;
I wish to make it clear that, the dates for which Mr M had a mortgage with Santander, 
would not prevent an award in his favour being made had it been decided that he had 
been mis-sold the policy. These dates only affect whether he would be entitled to 
repayment of some of the premiums he had paid, (together with interest), whether or 
not there had been a mis-sale. Im satisfied that Mr Ms mortgage ended at a date 
earlier than that which might have given rise to such an entitlement.
So these and Mr Ms other comments do not change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman