DRN-1462571
 
The complaint
Mr N complains about what happened when he exchanged money through Revolut Ltd. He 
said an extra charge was added to the exchange rate, and the rate used didnt reflect the 
historical rate that Revoluts app now shows him.
What happened
Mr N exchanged some money through Revolut. He said the exchange rate shown in the app 
was 1 to 319.8318, but what he got was 1 to 323.8542, so he didnt get nearly as much 
currency as he shouldve. He said this cost him about €38. Mr N asked Revolut to correct its 
mistake on the exchange rate, but it refused. 
Mr N sent us screenshots of the historical exchange rate on the day of the transaction, and 
of the transaction itself. He wanted Revolut to refund what hed lost, and to make sure that a 
clear exchange rate showed before the transaction was done.
Revolut said that it didnt think there was a discrepancy between the historical rate and the 
rate it had used. It said that Mr N had exchanged money on the weekend, when it does 
apply a 1% mark up, because less currency is being traded then. 
When Mr N complained, Revolut told us that the historical exchange rate that Mr N can see 
in the app isnt the exact rate that was used. It uses an external partner to provide historical 
rates, rather than recording the rates it used at the time. 
But Revolut still didnt that it had made a mistake. It had used the market rate from close on 
Friday, and had applied the weekend uplift, because the transaction was before midnight on 
Sunday. It said that the closing rate was 320.75, and once the weekend uplift was applied, 
this gave roughly the rate used for Mr Ns transaction.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Revolut had shown him 
evidence that supported the rate it had used, including the historical rate for the Friday 
before the transaction, which is the one its terms say will apply over the weekend. And its 
terms provide for applying a percentage charge to any exchanges which are done over a 
weekend when the currency markets are closed. He thought the exchange rate Mr N got 
was in line with this information. 
Our investigator appreciated Mr Ns concern about the historical exchange rate tables not 
being entirely accurate, but he didnt think this had affected Mr Ns decision to make this 
transaction at the time. And he thought that the exchange rate was clearly shown for Mr N 
before he made the transaction. So he didnt think Revolut had to do anything. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said that Revolut didnt have any clear terms and conditions available 
on its website now, and it was worse six months ago. And he thought Revolut didnt apply 
any uplift on weekdays, so hed waited until after midnight on Sunday to make the exchange. The transaction was done first thing Monday morning, local time. But Mr N was outside of 
the UK, and he had forgotten that Revolut uses UK time. 
Mr N said it wasnt acceptable for Revolut to use a third party app to provide historical rates, 
when it didnt use those actual rates for its transactions. He also said advertisements 
claimed that Revolut was free with no hidden fees, which wasnt true. He thought Revolut 
should show a summary of the details and rates, fees for the transaction and then ask for 
approval before it executes a transaction. He said none of this was available at the time that 
he changed this money. Revolut just executed his transaction with an unknown rate. He 
wanted our investigator to reconsider.
Our investigator didnt change his mind, but he said an ombudsman could review this case if 
Mr N wanted. Mr N asked for that, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N says he wasnt told what exchange rate would be used before he made his transaction. 
Revolut has shown us screenshots of the page it uses for exchange transactions. It says this 
is designed so users can make their transactions quickly, so theres no box to tick to accept 
terms and conditions. But I note that the relevant exchange rate is shown prominently on the 
screen, before the customer accepts the transaction. So I do think Mr N was advised of the 
rate he would get. I dont think that Revolut had to display more than this as part of the 
transaction Mr N did.
Mr N also said that Revolut hasnt done enough to bring the terms of the account to his 
attention. But he also says that he knew that there was an extra charge on the weekends, so 
I think he was aware of the important term which affected this transaction. 
Mr N further complains that Revoluts advertising is misleading. But again, I think Mr N was 
aware that there was an extra charge for exchange transactions on a weekend, so I dont 
think he was misled in this case. 
Mr N says Revolut shows a historical rate which it never actually applied. I understand Mr 
Ns concerns that this should be accurate. But I dont think the historical rate that Revolut 
shows now affected Mr Ns decision to make the transaction he complains about now, so I 
dont think Im able to use this evidence to support Mr Ns current complaint. 
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont think that Revolut did anything wrong when it made this 
transaction for Mr N. So, although I know Mr N will be disappointed, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
 
 
 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman