DRN-4024526
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy with the service provided by Legal & General (Unit Trust 
Managers) Limited (L&G) when transferring their stocks and shares Individual Savings 
Account (ISA). 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M each held an ISA with L&G. Mrs M had provided her bank details to L&G so 
that income from both of their investments was paid directly into Mrs Ms bank account. 
In July 2021 L&G transferred its personal investment business (including Mr M and Mrs Ms 
ISA) to company F.
 
Following the transfer Mr M no longer received any dividend payments for his investments. 
Mr M complained to L&G saying it had transferred the wrong bank details to company F. 
L&G responded to Mr Ms complaint in July 2022 saying When we transferred your account 
on 30 July 2021, we gave [company F] your distribution instruction, which was to make 
payments by BACS to an account in the name of [Mrs M]. Whilst we allow payment of 
distributions to a third-party account, [company F] have told us they dont. Theyll only make 
payments to a bank account held in the investment account holders name. 
Mr M was unhappy with L&Gs response. Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. The investigator found L&G had acted reasonably 
and didnt ask it to do anything in settlement of Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint saying (amongst other things) L&G 
were responsible for ensuring the transfers were effected smoothly and without loss or 
prejudice to customers. They failed. At best they were negligent. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Mr M says L&G were responsible for ensuring the transfers were effected smoothly and 
without loss. Im satisfied that L&G provided company F with correct bank account details 
for Mrs M. Although the transfer to company F didnt go smoothly for Mr M, I havent seen 
any evidence to say that this was because of anything L&G did, or failed to do. 
Its not disputed that L&G provided bank account details for Mrs M when confirming the bank 
account information held for both Mr Ms and Mrs Ms investments. Mr M also accepts that 
when his investments were being managed by L&G, all dividend payments were paid to Mrs 
Ms account. I understand Mr M has had difficulties receiving dividend payments from 
company F but Im satisfied the service provided by L&G has been reasonable and in line 
with what wed expect. So I wont be asking L&G to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman