DRN-3469039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their personal
accident claim under their travel insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy that UKI
confirmed the claim would be settled.
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have travel insurance alongside their current account. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI. 
On 12 February 2018, Mr B had an accident while working. Mr and Mrs B were unable to go 
on their 2018 planned holiday abroad and it was cancelled. They submitted a claim to UKI 
for the cost of their cancelled holiday, which was accepted. It was paid and closed on 5 
March 2018.
In September 2020, Mr B called UKI about his claim from 2018. He said hes  wanted to now
claim for personal accident under the same travel policy. He said hed been to a tribunal
regarding the accident he had in 2018 and looking at his policy believed he could make a
claim for personal accident. He said hed been made permanently disabled as a result of the
accident.
UKI assessed the personal accident claim. On 20 October 2020, it informed Mr and Mrs B 
the claim was not covered under their travel insurance policy as Mr B was injured while at 
work and not on holiday or travelling at the time. UKI said there was no cover under their 
policy terms and conditions for this event. At the same time, in October 2020, Mrs B 
contacted UKI to inform it they had received an email from UKI which said it had agreed to 
settle the claim and it contradicted the communication about the claim being declined. UKI 
looked at what happened and confirmed this email had been sent in error and apologised to 
Mr and Mrs B. It said the email was sent off the back of the cancellation claim Mr and Mrs B 
had made in 2018 and should not have been sent. It offered £25 compensation for the upset 
it caused to Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B made a complaint to UKI. It reviewed the complaint but said the claim for
personal accident was declined. It said the accident happened while Mr B was at work and 
therefore, there was no cover under the terms and conditions of their policy.
Unhappy with UKI, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. At this point, they
said, in February 2018, theyd booked a short trip within the UK. They said their trip dates
were from 12 February 2018 to 14 February 2018. They explained on their way to their 
destination, they made a stop. As part of his business as a building consultant surveyor, 
Mr B stopped to survey a school roof, meet with the school representatives, take photos and 
submit a report for a grant application. Their intention was to continue the trip and get to their 
destination after the survey. However, Mr B unfortunately had a serious accident which then 
prevented them from taking their short trip. They say they had not mentioned this to UKI 
previously because the need hadnt arisen - there was free cancellation on the booking 
theyd made in February 2018 so they didnt feel the need to inform UKI previously.
Our investigator put this to UKI who said even though Mr and Mrs B had not mentioned the 
trip theyd booked when they made their complaint, there would still be no cover under their 
policy as the accident happened while Mr B was working.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and said even though Mr and Mrs B have provided
information of their trip booking in February 2018, there is no cover for their claim under the
policy because the accident happened while Mr B was working and there was no provision 
under the policy for this. She didnt think UKI had declined their claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. There was also some dispute about which policy document is relevant under 
this claim. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So,
its been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 April 2022 to both parties. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy wording
I understand there is some dispute about which policy document has been used by UKI and
our investigator for this claim. For the purposes of this provisional decision, I will refer to the
September 2017 document in this decision as this is the document that UKI has provided
as the relevant one to this claim. While I appreciate the comments from Mr and Mrs B about
the wording of the June 2016 policy document, I dont think this is relevant to this complaint
and I therefore wont comment further on the wording of that policy in this provisional
decision.
I do acknowledge Mr and Mrs Bs comments too that the only policy document they had was
the one dated June 2016. However, while I dont doubt that, Im afraid I have to go by the 
policy document thats relevant to this claim and just because Mr and Mrs B might not have 
had the relevant document or might not recall receiving it, that doesnt mean that the correct
one shouldnt be applied to their claim. I note that UKI has, since the complaint was made,
provided Mr and Mrs B a copy of the September 2017 policy document for their reference.
Should the claim be declined?
Ive started therefore by looking at the September 2017 policy document as it forms the
basis of Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance contract with UKI and is relevant to the event that
happened in February 2018.
Mr and Mrs B have said that on their way to their 2-day trip within the UK, Mr B stopped to
survey a school roof. Mr B was a surveyor. They say their intention was to then travel on totheir destination. Instead, while surveying the roof, he slipped on some black ice and had a 
serious accident which unfortunately led him to fall and become permanently disabled. At the 
time, in February 2018, Mr and Mrs B claimed for a holiday theyd booked abroad as it had 
to be cancelled. UKI accepted and settled the claim for the cancellation of the holiday in 
February
2018.
This claim relating to this complaint for personal accident wasnt made until
September/October 2020. This followed a tribunal that Mr B had been through. Mr and Mrs B
only contacted UKI during the end of tribunal process. UKI declined this claim and said as
Mr B was working while he had the accident, there was no cover under their travel policy.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. Section H of the policy document on
page 32 states:
H  Personal accident
You must let us know by calling 0800 051 0514 if you are taking part in any activity
which is not included within the included activities under Section 6, and is either the
main purpose of your journey, or you know there is a good chance you are going to
be taking part. We will then tell you whether cover is available for that activity and if
so, whether you will need to pay an additional premium.
What you are covered for
We will pay one of the items shown below, if during a journey, you sustain bodily
injury which shall solely and independently of any other cause, result within 24
months in your:
1. .
2. Loss of limb £25,000
3. .
4. .
What you are not covered for (exclusions)
In addition to anything in the General Exclusions, we will not pay any claim which
arises from or is in connection with:
1. .
2. .
3. .
4. Your participation in a hazardous activity, unless the hazardous activity 
upgrade has been purchased and the hazardous activity is listed in Section 6 
Included Activities and Hazardous Activities.
5. .
6. .
Under the definitions section of the policy on page 11, a journey is defined as:
A journey that begins and ends at your home address during the period of insurance
that:
Outside the UK; or
Within the UK where you have paid to stay in pre-booked commercially operated 
accommodation for two or more consecutive nights.
Theres no doubt, from the information available that a trip was booked by Mr and Mrs B for
two nights within the UK in February 2018. They provided evidence to show this. Theres 
also no dispute that Mr B suffered a serious fall which led to the loss of his legs.The dispute and the crux of this complaint, however, is that the personal accident happened
while Mr B was working. Under the terms and conditions of their travel policy, Mr and Mrs B 
need to evidence that the accident happened during their journey (in other words, while they 
were travelling to their destination) and if an activity was to take place during this journey, 
this would have had to be pre-approved by UKI. 
But theres also a further condition which says the activity would have to be listed in Section 
6. I cant see that carrying out work such as surveying a roof is listed as an activity that could 
be included under the policy. And, even if the activity was allowed (which it isnt), Mr and Mrs 
B have never contacted UKI to let it know that Mr B would be surveying a roof while 
travelling to their destination. Additionally, the activity (i.e. surveying a roof) wasnt the main 
purpose of the journey.
Insurance isnt designed to cover eventuality and while I appreciate what happened was very
unfortunate for Mr B, Im not persuaded UKI should be responsible for paying the claim. A
travel policy is designed to cover eventualities that happen during a journey, for those
activities listed under the policy and for which pre-approval has been sought from the
insurer. I cant see that Mr and Mrs B informed UKI that during the journey, Mr B would stop
to survey a roof as part of his work as a business consultant. And, even if Mr B had informed 
UKI at the time, its very likely, UKI would have said there would be no cover provided for 
this. 
I can see that when the claim was first made in February 2018, Mrs B provided an
explanation to UKI as to what happened on 12 February 2018 when Mr B slipped on black 
ice which led to a fall. UKI has provided notes from the time and Mrs B explained that Mr B 
had an accident on Monday 12 February while at work surveying a roof at a school. 
Theres no mention at all that Mr and Mrs B were on their way to a trip theyd booked. From 
what Mrs B had said, it seems Mr B was at work while he sustained the injury. In addition to 
what Ive said above, theres no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs B were on their way to a 
short trip theyd booked. While I dont doubt the trip was booked, the point is that Mr B was 
working when he fell and theres no cover for this eventuality. Im therefore minded to think 
the claim is not covered under the policy terms and conditions.
While I appreciate and can see that there is cover for personal accident under the policy, this
is for certain events specified under the specific sections of the policy. But the evidence
suggests Mr B was working and he fell during the survey he was carrying out. This event or
activity isnt covered under the travel policy terms and conditions they have with UKI.
Based on all the available evidence, Im currently satisfied that UKI has declined the claim
fairly and reasonably. I understand Mr and Mrs B have gone through a difficult period in the
last couple of years and that its been a challenging time for them. But taking everything into
account, I cant fairly ask UKI to take responsibility for the accident as ultimately, Mr B was
working when it happened and theres no cover on the policy for an accident that happened
while working. Im therefore not intending to ask UKI to do anything further.
UKI responded and said it had no further comments. 
Mr and Mrs B responded and, in summary, said the following:
The use of the word work can be misconstrued and should not be used. It should be 
replaced with on business which is more appropriate.
Theres been no explanation from UKI as to why the claim was re-opened by UKI 
staff in April 2022.They feel unsupported and the approach taken by the service feels unfair  
particularly as they are disabled and of pension age.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Id like to firstly address the comments Mr and Mrs B have provided in response to my 
provisional decision:
The use of the word work as opposed to on business. I understand why Mr and 
Mrs B would like me to change the wording. They feel this is more appropriate to 
their circumstances. But whichever wording I use, I would like to point out that Mr B 
was surveying a roof on 12 February 2018. So, whether, he was on business or 
working, I dont think the wording I use would make a difference to the overall 
outcome.
UKI has confirmed the claim has not been re-opened. There was some 
communication between Mr B and UKI in April 2022, but this was regarding a Subject 
Access Request and a question Mr B has raised with the claims handling team. UKI 
has checked again and confirmed it has not re-opened the claim.
Mr and Mrs B feel the approach we have taken is unfair, in particular because of their 
age and disability. I understand why they might feel this way and have every 
sympathy for Mr and Mrs B. The accident Mr B suffered must have been challenging 
and Im sure proved to be very difficult for them. But my role is to look at what 
happened in the circumstances of this complaint and the evidence I have available. 
Our role is to look at the complaint and the evidence independently and impartially 
and not take sides. This is what Ive done on this complaint. 
Overall, Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and the comments provided in response 
to my provisional decision. 
The policy document thats relevant to this claim is the one dated September 2017. I 
understand Mr and Mrs B believe the June 2016 policy document is the one we should be 
taking into account because they were not sent any other by UKI. As I said in my provisional 
decision, just because they might not have received or might not recall receiving the 
September 2017 one, that doesnt mean it shouldnt apply on this claim. 
And, having considered the September 2017 policy document, Mr and Mrs B have no cover 
for personal accident on their policy. Ultimately, Mr B was working or on business at the time 
he sustained the injury and there is no cover for such an event under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded UKI has declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman