DRN-3099011
The complaint
Ms O complains that a car acquired with finance from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019 Ms O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. At the point of supply the car was around 5 months old and had covered around 
5000 miles.
In July 2019 Ms O experienced issues with the brakes. The car was returned to the 
dealership for inspection and the brake discs and pads were changed.
Ms O continued to experience issues with the brakes. Further repairs were carried out in 
September 2019 and October 2020.
Ms O complained to MBFS and said the problem was continuing. She said she was unhappy 
with the noise the brakes were making and that she didnt feel safe driving the car. In 
response, MBFS said there was no evidence that the car had a fault, or that it was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ms O wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the car had a fault.
Ms O didnt agree. She said she was still experiencing noisy brakes and had tried to contact 
the dealership, but it hadnt replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Ms O and MBFS disagree about whether theres a fault with the car. Ms O has said that the 
brakes have been noisy since she got the car, despite several attempts at repair. MBFS has 
said that theres no evidence of a current fault.
Ive taken into account what Ms O has said about the noisy brakes. I can see that the brake 
pads and discs have been replaced three times since Ms O acquired the car in February 
2019. Since getting the car, Ms O has covered over 40,000 miles. So, its fair to say that, 
because brakes are a serviceable item, its reasonable to expect that brake pads and discs 
will need to be replaced. The fact that brakes pads and discs have been replaced doesnt 
mean that there a fault with the car.
I can see that the brake pads were replaced in October 2020. At this time, the recorded 
mileage was 29,397. Since then, Ms O has covered around a further 20,000 miles. Given the 
time and mileage elapsed, with no evidence to suggest that there was an ongoing fault, I 
think its unlikely that there is a fault or that the repair carried out in October 2020 was 
unsuccessful.
Ive looked at the most recent MOT for the car, which was carried out in October 2021. The 
mileage at the time was around 45,000. The car failed its MOT due to the condition of the 
tyres. The brakes arent noted in the MOT as having any issues. If there was a fault with the 
brakes, I wouldve expected this to have been found at the time of the MOT. 
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to safely conclude that theres 
a fault with the car, or that the car is of unsatisfactory quality. Because of this, I wont be 
asking MBFS to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman