DRN-2961192
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled his claim on 
his appliance protection policy.
What happened
Mr S had an insurance policy with D&G to cover his dishwasher. Towards the end of 2020 
he made a claim as he had noticed a number of faults with the appliance. D&G arranged for 
an engineer to attend and inspect the dishwasher. However the appointment was cancelled 
twice and there was a three month wait until they were able to attend.
Mr S made a complaint about this and in response D&G offered to provide a replacement 
dishwasher instead. It also offered Mr S £100 compensation to make up for the delays he 
had experienced.
D&G sent Mr S a link so he could choose a suitable replacement. Mr S selected one and this 
was delivered in February 2021. In March that year he complained to D&G again. He said 
the dishwasher was unsuitable as he had previously had an integrated dishwasher and this 
one was free standing. 
D&G didnt uphold his complaint. It said it provides a link for its customers to select a 
suitable replacement, so its their responsibility to ensure they select the right type for their 
needs. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she understood Mr S 
had experienced unnecessary delays but thought D&G had done enough to make up for 
these. And she thought the onus was on Mr S to select the correct type of dishwasher from 
the selection provided in the link. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, its the role of this service to decide if the business has got 
anything wrong. And where we find it has, decide what it should do to put things right. Here, 
Mr S has complained that D&G caused unnecessary delays when he reported a problem 
with his dishwasher. And that when he got a replacement it wasnt suitable. I have 
considered each of these in turn. 
Delays
Mr S originally made the claim in November 2020. However a visit from an engineer wasnt 
arranged until January 2021. And this was later cancelled. So by the end of January the 
claim hadnt progressed any further  three months after it was raised. I can see this would 
have been distressing and inconvenient for Mr S, as he was having to continue using a faulty 
dishwasher.
D&G has explained that the delays were due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions 
in place at the time. It says the fix required two engineers to attend, which made it more 
difficult to arrange during the restrictions. 
While I understand the restrictions would have made things harder, I dont think it was 
reasonable that Mr S should wait three months for the machine to be inspected. The 
appointment was arranged in January 2021 when restrictions were still in place, so an 
appointment was possible during that time. Therefore I think this appointment could have 
been arranged for earlier. 
D&G has accepted it caused some unnecessary delays and should have attended earlier. 
Its offered Mr S £100 compensation and it agreed to replace the dishwasher, so he wouldnt 
have to continue to wait for a repair. I can see a replacement wouldnt usually be offered 
under the policy in these circumstances. I think this is enough to make up for the distress 
caused. So I wont ask D&G to do anything further in this regard.
Replacement
Mr S also complains that the replacement provided isnt suitable. 
When looking at this complaint I can only consider D&Gs actions and what it got wrong. 
Here it provided Mr S with a suitable way of selecting and ordering a new appliance. It gave 
him a link to a website with a number of different options he could choose from. As Mr S 
would be most familiar with his requirements, I think this was reasonable so he could pick 
the best match. 
However as Mr S selected the replacement himself, the onus is on him to ensure it meets his 
requirements. And as D&G werent involved in the selection of a new appliance, I cant say it 
is at fault for Mr S receiving a replacement that didnt meet his needs. So I wont ask it to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman