The complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
He said that he had other payday loans at the time and didnt have a large source of income.
What happened
This complaint is about three short term loans Sunny provided to Mr M between 
June 2018 and August 2019. All the loans were repayable by six monthly instalments, but
Mr M repaid the loans earlier than planned. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows. 
Loan No: Date Taken Date Repaid No: of Monthly Instalments Loan Amount
1 23/06/2018 31/07/2018 6 £100.00
2 06/08/2019 08/10/2019 6 £600.00
3 25/08/2019 08/10/2019 6 £200.00
In its final response letter, Sunny said that it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators view. He said that Loan 1 was lent responsibly.      
But Loans 2 and 3 were granted in the same month and Loan 3 was granted before Loan 2 
was paid back, and this was irresponsible lending. Mr M also said that his credit score was 
extremely low at the time and he already had three other payday loans, two long term loans, 
a credit card and a large overdraft. He queried how his loans were lent responsibly in these 
circumstances. 
The adjudicator responded to say that he was aware that Loans 2 and 3 were overlapping 
and had taken this into consideration when reaching his view. 
Mr M disagreed. He said that he would have hoped that by his third payday loan with Sunny, 
the lender would be well equipped to understand his finances. He also said that it was 
irresponsible lending for Sunny to have allowed two loans in quick succession.
What Ive decided  and why
DRN-1789306Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
To start with, it seems that Mr M has accepted our adjudicators findings about Loan 1. So I 
think this means I no longer need to make a decision about that loan. But I have kept this 
loan in mind when considering Loans 2 and 3.
When Sunny lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint about Loans 2 and 3.
Sunny did a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr Ms declared income before Loans 2 and 3 was £2,100. Mr Ms 
declared expenditure before Loans 2 and 3 was between £937 and £980. Sunny also said that it had checked Mr Ms credit file before agreeing to the loans. It hasnt 
provided us with the detailed results of its credit checks. But it did note in its Loan Datasheet 
that Mr M wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt 
management plan at the time he took out the loans. 
I cant see that weve received a credit report from Mr M. So I cant say whether there was 
any adverse information on the report which I think should have caused additional concerns 
to Sunny. 
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit check, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a borrowers credit report will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by Sunnys credit checks and Mr Ms actual 
situation. 
As mentioned above, each of Mr Ms loans was repayable by six monthly instalments. So the 
amounts that Mr M needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal 
payday loan. But he was also committing to making those repayments over a far longer 
period. In addition when Mr M took out Loan 3, he had another loan with Sunny outstanding 
at the same time. So Ive considered the total amount that Mr M needed to repay to Sunny 
each month. 
Mr M took out Loan 2 around a year after repaying Loan 1. Given the length of time between 
Mr Ms previous loan closing and his applying for Loan 2, I think its fair that Sunny again 
treated Mr M as a new customer.
The monthly repayment on Loan 2 was around £193. I think that the checks Sunny did 
before agreeing Loan 2 were proportionate. Sunny had asked Mr M for his monthly income 
and expenditure. In the absence of anything to suggest that the information hed provided 
was likely to be unreliable, I think that Sunny was entitled to rely on it. Loan 2 was Mr Ms 
first loan after the break following Loan 1 and the amounts that Mr M needed to repay were 
relatively moderate compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
So given Mr Ms repayment amounts and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show Loan 2 was unsustainable. So I dont think Sunny 
was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr M.
Mr M took out Loan 3 19 days after taking out Loan 2. Loan 2 was still outstanding. The total 
monthly payment for Loans 2 and 3 had increased to £259.  I think the increased total 
borrowing and higher monthly repayments shortly after taking out Loan 2 should have 
caused some concerns to Sunny. But on balance, I dont think those concerns should have 
reached the point where further more detailed checks were proportionate. The amounts that 
Mr M needed to repay were still relatively moderate compared with the disposable income 
hed declared. So given Mr Ms repayment amounts and what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show Loan 3 was unsustainable. So I 
dont think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mr M.
I note that Mr M said that Sunny had lent irresponsibly by allowing him to take out two loans 
at the same time. But I dont agree. Looking at the specific circumstances of this complaint it 
seems to me that it was too early in the relationship for Sunny to make that judgement. Its lending practices did allow consumers to take up to four loans at any time. And it seems that 
Mr M would have been aware of that. 
I appreciate that Mr M said his finances were under pressure at the time he took out    Loans 
2 and 3. I note from Mr Ms bank statements that Mr M had taken out three short term loans 
in the ten days before Loan 3. But for the reasons given above, Sunny may not have been 
aware of these from its credit checks when Mr M applied for Loan 3. And unless Mr M had 
disclosed his other payday loans when hed asked for Loan 3, I cant safely say that Sunny 
would have found out about them with the proportionate checks it carried out that I think 
were reasonable.
So, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing to Mr 
M. Im also sorry to hear his health has been affected by his financial situation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman