DRN-2407428
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lost about $10,000 that he was attempting to 
transfer to an account in Switzerland.
What happened
Mr A says he decided to take advantage of an investment opportunity and sent an initial 
payment of $10,000 to an account in Switzerland in March 2020. He says the money didnt 
arrive and he spent some time over the next month asking HSBC where his money was but 
was told it was in the United States of America (USA). Mr A says he was planning on 
investing a far large amount and would like HSBC to pay for that lost investment.
HSBC says, as the payment was in US Dollars, that it is a regulatory requirement that the 
payment is made via the USA. It says it made several requests for the money to be returned 
by the intermediary bank and the money was sent back on 13 April 2020 but not credited to 
Mr As account until 27 April 2020. HSBC has apologised for that and for incorrect 
information given to Mr A. Its paid compensation of £200 and refunded the charge of £81 
and also paid interest at 8% ,on the balance, of £76.50.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator thought HSBC had followed regulatory rules by sending the money via the 
USA and thought it unclear if Mr A had missed the investment opportunity in any event. The 
investigator thought the compensation fair and reasonable and didnt think it fair to order 
HSBC to pay for the lost investment.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says HSBCs actions were unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that HSBC didnt make a mistake by sending Mr As money via the USA as its a 
regulatory requirement. But I accept that HSBC did take too long to repay the money into Mr 
As account as I can see it received the money on 14 April 2020 but didnt credit Mr As 
account until 27 April 2020. And I also accept that HSBC gave Mr A incorrect information. 
Im sure in those circumstances Mr A would have been concerned about where his money 
was.
I can see that HSBC has apologised for what took place and has explained to Mr A what 
happened. Im satisfied that its paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation 
amount of £200 and also fairly refunded the charge of £81. I think that award fairly reflects 
what took place and for the length of time Mr A was without his money. I make clear that I 
cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the delay prior to 13 April 2020 and I cant hold it 
responsible for the intermediary banks delay.
Im also satisfied that HSBC has fairly paid 8% interest on the money.
The key issue is if HSBC should pay for the lost investment opportunity. I have looked at the 
information Mr A has provided, and I dont think it clear if that investment opportunity was still 
available when he sent the money in any event and I think Mr A could have still invested the 
larger investment amount if he wished regardless of the whereabouts of the $10,000. I 
appreciate Mr A would have been concerned about sending a large amount following what 
had happened, but I also think it was his choice not to proceed.
Overall, Im satisfied I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for any investment loss and find the 
information Mr A has provided is not clear about if the original investment he had discussed 
in February 2020 was even available. I can see that Mr A says he will issue court 
proceedings and so Im satisfied this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this 
complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman