DRN-2697433
The complaint
Miss G complains about errors made by Nationwide Building Society with her mortgage 
application. She asks for compensation.
What happened
Miss G had a mortgage with another lender. Her product was due to expire at the end of 
February 2020 and she decided to apply to re-mortgage with Nationwide. Miss G says 
Nationwides mortgage adviser miscalculated the amount shed need to borrow to repay her 
existing mortgage. There was a £700 shortfall, which Miss G was unable to fund herself. 
Miss G had to re-apply for a larger loan, which was stressful and delayed her re-mortgage. 
Miss G says the mortgage adviser was rude when she contacted her about the error. Miss G 
is also unhappy about the way Nationwide dealt with her complaint.
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to fairly conclude that Nationwide made 
an error. Miss G didnt agree, saying Nationwide calculated the loan amount and didnt warn 
her theyd be a shortfall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G met with Nationwides mortgage consultant in November 2019. The parties dispute 
what happened at the meeting. In particular, they dispute whether it was the mortgage 
consultant or Miss G that calculated the amount shed need to borrow to repay her current 
lender. They also dispute whether the mortgage consultant warned Miss G there could be a 
surplus or a shortfall.
The meeting wasnt recorded. In deciding what most likely happened, I have to take into 
account the evidence that is available. This includes the notes and recollections of the 
mortgage consultant, emails between Miss G and the mortgage consultant, records related 
to the application and Miss Gs own recollections of the discussion.
The discussion between Miss G and the mortgage consultant happened in November 2019. 
It was intended that the re-mortgage would happen in early March 2020. Whoever calculated 
the amount needed to repay Miss Gs current mortgage could only make an estimate. 
Nationwide says its usual approach is either to use the current balance and ask the solicitors 
to return the surplus, or use a lower amount and warn the customer there could be a 
shortfall. It says its mortgage consultants arent able to calculate the redemption amount for 
loans from other lenders on their computers, as Miss G says happened.
The mortgage consultants recommendation notes from the meeting in November 2019 say 
the mortgage amount is provided by the customer which will be outstanding at the end of 
Feb 2020, customer is aware this could vary and she may have to top up the difference if 
needed.
Only Miss Gs current lender would have been able to give an exact redemption amount. I 
think its unlikely the mortgage consultant would have told Miss G that the balance calculated 
to be outstanding in March 2020 (whoever did the calculation) was an exact figure. I think its 
more likely shed have said this was an estimate and the actual amount could be more or 
less. Her notes from the meeting, and her response to Miss Gs emails in early March 
support this.
Ive also taken into account what Miss G said in her email when she raised concerns on 
1 March 2020 about the amount she needed to repay. She set out her calculation  the 
balance in October 2019 less the five monthly payments shed made since then  as the 
amount she owed. Miss G said the solicitor must have asked for the redemption statement 
incorrectly.
Taking the available evidence into account, on balance, I think its unlikely that Nationwide 
misled Miss G about the amount shed need to repay her mortgage with a different lender. 
Theres no recording of the call between the mortgage consultant and Miss G in early March 
2020. Miss G says the mortgage consultant was defensive and rude. Miss G says she was 
especially upset by the mortgage consultants remark that Miss G didnt have to accept the 
offer. It might be that the consultant was trying to set out what Miss Gs options were at that 
point. I have no doubt that Miss G was stressed and worried at this point, and that she found 
this call upsetting. I havent seen evidence though that the mortgage consultant was rude, or 
intended to upset Miss G. 
Completion was scheduled for 2 March 2020. Miss G contacted Nationwide when she 
became aware of the problem on 1 March 2020 (which was a Sunday). Nationwide told 
Miss G it would sort out the problem, and arranged for a different mortgage consultant to 
deal with the matter. It issued a new mortgage offer for the higher amount on 4 March 2020 
and the mortgage completed on 5 March 2020.
Overall, based on the available evidence, I dont think its likely that Nationwide made an 
error. And when the problem came to light I think it acted promptly to sort it out. It follows 
that I wont be upholding this complaint.
Miss G has said shes unhappy with the way Nationwide dealt with her complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, and so I cant look into Miss Gs concerns here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman