DRN-3715356
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds 
refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its Wedding Professions business 
insurance policy. 
Ms C, as the director of E, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr K has also 
represented Ms C and E in this complaint. For ease I will refer to all communications as 
being from E. 
What happened
E provides event planning services and equipment for hire for weddings and other social 
events. E held a policy with Hiscox from June 2019 to June 2020 and another from 
September 2020 to September 2021. In September 2020, E contacted Hiscox to make a 
claim for business interruption. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case 
in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording 
as Es policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox considered Es claim, following that judgment, and refused the claim. Hiscox says the 
policy provides cover for losses arising as a result of E not being able to use its premises 
following closure by a public authority. Hiscox said that E was not one of the types of 
business that was required to close as part of the Governments March 2020 restrictions and 
had been permitted to continue to operate. 
E is very unhappy about this and the time take by Hiscox to deal with the matter. 
Hiscox says it dealt with the claim within a reasonable time, given the issues involved and 
the test case.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter, He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claim. The Investigator said 
that whilst E may have suffered some disruption to the normal service it was able to provide, 
and a loss of income, it was not a type of business that had been required to close by the 
Government. So, it had not been caused an inability to use its premises, as required by the 
policy.
E does not accept the Investigators assessment. E has made a number of submissions in 
the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered everything E has 
said but have summarised the main points below:  
The refusal of its claim is in breach of FCA guidance and its expectation that insurers 
assess and settle claims quickly, including making interim payments; and is contrary 
to the Supreme Court ruling.  
In March 2020, the Government said people should only leave their properties for 
one of four exceptional reasons and ordered the closure of non-essential shops and 
public spaces. Not all businesses required to close were listed by the Government in 
the regulation and common sense should be used. As E was not providing an 
essential service and its employees were not key workers, they had to stay at home 
and not attend businesses premises or work there. E was therefore mandated to 
close; it was not able to open its business premises to the public and could not meet 
with customers or suppliers. 
The policy does not state that in order to claim, it has to be on the list of businesses 
required to close. 
Es local authority stated that E couldnt work from its premises during the lockdown.
On 27 March 2020 the police  who are a public authority  attended Es business 
premises as there were reports that it was still trading. Representatives of E had to 
attend the premises to prove that it wasnt being used for work. This must be 
sufficient evidence that E was unable to use its work premises. 
The Supreme Court held that the Governments public announcements to stay at 
home would be sufficient to trigger this policy cover and didnt rule that the business 
must be on the list of businesses ordered to close:
A relevant restriction imposed could also mean a restriction imposed on the potential 
customers of the insured business and not just the policyholder and/or its use of the 
insured premises. Customers couldnt come to its premises, which obviously stopped 
it from selling its products and services.
Hiscoxs communications have been vague and generic, providing no actions with 
associated timelines. The delay in dealing with the claim and failure to make any 
interim payments has caused additional financial challenges for E. It seeks 
compensation for this in addition to the claim settlement. 
E asks for a full breakdown on how it has been treated. Hiscox even terminated calls 
when the impact of this matter was discussed. This needs to be looked into and 
explained in depth. 
The Investigator is biased in favour of the insurer and failed to consider the individual 
circumstances of the case. 
Hiscox has since changed the wording of the policy to specifically exclude diseases 
such as Covid-19, which indicates it was covered under the previous policy. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its evident from Es submissions that the restrictions imposed by the Government have had 
a significant financial impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Es entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the most relevant part of that section of cover 
below:
Public Authority This provides cover for losses caused by: 
your inability to use the office due to restrictions imposed by a public authority during 
the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority  
Office is defined in the policy as being the office space occupied at the premises shown in 
the schedule. The schedule lists two addresses, one of which appears to be a residential 
address and one a unit on an industrial estate.
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Es was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. The Supreme Courts judgment said:  
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. Para 129 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use.
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is an infectious disease, the outbreak of which must be notified to the local 
authority. 
I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the vicinity of the 
premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically targeted the 
claimant business alone. As such, this extension would provide cover to a business that had 
been caused an inability to use their insured premises. So the question is whether or not E 
suffered an inability to use its premises. 
I agree with E to an extent that it is not just the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) 
(England) Regulations 2020 that are relevant to considering this question. However, these 
regulations were important in setting out which businesses were required to close. They 
included a list of the businesses that had to close and events management and hire firms 
such as E were not on this list. 
E says it was a non-essential service and so it had to close. Non-essential shops were 
required to close but not all businesses. I am not aware of any such instruction, other than 
those contained in the regulations mentioned above, that imposed a relevant restriction on E 
directly. And I note in its initial claim, E said the business interruption suffered was due to the 
restrictions placed on weddings and other social gatherings and did not refer to any 
restriction of use of its premises, or that it was required to close its business operation. The 
business was not shut down. People were allowed to leave home to attend work, if they 
were unable to work from home. E might have had to adjust how its premises were used, to 
comply with social distancing, but the fact remains it was able to use the premises (even if 
not as it would usually).  
The court did also make it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As E had referred to a showroom, Hiscox asked E for any evidence that it sold or hired 
products as a result of in-person sales at the insured premises and said it would consider a 
claim for loss of revenue as a result of having to close a showroom further. As far as I am 
aware no further evidence about this was provided and Hiscox said the premises address at 
the industrial estate appeared to be a storage unit and not showroom. Given this, I dont 
consider E has shown it was unable to use its premises for a discrete part of the business
E has said it had visits from the police and its local authority to ensure it was not using the 
business premises and says this must be sufficient evidence that it was required to close. 
While I have no reason to doubt what E has said about this, the evidence is that it was not 
mandated to close and was not unable to use its premises and Ive seen no convincing or 
independent evidence that the business couldnt operate. 
E also says the restrictions imposed could be on customers and not just on E. I agree that 
the regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an impact 
on businesses that were able to remain open. As E said for example, the restrictions on 
gatherings such as weddings, and other social events, and restrictions on movement that 
required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse, would have all meant that 
the demand for Es services and products fell. But the policy still requires that this results in 
an inability to use the premises. And while this will have affected how they were used, this 
did not result in an inability to use the premises, as required by the policy. 
So, whilst I do not doubt E suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its business, the 
policy requires that there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not consider E suffered 
such an inability to use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately 
in declining Es claim under this section. 
Although E might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood 
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Es policy provides cover 
for its claim. 
Changes to new policy terms
E has also said Hiscox has changed the policy wording to make it clear it would not cover 
diseases like Covid-19. Whatever changes Hiscox might have made to subsequent policy 
documents, I dont think that means the original wording was unclear. In my opinion, the 
policy term relied on by Hiscox, and set out above, is sufficiently clear and is not inherently 
unfair.
Time taken to deal with the claim and other issues of customer service
The claim was made in September 2020. The Supreme Court issued its decision on the 
case in January 2021 and Hiscox issued its decision on the claim in May 2021. Hiscox was 
in communication with E between these times, albeit not as often as E wanted. 
E is also unhappy that the communications received were generic and says they showed no 
understanding of its individual circumstances. From looking at Hiscoxs file, it was providing 
information to E that applied to many customers including E. I do not consider it was 
unreasonable therefore that these were sometimes mass generated communications. They 
were not inappropriate to Es circumstances or its claim.  I am satisfied it considered the 
circumstances of Es claim appropriately.
Mr K is also unhappy about the way he was spoken to during some calls with Hiscox. I can 
only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a 
financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a 
limited company, rather than any individual. In addition, Mr K is not listed as a director of E. A limited company cannot suffer distress or frustration. So, I cannot consider the impact on 
Mr K personally of the way any calls were handled.   
Hiscox says it dealt with the claim within a reasonable time. It had agreed to take part in the 
test case and the relevant wording in Es policy was the same as one of the policy wordings 
that was considered by the court.  Hiscox therefore wanted to wait until that was concluded 
before giving a final answer on the claim. I can understand that any delay in the claim would 
have caused concern but, as mentioned I cannot make an award of compensation for 
distress or frustration suffered by a business. And as the claim is not covered, Hiscox was 
not required to make any interim payment.  
I appreciate this is a matter Mr K feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on E. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman