DRN-3595895
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt allow him to port his existing buy to let 
mortgage to a new property, but said he could borrow much more if he took out a new 
mortgage. Mr M said Santander just wanted him to pay the early repayment charge.
What happened
Mr M said he was selling a buy to let (BTL) property mortgaged by Santander. The 
mortgage had a large early repayment charge (ERC) of £14,500 payable if Mr M redeemed 
it in within the first five years. Mr M was only one year into his mortgage, but said he needed 
to sell to buy a different property, with a larger mortgage.
Mr M said what he wanted to do, was to port his existing Santander mortgage to the new 
property and top this up with new lending. That way he wouldnt have to pay the ERC. But 
Mr M said Santander wouldnt port his mortgage. Mr M said Santander had been happy to 
offer new lending of far more than the lending he wanted to move, even though it wouldnt 
port the existing amount. Mr M thought Santander only said this so it could charge the ERC. 
Mr M said hed had to take out new lending instead. He said that new mortgage had now 
gone through, because the seller needed to complete on the new property he was buying. 
So he could no longer port his existing mortgage. But Mr M said his new mortgage was also 
with Santander, so the only person to lose out here was him. Mr M felt strongly that 
Santander should waive the ERC on his old mortgage when the sale of the first property 
went through.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr M applied via a broker, and the 
broker never actually asked to port Mr Ms existing mortgage, instead the broker had applied 
for a new mortgage. 
Santander said Mr M would not have been able to port his mortgage, because at the time 
when he took out his new lending, in December 2021, he hadnt sold the previous property 
and the mortgage was still secured on it. The old mortgage wasnt redeemed until 1 
February 2022.
Santander said Mr M had made an informed decision to redeem his old mortgage, which 
was on a fixed rate of 2.04%, and take out new lending to cover his purchase, at a lower 
fixed rate of 1.79%. 
But Santander said it was right to say that Mr M couldnt have ported his existing mortgage. 
It said BTL customers are subject to its full lending policy when they port, unlike residential 
mortgage customers. So when Mr Ms broker looked into what Santander would lend him, it 
would only offer up to about £263,000, unless all the lending was on a Fixed Rate for five 
years or longer, in which case it could lend just over £362,000. Porting applications wouldnt 
qualify for that higher amount. 
Santander said that the lower lending amount was based on stressed affordability  so for 
that rate, it was working out whether Mr M could still afford the mortgage payments if interest 
rates went up substantially. But if someone applies for a mortgage with an interest rate thats 
fixed for five years or more, Santander uses a different test. It does that because it has the 
security of knowing that the customers interest rate is going to be stable for a considerable 
time. So with a five year fixed rate mortgage, it could lend Mr M substantially more. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the first of the two 
mortgages being considered here did say Mr M could port, but that was subject to 
Santanders lending criteria and affordability. And that existing mortgage had also clearly set 
out the applicable ERC. 
Our investigator said the crux of this case was how Santander assessed affordability for BTL 
customers who port their mortgage as against standard BTL. Our investigator said 
Santander, like other lenders, was entitled to stress mortgage affordability against its own 
risk appetite. He didnt think it had done anything wrong, and he didnt think it had to pay 
back the ERC which was then charged. 
Mr M said he was confused. If Santander had ported his mortgage to the new property then 
he and it would be in the same position, except he wouldnt have had to pay the ERC. He 
said he met lending criteria for the larger loan on the new property so he couldnt understand 
why Santander wouldnt port. He wanted to know why its criteria for a port were different to 
the criteria for a new mortgage.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr M said he wanted this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
When Mr Ms broker sent in his mortgage application, he said this was a loyal mover 
application. But thats just a term Santander uses for an existing customer. Under the loan 
details section of the application, Mr Ms broker replied to the question Porting product? 
with No. So Im satisfied that no porting application was actually made. 
It also appears unlikely that Mr M would have been able to port this mortgage in fact. He told 
us that his seller needed to complete, so he had to buy the second property before he sold 
the first. There was a gap of two months before Mr M was then able to sell his old property. 
It is sometimes possible to sell a property, then port that mortgage onto a purchase made 
shortly after this. But Santander has pointed out that its just not possible to port a mortgage 
onto a new property if its bought before the old one is sold  the mortgage cant port to a 
new property at the same time that its being used to pay off lending on the old property. And 
its largely standard in the industry that a mortgage cant be ported to a property already 
owned by a borrower.
Because Mr Ms ownership of the two properties overlapped for two months, and because it 
does seem reasonable to assume that, having decided to sell and buy, Mr M would have 
been motivated to minimise this overlap as much as possible, it doesnt seem likely that 
Mr M would have been able to port in this instance. I also note that Mr M previously had a fixed interest rate of 2.04% with four years to run. He 
then secured a fixed interest rate of 1.79%, with five years to run.
I do think there are a number of difficulties with what Mr M is arguing for. He didnt actually 
apply to port his mortgage. Given the timing of his purchase and sale, it seems unlikely that 
he would have been able to port the mortgage as it wouldve required the original property to 
have sold, and it hadnt. And hes not in the same situation now that he would have been if 
hed been able to port (aside from the ERC). Hes secured a lower rate, for an extended 
term.
Ive set out the above to explain that I think that there would still be some hurdles for Mr M to 
get over, before it would be fair to ask Santander to refund his ERC, even if I thought 
Santander had been unfair in not allowing him to port his mortgage. 
Ill now turn to Mr Ms central contention, which is that its not fair for Santander to refuse to 
port his existing mortgage, when it said it would lend him substantially more through a new 
mortgage. 
The mortgage Mr M took out in 2020 did say that if Mr M wanted to port his mortgage -
You must meet conditions set out in the mortgage conditions under Transferring 
your loan to a new mortgage. You must also meet our lending criteria and pass our 
affordability assessment at the time. 
Not all mortgages are portable. Here, Santander says this one is, but makes clear that it will 
apply extra conditions to any porting application. It will retest the affordability of Mr Ms 
borrowing before it will approve a porting application. And thats what Santander did. 
Santander said that, having done that retest, Mr M could only afford borrowing which was 
lower than his existing loan. But its explained it applied a less stringent test if Mr Ms 
borrowing was on a rate which is fixed for five years or more. I think thats a reasonable 
approach for Santander to have taken here. And on this approach, it could allow Mr M to 
borrow much more. 
Mr M says theres no difference between his old borrowing and his new borrowing. But, 
aside from the above issues, the length of the fix is different. And I dont think that Santander 
had to treat Mr Ms pre-existing fixed rate lending, which would have had under four years 
left to run when he completed on his new purchase, in the same way as his new lending, 
which he fixed for five years.
I know Mr M is unlikely to agree with me, but I dont think what Santander has done here is 
unfair or unreasonable. And that means I dont think it has to refund the ERC Mr M has paid. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman