DRN-3481629
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the failure of British Gas Services Limited (BG) to provide an 
annual service of his gas boiler and a number of rescheduled appointments.
What happened
Mr B has a HomeCare agreement with BG. This provides him with some insurance products 
and some non-insurance services which include an annual service of any gas appliances 
and an annual boiler service. 
Mr Bs complaint is that a number of appointments for an annual service were rescheduled 
by BG. Appointments originally made for 18 December 2020, 21 January 2021 and 26 April 
2021 were all rescheduled a few days before the scheduled date. On 23 April an 
appointment was made for 24 June 2021.
On 17 May 2021, BG wrote to Mr B to apologise for the inconvenience caused by the need to 
reschedule his appointments but explained that it had been prioritising emergency callouts and 
had had to reschedule routine appointments. It paid Mr B £40 as a goodwill gesture and by 
way of an apology. He was told that his service needed to take place during his contractual 
period which was from 25 June 2020 until 24 June 2021. The appointment for 24 June 
therefore wouldnt be rescheduled.
On 10 June 2021, BG wrote to Mr B to cancel the 24 June appointment. Mr B didnt renew 
his HomeCare agreement. 
On 5 July 2021, BG wrote again to Mr B to apologise for this further failure in the service it 
had provided. It sent him a further £50 as a gesture of goodwill and refunded him £65 being 
the cost of the annual service he hadnt received in the 2020-21 agreement year.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that BG was acting within the terms of its agreement with Mr B. 
She took into account the context in which BG had rescheduled Mr Bs appointments, and 
the payments it had made to him, and considered that BG had made reasonable efforts to 
put things right. She therefore didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B doesnt accept our investigators view, so his complaint has now been passed to me for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered our investigators view, and Ive also considered what Mr B has said in 
response to it. Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill give my 
reasons.
In order to uphold Mr Bs complaint, I would need to find that BG had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr B. Whilst I can quite appreciate the frustration that Mr B would 
have felt having been let down by BG on so many occasions, and whilst I entirely agree that 
BGs service was not what Mr B was entitled to expect, I dont think BG has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in addressing Mr Bs complaint for these reasons:
BGs terms and conditions state that annual service visits can be rescheduled, and 
more than twelve months apart. The HomeCare agreement states: 
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until 
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
BG has explained that the restrictions imposed during the Covid pandemic left it with 
less time to fit in all of its customer service visits as there were periods when it 
couldnt attend customers properties. For example, a second lockdown was imposed 
from 5 November 2020 which continued until early 2021. Emergency callouts were 
prioritised, and annual service visits were deemed not essential. That wouldve 
created a backlog of service visits on top of emergencies, and BG also experienced 
staff shortages due to engineers having to isolate.
On each occasion BG gave what I consider to be reasonable advance notice of the 
cancellations  6, 3 and 14 days respectively  which, although frustrating, limited the 
inconvenience to Mr B.
As emergencies were being prioritized over annual services, if Mr Bs boiler had 
broken down or Mr B had safety concerns, a repair wouldve been undertaken as a 
priority, so the insurance element of his HomeCare agreement was unaffected.
BG has accepted that the service it provided was inadequate and has made goodwill 
payments to Mr B totalling £90. I consider this amount is reasonable and is in line 
with the amount of compensation this service might otherwise have required BG to 
pay in the circumstances.
BG has also refunded Mr B £65, that being the annual service element of his 
HomeCare premium as BG failed to provide him with an annual service during the 
June 2020-21 year. Mr B continued to benefit from the insurance cover provided by 
his agreement, so he hasnt paid BG for something it hasnt provided. 
My conclusion is that whilst BG failed to provide a satisfactory service to Mr B, it has taken 
reasonable and appropriate steps to put that right. Im therefore not going to require it to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman