DRN-1741502
 
The complaint
Miss S says HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (HSBC) mis-sold her a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss S took out a credit card with HSBC in May 2000. At the same time she was sold a 
regular premium PPI policy to cover her credit card payments.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy was 
presented as optional and thought the policy provided a useful benefit.
Miss S disagreed. She says she thought the policy was mandatory.  
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S applied for her credit card by completing a postal application form. HSBC needed to 
make it clear the PPI was optional and make sure Miss S agreed to take it. 
Ive looked at the original credit card application sent to us by HSBC completed and signed 
by Miss S. In the section titled Cardholder Repayment Protector Miss S has ticked next to 
the words If you would like cover please tick box. 
If Miss S didnt want the cover she couldve left it blank and ticked the box next to the words 
If you dont want cover please tick the box. So I think its likely Miss S wouldve understood 
the PPI was optional and she ticked to take PPI because she wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think HSBC advised Miss S to take 
PPI. What this means is that HSBC didnt recommend PPI to Miss S, it just gave her 
information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
HSBC say that sufficient information wouldve been given to allow Miss S to make an 
informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. I can see some information on PPI is 
given on the application form. But I cant say whether all the proper information needed was 
given. That being said even if HSBC did give all the information Miss S needed to make an 
informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Miss S says she was entitled to some sick pay but had no 
other means of making her credit card payments if she couldnt work. A successful 
claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and covered her for 
potentially longer and it would've covered her credit card payments if she lost her job. 
So I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put her off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Miss S and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Miss S on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman