DRN-4260935
The complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
following an account switch.
What happened
Mr M says he decided to switch his account from Virgin Money to a different business but 
says as a result he was unable to access the money in his savings account. He says he 
needed urgent access to his savings and the issue caused distress as well as inconvenience 
in attending a branch. Mr M says in summary the compensation offered by Virgin Money isnt 
sufficient and it should have told him he needed a current account to transfer his savings 
into. He also says he spent some time on hold to Virgin Money when he called it.
Virgin Money accepts its call wait times were too long and has apologised as well as paying 
£25 compensation. It says it makes clear in the account terms and conditions that to access 
money in a savings account, the money needs to be sent to the current account. Virgin 
Money says Mr M was able to access his money by attending a branch and says he could 
have transferred his money before the account switch.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the £25 compensation appropriate, and that Mr M ought to have been 
aware that he needed to transfer money from one account to the other, as he had done so in 
the past.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says £25 compensation isnt enough for an hours wait on 
a telephone call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Virgin Money has dealt fairly with this 
complaint, and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of it.
There is no issue here that Mr M waited on a telephone call for about an hour. I appreciate 
that would have caused inconvenience to him, but Im satisfied Virgin Money has fairly 
apologised for that part of the complaint. And has paid him what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation award of £25. I dont think Mr M suffered any financial loss and 
the level of frustration and inconvenience doesnt justify further compensation.
The main part of the complaint is Mr Ms problem is accessing his savings account. I have 
looked carefully at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr M would have agreed 
to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that to access 
money from the savings account, it needs to be sent to the current account. So, I dont think 
Virgin Money made a mistake or acted unfairly in these circumstances when Mr M closed his 
current account before making a transfer from his savings account. I find that was his 
decision that Virgin Money played no part in save to follow his instructions in closing his 
current account. I find Virgin Money acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions 
and there was limited access to the savings account caused by Mr M closing his current 
account first.
I appreciate Mr M says Virgin Money ought to have made that clearer, but I think it did by 
setting that issue out in the terms and conditions. And I can see that Mr M had accessed his 
savings by transferring his money to his current account in the past, so I think on balance it 
was a process known to him.
I accept Mr M attended a branch to access his money but that is not something I can fairly 
hold Virgin Money responsible for.
Overall, I find Virgin Money acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and was 
under no obligation to warn Mr M, that by closing his current account, that would result in 
problems accessing his savings. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman