DRN-3986473
The complaint
Mr S complains Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No. 9) 
(Asset Link) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Asset Link approved Mr S for a £3,000 loan in July 2018. This loan was to help with Mr Ss 
living costs whilst he was completing his higher educational studies. The loan was broken 
down into the below repayments:
Date Amount Term In-Study 
RepaymentOut of Study 
repayment
July 2018 £3,000 58 Months 26 x £5 32 x £170
Mr S says this loan was irresponsibly lent. He says Asset Link did not complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks before approving the loan. Mr S also complains about the validity 
of the assessment that Asset Link completed in determining his future earnings when 
conducting its affordability assessment.
Our investigator did not recommend Mr Ss complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Asset Link had completed proportionate checks, including using predicted future income, 
before lending to Mr S. Our investigator did agree that Asset Link shouldve done better 
checks when Mr Ss out of study repayments began. However, she was satisfied that had it 
done better checks, Asset Link wouldve seen the loan was likely affordable to Mr S at this 
point.
Mr S disagreed with this assessment. He maintained that Asset Link had acted unfairly when 
initially approving the loan. He maintained that he was not in a stable financial position at this 
point in time; and that it acted unfairly when completing its affordability assessment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice I think there are 
three key questions for me to think about while looking at Mr Ss complaint.
These are:
1. Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Asset Link complete a review of Mr Ss circumstances once the in study period 
had ended?
a. If so, did this show Mr S had secured a job in line with the salary expectations 
and repayments were likely affordable/sustainable?
b. If not, would those checks have shown Mr S had secured a job in line with the 
forecasted salary and could meet the repayments in an affordable/sustainable 
way?
3. Did Asset Link act unreasonably in any other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Mr S would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so did it make a fair decision to lend?
Asset Link needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Mr S. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Mr Ss ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over 
its term without causing him financial difficulties. There isnt a set list of checks a lender 
needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, taking into account things like the type, 
amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers circumstances. 
Under the relevant regulations at the time, Asset Link was entitled to rely on expected future 
income for Mr S when making this assessment. Provided that this assessment was 
appropriate (bearing in mind what these regulations required in terms of proportionality) and 
there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in relation to any initial payments.
The loan was taken in July 2018; and was for a total of £3,000. The purpose of the loan was 
listed to help Mr S with his cost of living expenses as he completed his further education 
studies (albeit Mr S says it was used to purchase a car). Mr S says at the time of the 
application he was struggling financially. He explained when he applied to Asset Link that he 
was in financial hardship and had already taken out a number of other forms of credit. He 
says Asset Link did not take this into consideration when approving the loan.
Asset Link says it completed proportionate checks in this instance. It says it completed a 
credit search on Mr S before approving the loan.  
The credit file showed that Mr S did have existing credit commitments. These included credit 
cards and mail order accounts. The credit report showed that the total balances for these 
credit commitments amounted to a relatively low amount. Mr S also had an existing 
government backed student loan.
The credit report shows that Mr S had had issues managing some of these credit 
commitments in the past. One of his credit cards was showing as being over the agreed limit by a small amount, and that he had developed around two months of arrears on it. The rest 
of his credit commitments were being managed within the limits and did not show adverse 
markers. 
Mr S declared he had an annual income of around £9,000 at that point in time. 
Mr S says he had also taken out some other forms of credit, however these did not show on 
the report which Asset Link completed. Whist Ive no doubt Mr S did have additional forms of 
unsecured credit, Asset Link was entitled to rely on the information it gathered at the time. I 
cant see that it was aware of any conflicting information which demonstrated it could not rely 
on the information it had been presented with. 
Asset Link then went on to calculate Mr Ss future expected income. It says based on the 
information it had at the time that Mr S would be earning approximately £1,280 per month. 
Asset Link also calculated Mr Ss expected outgoings, including his increased payments for 
this loan; and deemed that Mr S would have sufficient disposable income to meet this 
sustainably. It says based on these checks the loan appeared affordable. 
Ive considered Asset Links arguments; and in this instance I agree with it. 
Im mindful that the amount being borrowed here, while not insignificant, wasnt for an 
especially large amount. This meant that the in study and out of study repayments remained 
relatively low. Therefore, the checks that Asset Link had to do needed to be proportionate to 
these amounts. As such Im satisfied proportionate checks in this instance wouldve included 
obtaining a reasonable understanding of Mr Ss circumstances. 
As set out above Asset Link checked Mr Ss credit file; and used this information to help 
inform its calculations. Whilst the credit file showed some negative markers; but the majority 
of the credit (for a low amount) was being well maintained. I acknowledge that Mr S did have 
arrears on one of his credit cards, but I dont find this uncommon in similar circumstances  
he was after all a student and not working full time. Im not persuaded that these markers 
alone would be enough to prevent Asset Link from lending to him.
As part of its checks, Asset Link also considered Mr Ss likely future income. Asset Link has 
provided a number of detailed materials in relation to its business model to our service 
previously as well as on this case. Ive taken this information into account when considering 
the reasonableness of Asset Links prediction. For the sake of clarity Asset Link says it uses 
information from third parties (including the educational institutions which have been applied 
for) to gather the likely salary. It says it uses this information; as well as known credit 
commitments to conduct its future affordability assessment.
Ive considered this information and in this instance, Im satisfied its prediction of Mr Ss 
affordability was proportionate. In this instance, based on Mr Ss university and field of study, 
it predicted his likely income after gradation to be around £17,000 per year. This would give 
Mr S an average monthly income of around £1,280 per month. Considering what Asset Link 
has said about Mr Ss course, this figure seems reasonable. It may be different if the salary 
predicted was unreasonably high, but Im satisfied that a salary of £17,000 per year is in line 
with most graduate starting salaries, and therefore Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to 
rely on it.
Mr S says that its not fair for Asset Link to rely on his potential earnings when completing the 
initial affordability assessment. He says that the relevant rules say that the financial 
information gathered at the time should also be taken into account. Whilst I accept that Asset 
Link needed to carefully consider the information it gathered from Mr S at the time, Ive also 
explained why Im satisfied that it did this. Im also satisfied that Asset Link was entitled to rely on the future predicted earnings of Mr S when completing its assessment. Ultimately it 
has demonstrated that it has come to a reasonable figure (based on different sources of 
information); and it has exercised forbearance measures (such as nominal payments during 
the study period) until such time that Mr S ought reasonably have achieved the predicted 
income. Im satisfied, as in other cases of a similar nature, that Asset Link has acted fairly 
and in line with the relevant rules at the point it made the initial lending decision. 
Asset Links calculations for Mr Ss future outgoings also appears reasonable. It has taken 
into account Mr Ss known expenses and factored in the increased out of study repayments. 
So, whilst this calculation is not fool-proof it does take into consideration the known 
commitments that Mr S had. And again, considering the relatively low value of the loan and 
repayments Im satisfied it was proportionate in this instance. 
In addition to the above, I also note that this loan was being used to help Mr S with his living 
expenses whilst he was studying. So Asset Link was entitled to take this into account when 
considering any expenses he had during the period he was studying. I appreciate Mr S says 
he used this money to purchase a car, however at the time of the application it was listed to 
help his living expenses. I dont therefore find it unreasonable that Asset Link considered the 
money for that purpose. 
So based on this, Im satisfied that Asset Link completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the loan. It follows that as Im satisfied that proportionate checks 
were completed, that Im also satisfied it made a fair decision to lend. 
The information which Asset Link gathered at the time demonstrated that Mr S would likely 
be able to afford the repayments during and after his studies had been completed. It had a 
reasonable prediction of what the future income and outgoings would be; and these 
demonstrated the loan was likely affordable.
Asset Link was entitled to rely on the information which Mr S provided it, as there doesnt 
appear to be any contradictory information which suggested it shouldnt. So, Im satisfied it 
made a fair decision to lend.
Did Asset Link complete a review of Mr Ss circumstances once the in-study period had 
ended?
As the bulk of the repayments on this loan were always going to be made once Mr S 
completed his course and Asset Link could only estimate what Mr Ss circumstances would 
be like at this time, it was required to ensure that once the out of study period had begun, 
that Mr S was able to meet the increased monthly repayments.
Mr S was due to begin his out of study repayments in October 2020. The out of study 
repayment increased to a total of around £170. 
Asset Link accepts that it failed to contact Mr S prior to the increase in his repayments. It 
says this was due to a technical error. So it follows that Im satisfied that Asset Link did not 
complete a sufficient review of Mr Ss circumstances once the repayments increased. 
As this review was not done, Ive based my decision on what information wouldve likely 
shown at the time. Mr S has provided our service with his bank statements from this period 
of time. In the absence of any other information from Asset Link from the time, Ive placed 
considerable weight on these statements.
From reviewing the statements, Im satisfied that they show Mr S had the sufficient level of 
disposable income to meet his credit commitments. I note that he was receiving a salary in line with the predicted income, and that his outgoings, whilst higher than those predicted by 
Asset Link, were still such that Mr S was left with a sufficient income to meet his 
commitments.
Mr S says that whilst the statements show he could mathematically meet the commitments, 
that he was still struggling financially. He says that he had received an increased income in 
the form of bursaries, and this had inflated his income. Whilst again this may be true, Im still 
satisfied that the level of disposable income Asset Link wouldve seen at the time (taking Mr 
Ss argument into account), wouldve been sufficient for it to conclude that Mr S could afford 
the repayments. So whilst I know Mr S will disagree, Im satisfied that the repayments 
wouldve likely been affordable to Mr S, and as such Asset Link have not acted unfairly in 
continuing to take repayment at this point.
Did Asset Link act unfairly in any other way?
Mr S also says that Asset Link acted unfairly in its handling of his account after he had 
graduated, and in particular around a deferment holiday period around September 2021. 
Asset Link has accepted that it did not handle this aspect of Mr Ss complaint well, and that 
its agent shouldve done more to understand Mr Ss circumstances. Asset Link in recognition 
of this refunded Mr S the applicable interest totalling £164, back to his account. Considering 
this puts Mr S in the position he wouldve been in, Im satisfied this is fair resolution to this 
aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Ive not been presented any further information which demonstrates Asset Link acted unfairly 
when handling Mr Ss account.
Overall, Im satisfied that Asset Link acted fairly when approving Mr S for this loan. Although 
it did not complete sufficient checks once Mr Ss payments increased, Im satisfied those 
checks wouldve shown Mr S could sustainably afford the repayments. It follows that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr S. I would remind Asset Link 
of its ongoing responsibilities to work with Mr S should he be struggling to meet repayments 
now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman