DRN-2970878
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) regarding the management of its loan accounts.
What happened
In 2006, S took a land loan and a development loan from RBS to finance a property 
development project. Work began in 2007 and in 2008 a further development loan was 
agreed. The properties were completed early in 2009. The terms of the loans were then 
extended  the land loan to March 2011 and the development loans to November 2011  
and the companys total borrowing was increased. But by May 2011, none of the properties 
had been sold, so it was agreed that the properties should be rented out to generate some 
income.
In June 2011, the bank transferred the management of Ss accounts to a Special 
Relationship Manager (SRM). A month later, the bank said it would be willing to extend the 
duration of the land loan, which had expired, to November 2011 to match the other loans.
In February 2012, RBS consolidated all of Ss borrowing into a single loan, to expire at the 
beginning of June 2012. There were no property sales, so the bank extended the expiry date 
first by one month, then by two. S requested a five-year interest-only loan facility, which the 
bank declined.
During August 2012, RBS informed S that it would be starting formal default procedures 
because of a lack of progress on the sale of the properties. In October 2012, the bank sent S 
a formal letter reserving its rights and requesting a repayment proposal. In January 2013, the 
bank sent a formal demand for repayment of the debt, then appointed LPA receivers. The 
properties were sold between April 2013 and August 2014.
RBS considered Ss case under its voluntary review scheme and issued its conclusions in 
January 2020, after its initial findings had also been considered by the Independent Third 
Party, which was the appeal stage of the scheme. The bank concluded that it had caused S 
no losses and offered no compensation. Unhappy with that outcome, S referred its complaint 
to us in June 2020.
Ss complaint was as follows, in summary:
The bank unfairly required a third-party property valuation in 2012.
The bank took control of the companys accounts.
There was a lack of engagement by the bank.
The loan interest rates were unfairly increased, and bank required an exit/disposal 
fee.
The bank forced the sale of Ss properties and unfairly appointed LPA receivers.
Our investigator looked at all the evidence provided and concluded that the bank hadnt 
acted unfairly. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
In 2012 it wasnt unreasonable for the bank to request an updated property valuation. 
The consolidated loan had expired and none of the properties had been sold. The 
bank was reasonably considering its security and assessing the case for further 
lending. In any event, theres no evidence that the valuation was actually carried out 
or that S was charged for it.
S may have felt under pressure to make repayments when it couldnt sell the 
properties and missed loan repayment deadlines. But the bank showed forbearance 
by extending the facilities on several occasions and allowing S time to manage the 
portfolio and its finances independently. From the evidence, the investigator was 
unable to say that the bank controlled Ss accounts or applied undue pressure. 
RBS declined Ss proposal for an interest-only five-year loan, but the bank was 
entitled to make a commercial decision based on the circumstances at the time. 
Before that, RBS had engaged in negotiations which ultimately led to the restructure 
in February 2012 and subsequent agreements to extend it. The investigator hadnt 
seen anything to suggest the bank hadnt engaged with S.
The consolidated loan interest rate was base plus 3.25%, which was higher than the 
rate of base plus 2.55% on the previous loans. The investigator didnt think this was 
excessively high when compared with the banks general rates at the time. Moreover, 
S had previously been paying the default rate on its excesses, which was higher than 
the new rate. The new rate was clearly shown on the consolidated loan agreement 
which S accepted. The 1% disposal fee, to be applied to each property sold, was 
also a condition of the loan. But the aim of this arrangement was to assist S with its 
cash flow at the time  instead of up-front loan arrangement fees, charges were to be 
paid from funds available after the properties were sold. In any event, it seems that 
the disposal fees werent applied when the properties were sold.
It was always intended that the loans would be repaid by the sale of the properties. 
To assist with the sale of the properties, RBS had extended and increased Ss 
facilities several times, over three years. As no sales were secured independently by 
S and the loans were unpaid, it wasnt unreasonable that the bank appointed LPA 
receivers.
S disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Its director, Mr R, made the following points, 
in summary:
The original loans were freely entered into by the bank. The world economic crash 
then made sales of the properties unlikely within a few years. If the bank had wanted, 
it could have agreed to long-term rentals which would have financed loans, providing 
time to convert into sales. 
The bank had no absolute right to a full recovery of its consolidated loan should asset 
values fall through no direct fault of either party.
S was in full compliance with its current amended loan agreements when it was 
transferred to the SRM in June 2011. The bank gave an ultimatum  though it wasnt 
minuted  that the properties should be sold in a short timescale regardless of losses. There was no suggestion of realistic support being offered. This seemed an 
abuse of the strength of the bank.
S has learned only from the investigator that Ss credit management was transferred 
to a department within GRG in January 2012 and the management of Ss accounts 
were transferred to GRG in January 2013. The involvement of GRG wasnt 
communicated to S at the time.
The bank has already apologised for not offering a choice of accredited firms for a 
valuation in 2011. This alone should initiate a compensation award.
In the investigators assessment, theres no recognition of the published reviews of 
the conduct of RBS and its GRG division.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
I agree that RBS showed forbearance by extending the facilities several times after expiry of 
the initial loans in 2009 and by allowing S time to sell the properties. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for bank to call in LPA receivers in 2013 when the debt was still outstanding 
and no properties had been sold. 
Im satisfied that the charges which S complains about  for the valuations and the disposal 
fees  either werent charged or didnt result in any losses to S. The interest rate margin on 
the consolidation loan in 2012 was higher than on the expired loans, but I think the bank was 
entitled to offer the new lending on terms which reflected its own assessment of the risk. 
Ill consider Mr Rs responses to the investigators findings in the order as listed above.
As Mr R says, RBS did freely agree the initial lending. But each of the loan agreements had 
an expiry date, and the bank had no obligation to extend the duration of the lending beyond 
that date. In the event, when S was unable to sell the properties, RBS did maintain and 
increase the companys borrowing facilities for several additional years. In my view, that 
showed forbearance and positive engagement. I realise that S wanted the bank to continue 
the lending beyond the final expiry date, and in 2012 made a request for a further loan on an 
interest-only basis. But there was no obligation on RBS to agree, and the bank was entitled 
to make a commercial decision about whether to renew the lending, based on its own 
assessment of the risks. Given the assistance the bank had repeatedly given to S since the 
initial lending expired, I dont think the bank acted unreasonably or unfairly when it declined 
the further loan application in 2012. 
Mr R says the collapse of asset values wasnt the direct fault of either party. I appreciate that 
the global financial crisis was an unexpected event, and I can understand why Mr R feels 
that S suffered losses because of something which wasnt the companys fault. But that 
doesnt mean RBS had no right to require repayment of the borrowing, or to rely on the 
security it held. The loan agreements had expired without repayment, and S had given the 
security to cover the banks risk should that situation arise. Under the terms of the loan 
agreements, RBS was entitled to seek repayment of the debt by sale of the properties.   Even if S was up to date in June 2011 with its repayments under the extended loan, the 
properties were still unsold and the lending was due to expire within six months. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for RBS to be concerned about the risks 
and to take action to give closer scrutiny to the loan accounts. A bank is entitled to decide 
how it can best manage accounts and organise its staff, as long as it treats customers fairly 
and reasonably, so I dont think the transfer of the accounts to the SRM was in itself 
unreasonable. 
I cant know what was said unrecorded at meetings, but theres no documentary evidence 
that the bank gave S an ultimatum in mid-2011 to sell the properties in the short term at a 
loss. I note that S didnt sell the properties and the bank agreed a further extension of the 
lending with the consolidation loan in 2012. The properties werent sold until 2013 and 2014. 
So, whatever was said in 2011, it didnt lead to the company selling the properties in the 
short term. 
I dont think S was treated unfairly in respect of communications about GRG. Mr R draws 
attention to the involvement of a function within GRG from January 2012 onwards. But this 
was only for internal credit management, and the companys accounts as a whole remained 
under the management of the SRM, including when the decision was taken to call in LPA 
receivers. Later, Ss accounts were passed to GRG in January 2013, to make the practical 
arrangements for the appointment of the receivers, and from that point onwards the process 
was managed by the receivers. At the time there was no explicit mention of transfer to GRG 
in the communications with S, but I dont think the company suffered any loss as a result, 
and I dont believe it made any difference to the outcome. I should add that Im satisfied that 
throughout the period of the active management of Ss loans, the company was informed of 
and had access to the banks relationship managers who were responsible for the 
companys accounts.
Mr R points out that RBS apologised for not offering a choice of valuers in 2011. But I note 
the bank also concluded that S didnt suffer any direct loss as a result. I dont think it would 
be reasonable to require RBS to pay any compensation for this matter. The valuation was 
needed for the refinancing assessment and the fee was added to Ss debt. Later, the 
recovery from the property sales didnt cover all of Ss debt to the bank, therefore the cost 
the valuation ultimately remained with the bank. 
As regards the published reports on the banks general conduct regarding GRG, I should say 
that this service determines each complaint on its individual circumstances. Ive looked 
carefully at the available evidence about the events in this particular case in order to reach 
my decision. Im aware of evidence of failings in other cases, but that doesnt change my 
conclusions about Ss complaint. 
I realise that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and Im aware of the strength of his 
feelings about Ss complaint. But, having considered all the evidence and arguments, I dont 
require RBS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman