DRN-2891413
The complaint
Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to 
a scam.
What happened
In April 2020 Miss W fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
In April 2020, Miss W was added to a Snapchat account and received a message from 
somebody saying they worked for Student Finance. The message said they helped students, 
as they understood how difficult a time it was for students during the pandemic, and that they 
could increase the value of their student finance. Miss W was told that if she sent them the 
money she received from student finance (c £2,800), they would return the money that day 
along with an additional £1,000.
Miss W has said that, at first, she wasnt keen on doing it. But shes told us she spoke to 
who had sent her the messages and they sent her a link to the genuine Student Finance 
website. Miss W said hearing their voice and receiving the link made her think they were 
legitimate. Believing everything to be genuine, Miss W decided to go ahead. She was told 
that she needed to make the payments in two instalments, as it was too much to send all in 
one go, and she was given different bank details for each of the payments. Miss W made the 
following faster payments, totalling £2,800;
- 20 April 2020 £2,000
- 20 April 2020 £800
When Miss W didnt receive the money as promised, she became concerned, but received a 
further Snapchat message saying there was a delay in student finance money being sent. 
But then Miss W was blocked from being able to contact the person and it became clear to 
Miss W then, that she had been dealing with a fraudster and sent her money to accounts 
controlled by them.
Miss W raised the issue with Santander and it attempted to recover the money from the 
beneficiary banks, but no funds remained. 
Santander considered its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. Santander sent its final 
response on 24 July 2020, it didnt consider it should be held liable for Miss Ws loss, it said 
this because it didnt think she carried out sufficient checks before making her payments.
Miss W was unhappy with Santanders response and so brought her complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary, this was because she didnt think Miss W had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payment was for a genuine reason or that the person she transacted with was 
legitimate. 
Miss W didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Santander should have reimbursed Miss W under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss W from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Miss W was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
would receive an additional  £1,000 from student finance, if she sent back what she had 
already been paid. But she was tricked by a fraudster into doing this. But this isnt enough, in 
and of itself, for Miss W to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Miss W too.
The CRM Code 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Santander to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
In this case, I think Santander has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Miss W under the terms of the CRM Code. I say this as Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the 
circumstances of this case.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of this case and the scam that Miss W sadly 
fell victim to. Having done so, I dont find that Miss W had a reasonable basis for believing 
the payment was for genuine purposes and the person she transacted with was legitimate.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded that there were warning signs that things may not have 
been as they seemed. Miss W was told that if she returned the student finance she had 
received, of c £2,800, they would return the money that day along with an additional £1,000. 
It seems to me that to be offered such a significant increase was highly questionable, to the 
point of being too good to be true. 
Im also mindful that it would appear highly unusual for a government agency to 
communicate through Snapchat, especially in relation to important financial matters, and 
Miss W has confirmed she had never communicated with Student Finance in this way 
before. And from the Snapchat messages Ive seen, they dont, on the face of it, come 
across as being very professional or akin to how you might typically expect to receive a 
communication from such an organisation. There are a number of obvious spelling mistakes, 
emojis and nothing to indicate the messages are from a legitimate source. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Miss W was given an explanation as to why she would need 
to send her finance back, rather than just receiving the additional payment. And where Miss 
W is also asked to pay two different accounts, held by two individuals, rather than to make a 
payment to the organisation itself, I think this ought to have caused Miss W to question 
whether the arrangement was legitimate.  
Miss W has said that she thought the contact was genuine, as she was sent a link to the 
Student Finance website and she spoke to the person whod sent her the messages in 
person before making the payments. But I consider that it would likely be relatively 
straightforward for anybody to send a link for a government website, so Im not persuaded 
this should have been sufficient, given everything else that was going on in this case, to 
have given Miss W comfort that who she was dealing with was genuine.
Miss W has said that she had fallen victim to a scam previously (a different type of scam on 
an account she holds with another bank). I can see from the Snapchat messages that have 
been shared with me that Miss W does say to the fraudster, before progressing with the 
payments, that Shes scared and when the fraudster asks why, Miss W explains of being 
scammed again. Miss W also explained to Santander, when she reported the scam, that 
she wasnt keen on doing it at first. I think its fair and reasonable to think that, having been 
scammed before, Miss W ought to have been more wary of proceeding, when considering 
the circumstances of what was happening. And her comments to the fraudster appear to 
indicate Miss W had considered the possibility this might also be a scam.
On balance, when considering that Miss W was being offered a deal that seemed too good 
to be true, that its not likely a government agency would communicate through this type of 
social media platform for finance related matters and given that Miss W seemed to have her 
own concerns, having been scammed previously. I think Miss W ought reasonably to have 
done more than she did to check the deal and to satisfy herself that it was legitimate before 
making the payment. In not doing so, I think she fell below the level of care expected of her 
under the CRM Code.
Should Santander have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss W? 
Ive thought about whether Santander did enough to protect Miss W from financial harm. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss W made this payment, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Santander has said that a warning would have displayed on Miss Ws mobile banking at the 
time the payments were made and has shared what this warning would have looked like. But 
having seen this, I dont think this would have been effective as it didnt cover the type of 
scam Miss W fell victim to. But Ive considered the payments Miss W made to the fraudsters 
and I dont think they stood out as being remarkable enough for Santander to have been 
concerned she may have been at risk of financial fraud at the time she made them. I dont 
think Santander ought to have identified an APP scam risk in the payment requests and so 
overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I wouldnt have expected Santander to have 
done more than it did when processing the payments.
All things considered, while Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss W, and I can 
understand entirely why she feels so strongly that this money should be returned to her, I 
cant fairly or reasonably ask Santander to refund her the money she has lost. Overall, Im 
satisfied the bank has been able to establish it can choose not to refund Miss W under the 
CRM Code. Im also satisfied the bank processed Miss Ws payment correctly and it did all it 
could to help her once it knew what had happened.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman