DRN-2130243
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages unfairly charged them a fee of £180 for a property assessment even though the 
assessment wasnt completed. Mr W and Mrs W would like a partial refund to reflect that all 
the work wasnt done.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W applied for a remortgage of their buy to let property with Precise. As part of 
the process Precise required them to pay a property assessment fee of £180 and a valuation 
fee of £450. Precise instructed a valuation but one of the tenants refused the valuers access 
to part of the property. Mr W and Mrs W discontinued the application. As the valuation hadnt 
taken place, Precise returned the valuation fee but not the assessment fee of £180. 
Precise said that this was a non-refundable fee. Mr Wand Mrs W said that there were a 
number of steps in the assessment process. As Precise had only dealt with the first step it 
should refund the fee for the other two steps. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as Precise had made it clear that the fee was non refundable 
irrespective of the amount of work involved. Mr W and Mrs W disagreed saying in summary 
that by charging a fee irrespective of the work involved that Precise wasnt treating its 
customers fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W and Mrs W accept they were aware when they applied for the remortgage that the 
assessment fee was non-refundable. Their understanding of this was that if the assessment 
was done and it was unsuccessful that the fee was non-refundable. On the other hand, if 
only part of the work was done, and it didnt proceed to full assessment that in all fairness 
Precise should refund an amount for the part of the work not done. Mr W and Mrs W give an 
example that if they agreed a price with a painter to paint three rooms for £180 but then 
discontinued his contract after painting one room, they wouldnt be expected to pay the full 
£180. 
I should say that on the painter example above, if the painter had agreed a contract for £180 
and was prevented by the house owner from fulfilling the terms of the contract, I would have 
thought that he would be entitled to the £180 - the agreed contract price.  But my role is to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances with reference to the law including 
contract law but other matters such as industry practice. Its not unusual for a lender to state 
that fees are non-refundable. This creates certainty for the consumer that he/she wont have 
to pay more than the agreed figure, but the downside is that the consumer wont pay less 
than the agreed figure. Giving Mr W and Mrs W certainty about what they will be charged 
seems to be fair treatment of the consumer as long as they were aware of it. 
Mr W and Mrs W say they were aware that the fee was non-refundable but only in certain 
circumstances and not as here. In the course of the assessment, they asked for the 
assessment to be discontinued. But the mortgage illustration makes clear what happens in 
those circumstances only the valuation fee is refundable, if the valuation is not carried out, 
the Assessment Fee of £180 is non-refundable. This was contained in a document issued 
before the fee was paid or incurred, so its reasonable to accept that Mr W and Mrs W 
continued with the application on that basis and accepting those terms So, I dont consider it 
unfair that Precise requires Mr W and Mrs W to comply with the agreed terms. As a result, I 
cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman