DRN-3488694
The complaint
Mr W complains Reassured Ltd mis-sold him a life insurance policy, as he says it wrongly 
led him to believe his policy included critical illness cover (CIC).
What happened
In December 2021, Mr W and his wife Mrs W enquired about protection for mortgage lending 
they planned. As a broker, Reassured spoke to Mrs W and went through a telephone 
application with her. As part of this, Mrs W disclosed a health condition. A life policy with 
terminal illness benefit was set up for Mrs W. At the end of the call, Mrs W asked about 
adding income protection cover and CIC. Reassured made clear these werent currently 
included. 
Reassured spoke to Mr W very soon after. Mr W confirmed he wanted the same cover as 
Mrs W and Reassured went through a telephone application for Mr W. Mr W disclosed he 
was diagnosed with thyroid cancer in August 2020 and his treatment concluded in January 
2021 with no further concerns. One insurer declined to offer Mr W cover at that time, but 
Reassured found another insurer who was willing to offer Mr W life cover, albeit at a higher 
premium. Reassured later called Mrs W about this, and she relayed the information to Mr W. 
Mr W agreed to go ahead, so a separate life policy with terminal illness benefit was set up 
for him.
In January 2022, Mrs W asked Reassured if Mr Ws policy included CIC. Reassured 
confirmed it didnt, and said CIC wasnt offered due to the medical disclosures made. Mr W 
complained Reassured had wrongly led him to believe his policy included CIC. 
Reassured didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said Mrs W asked about CIC during her 
application, but was told her medical history meant she wouldnt be offered CIC and her 
policy was for life cover only. And Mr W had confirmed he wanted the same cover Mrs W 
had, so it discussed life cover quotes with him and never mentioned CIC. Reassured said it 
found an insurer that would provide life cover to Mr W, and told Mr W there were no added 
exclusions except the general suicide exclusion, and Mr W agreed to go ahead. Reassured 
said it was the insurers decision about whether to offer cover or not, and Mr Ws insurer had 
confirmed it wouldnt offer Mr W CIC cover.
Mr W brought his complaint to our Service, saying Reassured told him hed have life and 
CIC with no exclusions, and that his policy would pay out if his cancer reoccurred. Mr W 
wanted Reassured to put things right by paying the full sum assured in the event he was 
diagnosed with a reoccurrence of cancer.  
Our Investigator didnt think Reassured had made an error or given incorrect information. 
Mr W disagreed. He said Reassured repeatedly said there were no exclusions, which he 
thought meant CIC was included. That Reassured shouldve made it clear this was different 
to CIC not being included, as someone without industry knowledge wouldnt know the 
difference. And that he thought the higher premiums meant CIC was included, as his doctors 
say his cancer diagnosis wont affect his life expectancy, so theres no reason for premiums 
to have been higher just for life cover. 
As Mr W disagreed, this complaint came to me for a decision. I contacted both parties to say 
that while it was unfortunate Mr W thought CIC was included in his policy, I didnt think 
Reassured caused that, or caused Mr W to lose CIC he otherwise might have had.
Mr W provided what he said was the insurers standard policy summary, from its website  
he said this included CIC and Reassured told him this is what hed get. And Reassured 
implied CIC was included by saying there were no policy exclusions, so it should pay him at 
least half the sum assured. Mr W said that when Reassured asked if he wanted the same 
cover as Mrs W, this was about the sum assured, not about whether CIC was included. And 
anyone without specialist knowledge wouldve thought CIC was included given Reassured 
was ambiguous in its communication. Mr W said his cancer had now reoccurred and no 
insurer would provide him with CIC.
Reassured provided copies of Mr Ws policy schedule and terms and conditions. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say how sorry I am to hear of Mr Ws 2020 cancer diagnosis and that it has 
recently returned. I realise this must be a very distressing time for Mr W. But while I dont in 
any way wish to cause him further distress, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
However, I should be clear that in this decision Im only considering the sale of Mr Ws 
policy. Im not considering the sale of Mrs Ws policy or making any findings about that. 
Ive listened carefully to the calls Mrs W and then Mr W had with Reassured. Mrs W spoke to 
Reassured first, to set up her policy. In this call, Reassured said her policy only included life 
cover  while Mrs W asked at the end of the call about adding income protection cover and 
CIC, Reassured made it clear these werent included but could be looked at. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest either income protection or CIC was then added to Mrs Ws policy.
Not long after, Mr W had a call with Reassured to buy a policy. In that call, Reassured asked 
if it would be the same cover as Mrs W, and Mr W said it would. Mr W says this question 
was about the sum assured, not the cover. That may have been Mr Ws assumption, but its 
not what Reassured said. In this call, Reassured only talked about life cover - neither Mr W 
or Reassured mentioned CIC. And Reassured explained that Mr Ws policy would pay the 
sum assured if Mr W passed away or was diagnosed with a terminal illness, and the only 
exclusion was for suicide in the first twelve months of the policy. 
Mr W disclosed a cancer diagnosis in 2020, and Reassured found an insurer who was willing 
to offer him life cover. Reassured later called Mrs W about this, and she relayed the 
information to Mr W. Mr Ws life cover quote was more expensive than Reassured initially 
said it would be, before Mr W answered the insurers health and lifestyle application 
questions. I appreciate Mr W says he thought the higher premiums meant CIC was included, 
and his doctors thought his life expectancy wouldnt be affected by his 2020 cancer 
diagnosis. But Ive heard that Reassured explained to Mrs W that the higher premium was 
because of Mr Ws medical history, and Mr W agreed to go ahead with this policy. It was clear in this later call with Mrs W regarding Mr Ws policy that it was very important to 
Mr W and Mrs W to have protection. At times Mrs W and Reassured were talking about if the 
worst should happen, and Reassured said Mr Ws policy didnt contain any exclusions and 
would pay out if his cancer returned. So in this particular call, Reassured could perhaps have 
been clearer that what it meant here was that Mr Ws policy would only pay a claim if Mr W 
passed away or was diagnosed with a terminal illness, and that this didnt exclude cancer. 
However, its important to see this call in context. This call came after previous calls in which 
Reassured had already made clear that Mrs Ws policy only provided life cover, in which 
Mr W confirmed he wanted the same cover as Mrs W, in which Reassured had already 
explained Mr Ws policy would pay the sum assured to Mrs W if he passed away or was 
diagnosed with a terminal illness, and in which neither Mr W or Reassured mentioned CIC. 
I note Mr W says someone without industry knowledge wouldnt know that no exclusions 
was different to CIC not being included. However, Reassured provided Mr W with a 
reasonable opportunity to ask any questions he might have, and Ive not heard that Mr W 
asked for clarification about whether his policy included CIC. It is unfortunate Mr W thought 
his policy included CIC. But taking everything into account, I cant fairly say this was 
because of Reassured. 
And even if I thought Reassured should have been clearer in one later call, I dont think this 
has caused Mr W to lose CIC he otherwise might have had, or that Reassured should pay 
him at least half of the sum assured now his cancer has reoccurred, as Mr W suggests. 
Thats because the insurer has confirmed that Mr Ws medical history at the time of the sale 
means it wouldnt have offered him CIC. Based on this and Mr Ws significant and relatively 
recent diagnosis of cancer in 2020, I think its more likely than not that Mr W wouldnt have 
been able to get CIC from another insurer at that time that also included cover for cancer.
I realise this isnt the answer Mr W hoped for, but I'm not asking Reassured to do anything 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman