DRN-4007228
The complaint
Mr W complains a business that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) is now responsible for gave 
him unsuitable advice to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) in 1991.
What happened
In 1991 Mr W transferred his OPS into a Personal Pension with Phoenix (its predecessor 
firm but for ease Ill just refer to Phoenix). He now believes that the transfer was unsuitable, 
and he was wrongly advised. 
Mr W complained to Phoenix but it didnt provide a response for some time. Since then 
Phoenix have responded and offered to pay Mr W £200 due to the delay in answering his 
complaint. However, it did not uphold his complaint in relation to the transfer advice.
It said that Mr W at the time of the transfer was an employee of Phoenix. And that Mr W was 
a sales agent and had the relevant credentials to conduct pension transfers. It was his name 
on the point of sale documentation showing that he acted as the sales agent on his own 
pension transfer. Phoenix say Mr W wasnt advised by Phoenix but instead chose to take 
advantage of the opportunity to transfer his own OPS into a pension with it  benefiting from 
commission. And that as he was recorded  as the sales agent, he wouldve had  the relevant 
training and undergone sign off to sell products, so it was of the opinion Mr W wouldve been 
aware of the product features and whether the choice to transfer was correct for him.
The key evidence from the time shows:
June 1990 a request is made to the trustees of Mr Ws OPS regarding the possible 
transfer of Mr Ws pension. It appears the request comes from Mr W himself in his 
capacity working at Phoenix.
A document titled Application Form Checklist says, Is the associate licensed to sell 
this product and recommend this/these fund(s). This is answered yes. And signed off 
by the branch administrator/secretary.
On 18 January 1991 Mr W completed a form titled Transfer Pension Account 
Members Application. The recommendation is to transfer the OPS to a Personal 
Pension with Phoenix. Mr W is noted as the sole agent and he signed as the 
associate processing the application. There is a second signature by the branch 
manager approximately a month later signing to say the above associate is licensed 
to write the class of business applied for. I have reviewed, and am satisfied with, the 
application.
A document titled Pension New Business Department  which is a form for new 
business has been handwritten and shows Mr W as the selling agent.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged that 
there wasnt much in the way of information regarding the reasons for transfer, transfer 
analysis and information about the risks of transfer etc that you would typically see in a 
Defined Benefit advice case. However, the evidence suggested Mr W had completed the 
transfer himself and that he had the relevant credentials as required by Phoenix to do so. 
And as the advice process had been conducted by himself  and there was no evidence of 
any advice by other individuals  regardless of the gaps in the documentation Mr W wouldve 
transferred in any event.
In response Mr W said that he was a relatively new employee and had no pensions training 
or knowledge and he was told to do it by a senior member of staff to get the commission. He 
says he believed his manager was acting in his best interests, but he now knows this not to 
be the case. He also said that he worked in life insurance and not pensions. He says the 
process was quick and no information about his circumstances was established by Phoenix.
Mr Ws representatives also argue that the timescales involved may have been too short for 
him to review his options thoroughly. And that as the investigator stated there wasnt any 
evidence Mr W had been informed of the risks involved. It argues that Phoenix had a duty to 
provide all the information to Mr W to make an informed choice and consider his 
circumstances and needs at the time of the advice and in the future. It says had Mr W been 
informed of the benefits he would lose out on he wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill set out the reasons I wont be upholding this complaint below.
The event complained about took place some thirty years ago and so it is now difficult to be 
certain of exactly what happened, and the evidence is incomplete. In situations such as this I 
have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities and what I think most likely 
occurred  based on the evidence we do have. 
The evidence from the time shows that Mr W was the selling agent on the pension transfer 
complained about. And that Mr W was licensed to sell Pension Products. So I think its likely 
Mr W had the requisite knowledge at the time to understand the characteristics of a transfer 
from an OPS into a Personal Pension. I dont dispute that Mr W may well have been 
encouraged to do so by his superiors and I also think its likely that the commission he would 
receive also acted as an incentive to transfer. However, ultimately, I think it was Mr Ws 
decision to transfer and I think he wouldve had enough knowledge to understand the risks 
involved in doing so.
Ive taken into account Mr Ws testimony that hed didnt have any pension knowledge and 
worked only in insurance. However, the evidence from the time doesnt support this and 
whilst I dont doubt Mr Ws recollections are honest, they are recollections from an event 
over thirty years ago and with the passage of time memories fade. And so I have placed 
more weight on the documented evidence from the time.
Mr Ws representatives have also argued that the timescales involved suggest Mr W didnt 
have time to consider his options thoroughly  and he lacked the relevant experience in any 
event. However, Mr W first wrote to his OPS asking for information about his plan in June 
1990. Its unlikely he did this on his first day in the job. The transfer didnt complete until 
January 1991 and it wasnt until December 1990 that the OPS was able to respond with the 
required information. So this suggests that Mr W had been in his position for a minimum of 
six months at the time he made his decision. I dont think the time period involved and Mr 
Ws possible lack of experience in the role are persuasive arguments given the evidence here.  
Mr Ws representatives have also argued that the sale was unsuitable as the documentation 
from the time shows Mr W wasnt informed about the risks involved and he hadnt been 
provided with all the information to make an informed choice about whether to transfer. 
However, I think this supports the argument that Mr W wasnt advised by Phoenix and he in 
fact carried out the transfer himself. There is quite a bit of documentation from the time, 
including application forms, illustrations and checklists, most if not all appear to have been 
completed by Mr W  but missing is information about his circumstances and needs, 
reasons for transfer and more in depth analysis of the transfer. This is likely because Mr W 
was completing his own paperwork and so didnt feel the need to complete an in-depth 
transfer file including his circumstances and requirements. 
On more than one form, other staff members of Phoenix have signed to say Mr W was 
licenced to sell Pension Products, and so I think Mr W wouldve had knowledge of the risks 
involved and particulars of the Pension transfer. I dont think the lack of this information on 
the file means that Mr W was without this knowledge. And I dont think its reasonable to 
conclude that Phoenix had a requirement to get another advisor to make sure Mr W was fully 
informed about the transfer. He was licensed to conduct this business and in essence sold 
the plan to himself, so I dont think the gaps in information here that may indicate an 
unsuitable sale are relevant.
Given the circumstances, the time that has passed and the lack of information about aspects 
of the transfer, its difficult to consider whether the transfer was suitable for Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time. But I dont think this is necessary given the evidence supports Mr 
W conducted his own transfer.
In conclusion, based on the evidence available, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
hold Phoenix responsible for the potential unsuitable transfer of Mr Ws OPS. 
As an aside Phoenix offered Mr W £200 for its poor complaint handling  Mr W is free to 
accept this if he hasnt already.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman