DRN-2297106
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim made against his car 
insurance policy. Mr K would like the claim removed from his insurance record.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
Mr K admits he gave his insurance details to a third party after they alleged, hed 
reversed into their vehicle. I appreciate Mr K has said he didnt see any damage to 
the vehicle and doubted anything had actually happened. And, that he only gave his 
details to avoid any unpleasantness, however this doesnt change the fact that he 
was accused of causing damage to a third partys car and he was aware of this 
incident.
Based on the strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr K should have made AXA 
aware of this incident. Had he done so, AXA would have been in a position to take 
down his version of events and assess/take pictures of his vehicle if necessary. As 
he didnt do this, AXA had no information available to it to defend the third partys 
claim.
AXA tried to contact Mr K by phone, text message and by email after it was 
contacted by the third party. I know Mr K has said he didnt receive these and I cant 
explain why that is, however Im satisfied AXA had Mr Ks correct mobile number and 
address on file, and these were used. Although AXA could have contacted Mr K by 
letter, Im not persuaded the fact it didnt do so means all details of the claim should 
be removed from Mr Ks record. Mr K was aware of the incident as explained above, 
and therefore this would have been correctly noted to his policy. AXA made several 
attempts to contact Mr K on the details he had provided, and I cant see he had given 
them any instructions at that point to only contact him by post.
Having received no contact from Mr K, AXA chose to settle the claim on the best 
possible terms after receiving a threat of court action from the third party. I dont think 
this was unreasonable and the terms and conditions of the policy allow AXA to do 
this. I realise Mr K thinks the cost attributed to the claim was high, however AXA 
wasnt in a position to dispute the damage caused, or challenge any other costs 
associated with the claim. 
AXA admits it failed to notify Mr K it had settled the claim, so it offered £100 
compensation for this. I think this is reasonable and reflects the inconvenience Mr K 
would have been caused by this. 
Mr K complains his insurance premiums have risen due to the fact this incident is 
recorded against his policy. As Ive explained above, I dont think AXA has acted 
incorrectly by recording this claim against Mr Ks policy. It has been unable to recover 
its costs and therefore it has acted reasonably in recording these against the claim. I 
wont therefore be asking it to take any further action here.
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman