DRN-3956625
The complaint
Miss U complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund over £29,000 she lost to 
an investment scam beginning in September 2021.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Miss U authorised the disputed payments she made to her crypto 
wallet/Wise account from her Santander account (where her funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer 7XFX from her crypto wallet). The payments were 
requested using her legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, and the 
starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in 
order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Miss U 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Its common ground that some of the payments Miss U made were unusual given that 
they did trigger Santanders fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked 
pending further enquiry  such as the £3,100 payment she made on 28 September 2021 
to her Ibinex wallet. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough 
in all the circumstances with its intervention.
When Santander spoke to Miss U, it said it provided a full and relevant warning, but 
unfortunately it hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording to show what 
questions were asked or what warnings were given. However, Miss U has been able to 
provide her recollections of what happened on the call. She says she told Santander that 
she was paying money to her trading company 7XFX, and that she was warned that 
trading in cryptocurrency was highly volatile. She said she understood this, and that 
Santander advised her that she might be being scammed, at which point it read her a 
fraud script.
Given the call recording is no longer available, I cant be sure that Santanders 
intervention went far enough. But even accepting this as the case, based on the 
evidence available (including Miss Us recollections and Santanders call notes) Im not 
persuaded any further questioning or scam warning would have ultimately uncovered the 
scam and prevented the loss in any event. Ill explain why.
Miss U says that Santander made her aware of the risks of cryptocurrency and that she 
might be being scammed, but continued with the payment regardless. Miss U also says 
she told Santander that the broker was reputable and that she had already researched 
them. I appreciate that an FCA warning has since been published about 7XFX. But this 
wasnt published until after Santander intervened, and I cant see that there was any 
other adverse information online about the broker at the relevant time. Miss U said she 
had already researched the broker and had only seen positive testimonials, which 
convinced her they were legitimate.
As a result, if Santander had asked to her carry out further research, or to check the FCA 
warning list for example, Im not persuaded she wouldve found anything that wouldve 
likely led her to believe she was being scammed. Indeed, she had already carried out 
her own research and didnt find anything negative. Santanders notes show that it 
warned her the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) did not match. It also strongly advised her 
not to proceed if she was being advised by a third party. But despite being aware of 
these risks, she still proceeded with the payment. 
Further, I note that Miss U said she spoke to Santander again when making the final 
scam payment of £8,500 on 5 November 2021. At this point, Miss U told the bank that 
the payment was for cosmetic surgery, as this is what the scammer had told her to say. 
So, even if Santander shouldve intervened on any further occasions, it seems unlikely 
that it wouldve received upfront and honest answers about the nature of the payments, 
given she was being coached in what to say by the scammer. 
Therefore, even if Santander could have carried out further checks and asked more 
probing questions, Im not persuaded this would have likely revealed Miss U was falling 
for a scam or ultimately prevented her loss. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look 
more closely into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of Miss Us loss 
in these circumstances, as it seems likely she would have continued to make the 
payments notwithstanding any intervention. As such, I dont consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Santander liable for failing to prevent the scam.
Despite this, Santander has nonetheless accepted liability for the payment of £1,020 
made on 24 September 2021, as it said it failed to intervene and provide an effective 
scam warning. However, it said it would only refund 50% of this payment on the basis of 
Miss Us contributory negligence. Given Im not persuaded an intervention would have 
likely prevented the scam in this case, I dont think Santander needs to offer anything 
over and above what it has already paid Miss U.
Santander is also under no obligation to refund the money to Miss U under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code only applies to 
transfers made to another person. In this instance, the faster payments were made to 
her own accounts, so the CRM Code would not apply to these transactions. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss U, and Im sorry to hear she 
has been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Santander liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman