DRN-1606387
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W jointly took out a mortgage with BOS in 1997. Around 10 months later they 
took out a regular premium MPPI policy in Mrs Ws sole name. The policy wouldve covered 
repayments on their mortgage if Mrs W couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost her 
job for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it wouldve been 
clear from the paperwork BOS used at the time that they had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought it wouldve provided a suitable benefit.
Mr and Mrs W disagree. They say they were told they had to take the policy or they wouldnt 
get the mortgage and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
BOS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice in taking out the policy. Mr 
and Mrs W say this wasnt done but havent provided much detail about what was said to 
make them think this. Given the length of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Mr and Mrs W 
to have a detailed recollection of what was discussed. So Ive relied more on what the 
documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
MPPI was taken out in Mrs Ws sole name a few months after Mr and Mrs W took out their 
joint mortgage. BOS have given us a copy of the application form Mrs W completed. I think 
its pretty clear that the application form relates to MPPI and as Mr and Mrs W already had a 
mortgage in place I think they wouldve understood they didnt need to take out the policy to 
get a mortgage and that MPPI was a separate product - especially because the application 
for MPPI was made by Mrs W alone and taken in her sole name. If MPPI was mandatory to 
have a mortgage I wouldve expected cover to be taken for Mr W to.
Ive also seen a letter from Mrs W requesting that the direct debit payments for the policy to 
be taken along with the mortgage payment. So I think it was clear to Mr and Mrs W they had 
a choice in taking out the policy and I think Mrs W signed and completed the MPPI application form because they wanted the cover for her income. 
To be fair to Mr and Mrs W I am going to treat the sale of MPPI as if it was an advised sale. 
What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs W could make an informed choice about buying 
MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend MPPI that the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for them for the following reasons:
Mrs W was eligible for cover and it doesnt look like she would have been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs W say Mrs W was entitled to some sick pay and 
they had savings they could use to make their repayments if Mrs W couldnt work. 
But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay and 
savings and for potentially longer covering Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage payments for 
up to 12 months if Mrs W was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if she 
lost her job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it  which I 
can see Mrs W did over the phone four years after taking it out. 
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs W information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I can see the costs were clear from the MPPI application but I dont know if BOS gave all the 
information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based 
on what Mr and Mrs W have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they 
wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information at the 
time of sale.
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
 
But BOS will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W because:
When the policy was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W 
about that. Because BOS didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman