DRN-3063018
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK PLC has treated him unfairly in regard to his dispute 
about the purchase of two suits.
  
What happened
In May 2018 Mr H paid £1988 for two tailored suits to be made for him using his Santander 
Credit Card. He says he needed the suits for a family wedding and that he explained that to 
the Tailors making the suits. He says he entered the contract on the basis that the Tailors 
told him they would deliver by the wedding.
Mr H booked an appointment with the Tailors for the 26 June 2018 for the collection and 
fitting of the suits, which he says he thought were being made locally. In early August 2018 I 
can see an email from the Tailors to say that strike action abroad where the suits were being 
made was causing delay to their supply. Mr H was unhappy regarding the state of affairs as 
he was approaching the wedding and felt he wasnt getting anywhere with the Tailors, so in 
August 2018 he contacted Santander for help with his dispute. In October 2018 I can see he 
told Santander that the Tailors were now saying his suits were available to be collected or 
delivered. But by now hed had to buy a suit elsewhere because the wedding had happened.
Santander said the money had been paid to Company A and not the Tailors (the suppliers of 
the suits) and that as such the required relationship between the parties set out in S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 wasnt in place (often referred to as the DCS relationship). And 
accordingly Santander said it wasnt liable for the suits not being delivered on time and 
wasnt going to refund him what he paid for them.
However it paid him £50 for customer service issues and offered a further £50 for related 
issues.
Mr H feels this is unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator agreed 
with Mr H and said that Santander should refund him the £1988 and rework his now closed 
credit card account as if the transaction had been refunded immediately. The Investigator in 
their discussions with Santander pointed to previous contact this service has had with 
Santander on the issue of the DCS relationship. Santander also referred to case law in its 
arguments including what is known as the Truman case. Amongst a number of arguments 
Santander said that:
The processing, holding and treatment of the funds between (Company A) and the supplier 
(the Tailors) firmly takes the various transactions outside of being a singular arrangement 
between the merchant, creditor and customer. We therefore believe that the arrangement 
has become too tenuous as described in Truman and the DCS chain has been broken. 
In essence Santander said that the requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and 
following case law were not met and accordingly Santander cannot be held responsible 
under this legislation for the loss Mr H has suffered.
In July of this year I issued a provisional decision explaining my position and that my thinking 
at that time was that the DCS chain hadnt been broken and Santander were liable for the 
loss suffered. So I provisionally decided the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr H responded that he had nothing further to add to my provisional findings.
Santander has offered to pay the full claim amount of £1,988.00 and 8% annual simple 
interest on the transaction amount, from the transaction date until the settlement date. It has 
done this on an entirely goodwill basis and doesnt agree with my rationale. I shall address 
its key arguments as I see them in this decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind Santanders offer made after my provisional decision is the same as the 
award I made in my provisional decision I do not propose to comment again on the minutiae 
of this complaint. I find that its offer is a fair and reasonable settlement to this dispute and 
will direct to pay such later in this decision. However I do think there are some important 
issues at hand here and I shall accordingly address those and Santanders comments 
thereon.
Chargeback
Santander has helpfully added some clarity to what actually happened within the issue of 
Chargeback in this case. And Im grateful for that clarity. And I note that it seems clear at 
least some delay in this issue wasnt Santanders fault. And bearing in mind Santanders 
comments on this matter and its overarching position on this complaint I see little to be 
gained by reconsidering the Chargeback issue. But again note my thanks to Santander for 
its clarification.
The Liability Issue
Santander hasnt made any comments with regard to its position on whether the contract 
was breached or misrepresented. It has offered the full redress that I provisionally put 
forward, so I see no need here to repeat all the arguments I made in my provisional decision 
here. Other than to note, of course, that I was satisfied on balance that there was a liability 
for this amount here.
I shall now quote in full what I said in my provisional decision regarding S75 and the DCS 
relationship (indented and italicised).
s75 and the DCS relationship 
Here I must consider what Santander should do. To do this, I have to decide what I think is 
fair and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things, any relevant law. In this case, 
the relevant law is s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain 
circumstances, if Mr H paid for goods or services on his credit card and there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (the Tailors here) Santander can be held 
responsible. I appreciate that Santander is aware of this, but these are important matters and 
I think some background here helps provide context to my conclusions on this matter. And I 
appreciate some of the phraseology and history here are familiar to Santander, but I think 
consistency and context here are helpful.Historically credit cards worked within a commonplace three-party structure. Specifically that 
there was:
an agreement between the card issuer (the creditor) and the cardholder (the debtor) 
to extend credit by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer and the supplier under which the supplier 
agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase of goods or 
services.
And accordingly this three-way relationship is often referred to as DCS as it represents the 
interrelationships between Debtor, Creditor and Supplier.
As time went by a new type of party entered the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party 
relationships where instead of the agreement being between the card issuer and the supplier, 
there were two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer undertook to 
reimburse the merchant acquirer.
The impact of this development on the application of s75 was considered by the Court of 
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case). The 
Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure meant that 
the system had evolved significantly beyond the state of affairs to which s75 had been 
directed. They concluded that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification for drawing a 
distinction between the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of 
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate under both three-party and four-party 
structures, the customer has no means of knowing whether any given transaction is 
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card issuer 
and the supplier the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same: each 
benefits from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it possible to regard them as 
involved in something akin to a joint venture, just as much as in the case of the three-party 
structure.
 They went on to say;
It is clear that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party 
structure, the purpose of the credit agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases the card issuer finances the transaction 
between the customer and the supplier by making credit available at the point of purchase in 
accordance with the credit agreement. The fact that it does so through the medium of an 
agreement with the merchant acquirer does not detract from that because it is the card 
issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial basis for the 
transaction with the supplier.
Bearing in mind some of Santanders arguments here in this case its also important to note 
that in the OFT case the court saw evidence about the particular rules governing the activities 
of merchant acquirers. The Judge at first instance drew attention to the following features 
(paragraph 30) which I think have relevance here:
The evidence showed that the rules of the four-party card schemes control which suppliers 
may participate in the schemes by, for example, (i) stipulating that merchant acquirers must 
only put transaction details into interchange for suppliers with whom they have valid and subsisting merchant acquirer agreements; (ii) requiring merchant acquirers to screen 
suppliers before entering into agreements with them, in order to establish that the suppliers 
are creditworthy and carrying on bona fide businesses; (iii) requiring merchant acquirers to 
monitor suppliers to deter wrongful activity; (iv) requiring merchant acquirers to forward 
information to the network merchant databases where, for example, a supplier is suspected of 
fraud or where a supplier's ratio of transactions charged back by the card issuer exceeds
established criteria. Likewise card issuing creditors exert leverage over suppliers, through the 
networks [operated by MasterCard, Visa and American Express], in that the networks reserve 
rights to insist that suppliers' merchant acquirer agreements are terminated and to exclude 
suppliers from entering into merchant acquirer agreements. Thus some sort of leverage is 
available, at least in domestic four-party transactions, but even if it were not, that would not 
affect my conclusion.
Having provided some important context to the circumstances in Mr Hs case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of Company As role and involvement. And whether or not that 
meant that there were the relevant arrangements between Santander and the Tailors under 
which Mr Hs purchase was financed, and therefore whether or not there was the DCS link. 
This is a key part of this complaint. I say this because in many cases where there is a DCS 
link established the focus of the complaint is actually whether or not there was a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. But Santander hasnt made any 
persuasive arguments on whether or not there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
here by the supplier (the Tailors). It has pointed to a lack of evidence around the precise 
terms of the contract agreed but it hasnt made persuasive arguments around whether there 
has been a breach or a misrepresentation here. It has largely and extensively argued that 
there is no DCS. But clearly Mr H entered into a contract to purchase these suits and they 
were not delivered within what he says was the agreement made.
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Hs case. In order for s75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements between Santander and the supplier (the Tailor) to finance 
transactions between Santanders cardholders and the supplier. Its clear that there was no 
direct arrangement between them, but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of s75.
I say this because the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed relevant arrangements between creditors and suppliers in the four-party 
situation. She said that the use of the word showed a deliberate intention on the part of the 
draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be contrasted with the word 
agreement. She went on to say at paragraph 26:
In my judgment, in the natural ordinary sense of the word, there are clearly arrangements in 
place made between the card issuers and the suppliers, notwithstanding the absence of any 
direct communication between them, or any direct contractual relationship, or even of 
knowledge on the part of the issuer of the identity of the particular supplier. The fact that there 
are a number of different arrangements, reflecting the various roles, contractual or otherwise, 
played by different participants in the network, does not mean that there is not an 
arrangement in place between the issuer and the supplier. I consider that it is unrealistic to 
look merely at the individual links in the chain; rather one should stand back and look at the 
whole network of arrangements that are involved in the operation of the schemes. If one does 
so, one can, in my judgment, properly conclude that, by virtue of the supplier and the issuer 
being subject to the rules and settlement processes common to all participants in the card 
network, there is indeed an arrangement (albeit indirect) between them.
In the Court of Appeal, the creditors argued that arrangements should be given a narrower 
meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of Appeal 
agreed with the Judge that arrangements had been used to embrace a wide range of 
commercial structures having substantially the same effect. They held it was difficult to resist 
the conclusion that such arrangements existed between credit card issuers and suppliers who 
agreed to accept their cards, and stated;Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that Parliament would have been willing to allow some 
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other 
consumers were protected because the relevant arrangements were direct.
Accordingly to arrive at a fair outcome I need to stand back and consider the whole network of 
arrangements that were involved in Mr Hs transaction and, in particular, what Company As 
role was within that network.
From what I can see Santander use (the Card Scheme company) as its card scheme. So Ive 
considered (the Card Scheme) rules regarding the scheme it operates. I note from its rules 
from around the time it recognises a number of different types of service providers including 
those described as Third Party Processors and Payment Facilitators and it then goes on to 
give examples of the types of services the different service providers provide and 
requirements the scheme has of them.
Santander has pointed to Company As involvement on the matter. It says its participation in 
what happened here broke the DCS chain of relationships. It points to Company As terms 
and conditions and specifically makes the following observations about them:
that they provide for the deduction of fees from the payment before it is transferred to 
the suppliers account
that they provide for the funds to be held in (Company A)s client account for varying 
periods before it is transferred onward to the supplier:
stipulate that transfer to the suppliers account is by a third party for whom (Company 
A) is not responsible:
So I need to decide whether Company As role and involvement interfered with what appears 
to have been the usual underlying four-party structure in a way that meant the relevant 
creditor-supplier arrangements didnt exist in this case. I dont think its role and involvement 
caused an interference for the following reasons.
Company A describes itself in the following terms:
As a credit institution we facilitate the processing of payment transactions and, in order for us 
to do this, we have entered into agreements with acquiring banks (Acquirers"). A list of the 
Acquirers we co-operate with for the provisioning of the Payment Service from time to time 
can be found here.
So having considered this and the rest of the terms and conditions Im satisfied that it acts as 
a payment facilitator. The fees to which Santander allude arent directly applied to the 
consumer but rather are between it and those that use its services such as suppliers. So I 
dont think that makes a difference. Nor does the ability to hold funds makes a difference to 
my mind or use of third parties either. As Ive quoted already this is all within a commercial 
arrangement with which all parties benefit.
Furthermore having considered (the Card Scheme)s rules I note that it says that acquirers 
are responsible for all acts and omissions of other parties they have arrangements with such 
as Payment Facilitators and sub merchants. Having seen this and considered the rules as a 
whole it seems clear that in the situation that Santander describe Mr Hs transaction to be, it 
seems clear that Company A act as an agent for any merchant acquirer involved. Plus it is 
clear that as part of the scheme rules the Merchant Acquirer can only act in such transactions 
under the scheme whilst it meets the scheme rules which include it being responsible for the 
activities of facilitators and sub-merchants. So clearly there is an arrangement between these 
parties in this part of the transaction.
In short, it appears that Company A operated a formal and structured system which enabled 
parties, such as the Tailors in this case, to receive payments made by credit card to pay for 
the supply of goods and services to the cardholders such as Mr H. Further, both Santander 
and the supplier were bound to the same network rules through the arrangements here. 
These features are all consistent with the existence of the required arrangements, for the 
purposes of s.75, between Santander and the supplier (the Tailors).I would also note that both Santander and the Tailors undoubtedly benefit commercially from 
the involvement of the other, through the intermediation of Company A, in a way that makes it 
possible to regard them all as in something akin to a joint venture. Specifically, by financing 
purchases from the supplier Santander are able to lend money to their customer and make 
interest and/or other charges for that service, whilst the Tailors is able to obtain payments 
from Santanders credit card holders and so benefit from the credit Santander extended 
(albeit indirectly).
Furthermore, not every commercial entity accepts (this particular Card schemes) cards. So 
where a supplier such as the Tailors here does agree to accept (this card scheme) that 
results in Santander providing restricted use credit, regardless of whether Santander has a 
direct agreement with the supplier or not. Taking this into account and looking at the 
principles outlined in the OFT case and what we know of the situation here, it seems to me 
that Santander provided finance to Mr H which enabled him, through the medium of the 
suppliers account with Company A, to pay for goods from the supplier. The purpose of the 
credit agreement between Santander and Mr H is to give him the means to pay for goods and 
services, which is what he did when he paid the supplier. So, following the reasoning in the 
OFT case, Santander financed that transaction by making credit available to Mr H at the point 
of purchase in accordance with his credit agreement.
Santander has argued that Mr Hs relationship here is too tenuous for S75 to apply. The High 
Court considered s75 in the case of Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland v Alfred 
Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman case) the High Court held that its the nature 
of the role that each party plays and the nexus between the supplier and creditor thats the 
relevant consideration. I do not propose to recount all the details of the case here. However I 
would note the following. In the Truman case it involved the court considering a five-party 
structure in which the fifth party, had no contractual or other direct relationship with the 
relevant scheme. But it was held that it did not matter that the card issuers had no direct 
contractual or other relationship with the fifth party or that the card issuers had no idea of the 
existence of the fifth party. There still existed arrangements sufficient for the requisite DCS 
link.
In Mr Hs case, I think there are stronger indications of relevant arrangements than those in 
the Truman case given that Company A was specifically and publicly in the business of 
processing or facilitating payments. This is the nature of the commercial enterprise it is, and it 
describes itself and advertises itself as such.
So, in Mr Hs case the creditors issuing cards within the (this Card Schemes) network, (that is 
Santander here) would seem in a stronger position both to know about the activities of the 
Company A than the card issuers were in the Truman case, whilst the (the Card Scheme) 
network itself was well placed to decide whether it would permit Company A to carry on that 
business in relation to its cards and to influence the terms on which it could do so. I therefore 
dont consider the arrangements to be more tenuous than those examined by the court in the 
Truman case, but rather the opposite.
Santander has said:
The processing, holding and treatment of the funds between (Company A) and the merchant 
firmly takes the various transactions outside of being a singular arrangement between the 
merchant, creditor and customer. We therefore believe that the arrangement has become 
too tenuous as described in Truman and the DCS chain has been broken.
Clearly as Ive described in this case and evident in the case law quoted above the existence 
of one arrangement (or agreement) between two parties or more doesnt mean that there 
arent arrangements between parties who are further apart in the broader transaction. 
Clearly there is an arrangement between the network here and Santander and also between 
the Tailors and Company A. It does not follow because of these that there arent 
arrangements between Santander and the Supplier here. Clearly in such circumstances there are sub-arrangements if you will, that go together to create the arrangement here. As 
the Judge of first instance said:
The fact that there are a number of different arrangements, reflecting the various roles, 
contractual or otherwise, played by different participants in the network, does not mean that 
there is not an arrangement in place between the issuer and the supplier.
So I think Santanders rationale is flawed and contrary to the position of the Judge of First 
Instance which was later supported by the higher court. 
The judge decided in Truman that the situation there wasnt too tenuous. I think the situation 
here is less tenuous than Truman case for the reasons Ive given already. And Santanders 
argument that the presence of sub-arrangements (as Ive described them for clarity) is not 
only not persuasive to me but clearly not persuasive to the Judges in the cases Ive 
described.
For all of these reasons, my provisional conclusion is that there were arrangements
between Santander and the Tailors here through the intermediation of Company A for the 
various reasons Ive given. Meaning that the DCS chain of relationships is intact and is an 
arrangement and as such S75 applies here.
In response to my provisional decision Santander have made the following points on this 
matter. I shall deal with these in turn.
Too Tenuous
Santander does not agree with how widely I applied Truman and says that theyre relying 
on the arguments theyve made previously, and they consider this situation too tenuous to 
maintain the DCS link. I note its comments. However I disagree for a number of reasons. 
Firstly it ought to be remembered that the originating legislation here was enacted in order to 
provide added customer protection in certain circumstances and the matters at hand here 
should be considered through that lens. Secondly Im required to consider the law and Ive 
addressed what I see as the relevant case law accordingly. It is clear that the Court said the 
DCS chain should be considered intact where arrangements and other conditions were met 
unless the relationship at hand was too tenuous. Ive explained why I think this case is less 
tenuous than Truman and hence significantly short of the too tenuous tests bar. I do not 
see any persuasive counter arguments made to my rationale in my provisional decision 
being made in Santanders response to my provisional decision on this particular point. The 
provisional process I decided upon was in order to give Santander every and further 
opportunity to express in a case specific situation why it felt the findings of the Courts in 
similar situations (from a legal perspective) shouldnt apply here. It hasnt chosen to put 
forward argument or case law on this specific point but rather to say it doesnt agree but will 
offer the redress amount I set out on a goodwill basis. So I see no persuasive reason to 
change my position on the too tenuous point as I consider Ive already addressed the key 
arguments Santander has made here and it hasnt provided anything persuasive further.
Factually distinct from other cases
Santander has said other cases on such issues that this service have considered are 
factually distinct. I agree the facts of these cases are different. Nevertheless the legislation 
and following case law sets out parameters for considering the DCS link and without 
persuasive arguments to explain why such case law shouldnt be applied in this case and/or 
why my rationale shouldnt stand in this case then I see no reason to change my position.
EvidenceSantander has said We hope FOS will acknowledge that this is another example of where 
your service was able to obtain further information and documentation from the third party, 
which was not available to or provided to Santander previously. Of course, Santander is only 
able to assess complaints on a case by case basis in light of the documentation and facts 
available to us. 
I think Santander could have gathered this information. It is my position that should firms 
wish to contest liability under S75 due to the DCS chain not being intact, they would be well 
advised to gather evidence to support that position when they first arrive at that conclusion. 
In that way they would possess such evidence to be used as and when needed and would 
negate the risk of such evidence being lost by third parties whilst complaint processes both 
at the firm end (and indeed here or elsewhere) played out. And as the Courts have found the 
mere presence of another party is insufficient to break the DCS chain. It would, of course, be 
unusual if such firms expected complainants to find the evidence to prove the DCS link was 
or wasnt in place considering it is this DCS is broken argument that firms use to try and 
avoid liability to complainants complaints.
Santander say Truman is not a catch all to remove DCS considerations from the legal 
liability of the Bank in multiple party transactions.
Both the Court and I agree here. And Truman sets out that there is no catch all rule to be 
applied but rather cases should be considered on a case by case basis on the test it 
describes. And this service is dealing with such issues on a case by case basis. And in doing 
so is reliant on the evidence put forward, and that which is available. 
So having considered Santanders submissions here I am glad it has made an offer in line 
with my provisional decision albeit for different reasons. Its comments after my provisional 
decision are insufficient to persuade me that my provisional decision was unfair to uphold 
the complaint or to change my rationale. Accordingly I see no persuasive reason to change 
my position as articulated. So Mr Hs complaint is successful.
  
Putting things right
I direct Santander to pay the claim amount of £1,988.00 and 8% annual simple interest on 
that amount, from the transaction date until the settlement date.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Santander UK PLC and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman