DRN-4251357
The complaint
Mr P complains that Brighton Williams & Partners (BWP) failed to consider recommending 
an enhanced annuity or a drawdown arrangement when advising him on taking pension 
benefits in 2006. He says that the lifetime annuity he purchased was unsuitable for his needs 
and circumstances.
Mr P is represented in his complaint by a complaint management company (CMC). But Ill 
only refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr P had a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan with a provider Ill 
refer to as provider L. BWP said that this plan started in 1991. And that it wasnt the original 
selling or advising agents. Mr P also had a stakeholder pension plan with a provider Ill refer 
to as provider S. He also had a capped drawdown plan - with a provider Ill call provider G  
from July 2001, from which he took regular income. 
At the point of the 2006 advice this complaint is about, Mr P had been taking advice from 
BWP about his pension arrangements for a number of years. 
Mr P met with a BWP adviser in November 2005. The handwritten meeting notes dated 15 
November 2005 showed that his circumstances were as follows:
- Mr P had no income at the time and had been drawing on his limited savings. He did 
have a mortgage redundancy cover plan which would cover his monthly mortgage 
payments. 
- He was hopeful, but not certain, of becoming employed soon. But needed income 
from his pension until his job situation was clear, as his funds were running low. He 
intended to replace his pension monies once the job situation was resolved.
- He was in good health.
BWP suggested Mr P could increase his withdrawal from provider S by approximately 
£4,000, switch it to provider G, and then take a maximum withdrawal of around £6,400 from 
provider G. It also said he could take a tax-free cash (TFC) sum of around £7,000 from 
protected rights in April 2006. 
The handwritten note recorded that Mr P felt that: this was the most appropriate course of 
action and would give him some breathing space. 
In February 2006, provider L wrote to Mr P about his FSAVC plan. It said that as he was now 
within six weeks of his selected retirement date, it was required to provide an estimated 
Open Market Option (OMO) value. It said this was £7,941.98 as of 13 February 2006. It also 
said that Mr P didnt have to buy his annuity with it.
Mr P sent a copy of provider Ls February 2006 letter to BWP on 21 February 2006. He also 
noted his address had changed.
BWPs adviser wrote to Mr P on 18 May 2006. He said that the current transfer value for the 
pension with provider L was £8,231. And that when this was added to the transfer value of 
around £4,735 from the pension with provider S, the two would provide a TFC sum of around 
£3,240. 
The letter also said that due to the low nature of the funds, an annuity would have to be 
purchased, rather than adding the transferred funds to the existing drawdown arrangement 
with provider G. And asked Mr P how he wanted to proceed.
Mr P replied to BWP on 21 May 2006. He asked it to arrange the TFC sum and to set up 
annuities for the provider L and the provider S pensions. 
Provider L sent BWP a retirement pack for Mr P dated 18 July 2006. This gave a number of 
annuity options, which included Option 2a - single life annuity with the maximum TFC sum 
and Option 3a and 3b  options to buy an annuity using the Open Market Option (OMO).
BWP sent Mr P a letter on 19 July 2006 to outline its recommendation about the provider S 
pension as follows:
As Mr P wanted to generate cash from his pensions, the letter noted that hed agreed 
to take the maximum TFC sum allowed. And to use the remaining fund to buy an 
annuity.
Mr P didnt have to buy the annuity from his provider S. But BWP said that in view of 
the small fund, and having reviewed provider Ss illustrations, the OMO wouldnt be 
considered.  
The total fund value was £4,698.45. Mr P would take £1,174.61 from this as TFC.
There were various options of how the annuity could be set up. It explained what Mr 
P had to do when hed made his choice.
It said that the annuity couldnt be changed after it was set up. And that on Mr Ps 
death, the benefits would be those hed chosen at the outset. It also said that if Mr P 
chose a level annuity, he should be aware that the value of the payments would be 
eroded by inflation.
Several other options were available to Mr P. These included a Short-Term Annuity 
and an Annuity Protection Lump Sum Death Benefit. The letter explained how both 
worked.
In view of the small amount, it was decided hed take an annuity with the provider. Mr 
P was asked to confirm his choice of annuity
The drawdown option was considered but due to the small amount and Mr Ps 
circumstances, the option was considered as not applicable.
BWP asked Mr P to sign and return a copy of the letter to confirm his understanding and 
agreement to the comments made, and receipt of Keyfacts about our services, the Terms 
of Business, Keyfacts about the cost of our services, and product Key Features. It said 
these had all been provided to him at its November 2005 meeting with him. 
The letter also noted that it would deal with Mr Ps pension benefits from provider L at its 
next meeting with him on 27 July 2006, by which time it hoped to have received information 
about its benefits. Mr P completed a retirement options review and questionnaire on 27 July 2006. This stated: 
- Mr P was a non-smoker, in good health. There were no possible known future 
changes to his health.
- He was working part time. And earning £12,000 a year. He needed to supplement his 
income.
- His wife wasnt in good health and wasnt employed. 
- They had a total monthly income of £1,000 and expenditure of £800.
- They needed immediate income at the maximum level.
- Mr P wanted to move to a pension drawdown and was willing to accept a reasonable 
level of risk.
The handwritten meeting notes for the 27 July 2006 meeting recorded that Mr P had recently 
moved house. And that this had released some capital. This had been invested in liquid 
assets. But it was noted that as Mr Ps job was only part time, he still had an income 
shortfall. 
The note also said that Mr P wanted to maximise his income and take the maximum TFC 
available from his pension with provider S, as he needed the money now. And to move the 
remainder to his existing drawdown policy with provider G. The adviser agreed to investigate 
whether this was possible.
The note also said that Mr P had again confirmed he wanted to proceed with provider S and 
provider L annuities. And that the adviser had explained that he wouldnt be considering the 
OMO due to the small fund size. The note recorded that Mr P was: OK with this.
BWP made a further note about its call with Mr P on 1 August 2006. This recorded that hed 
confirmed he needed the maximum income. 
BWP sent Mr P a letter on 7 August 2006, enclosing the illustration in respect of his pension 
with provider L. The letter stated: You have confirmed that as with your [provider S] monies 
you wish to proceed with the purchase of an annuity with a tax free lump sum. It also said 
that it believed option 2a was the applicable option. This option was for an annual single life 
pension of £347.28 payable monthly in advance, guaranteed 5 years, with a TFC sum of 
£1,983.37. 
BWP said that if this was the correct option for Mr P, he should complete the payment 
instruction form accordingly. But that if he wanted to include a spouses pension, he should 
choose Option 2b. 
The letter also referred to the recommendation the adviser said hed made in his letter dated 
19 July 2006. It said this included the reasons why the annuity was going to be set up. And 
alternative options that were available for the provider L monies. It asked Mr P to sign and 
return the attached copy of the letter to confirm his understanding and agreement to the 
comments made. It also noted that a number of product and service documents had been 
included for Mr P to read and acknowledge. 
On 9 August 2006, Mr P told BWP he wanted to take Option 2a with provider L. And on 25 
August 2006, Mr P told BWP: You have appeared to [have] covered all of my requirements 
exactly as I have requested. On 20 September 2006, provider L wrote to BWP. It said that Mr Ps annuity was now in 
payment. It noted that the full fund had been £7,977.77. And that an annual single life level 
annuity of £348.60, payable monthly in advance and guaranteed for five years had been set 
up. With a TFC sum of £1,994.44 also being paid. 
Mr P complained to BWP, through his CMC, on 5 October 2022. He thought the provider L 
annuity had been mis-sold. And that he shouldve been advised to take out an enhanced 
annuity instead as he had a number of medical conditions and was an ex-smoker. He also 
said that BWP hadnt advised him to consider the OMO, to ensure that he was offered the 
best annuity rate. 
BWP issued its final response to the complaint on 17 October 2022. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said that both the OMO and the potential for an enhanced impaired 
health annuity were considered. But that the relatively low size of the fund available to buy 
the was well below the minimum accepted. It also said that it had provided Mr P with full 
details of all the annuity options, including the OMO in its 7 August 2006 letter.
Mr P didnt agree with BWPs response. So he brought his complaint to this service through 
his CMC in January 2023. 
Mr P made an amendment to his initial complaint to BWP, through his CMC, on 8 March 
2023. He felt that BWP hadnt advised him that he couldve invested his fund in a standard 
investment while still taking an income under a flexi-access drawdown arrangement. He felt 
that such an arrangement wouldve been more suited to his needs compared to the annuity it 
had advised him to take.
Mr P also felt that BWPs advice shouldve considered the impact of inflation on his level 
annuity. And that given how low annuity rates had been at the time of the advice, he 
shouldnt have been advised to take one out. Mr P also felt that hed forfeited the potential 
death benefits available under his existing arrangements. And that BWP hadnt adequately 
explained this to him.
BWP issued a further final response letter to the amended complaint on 22 March 2023. It 
still didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that a flexi-access drawdown wasnt 
available until 2015. It also said that it did consider adding the funds to Mr Ps existing 
drawdown plan with provider G. But that this wasnt an option due to the low fund value. It 
said Mr P was aware of this. BWP also said that given the low fund value, the only real 
option had been to take an annuity with provider L. And that Mr P had decided to go for this 
as it provided the highest income from the start. 
In April 2023, our investigator considered whether the complaint had been brought to this 
service in time. Mr P said he wasnt previously aware he could complain. But that he saw 
something on the internet which prompted him to instruct someone to look into the annuity.
BWP said Mr P had signed a Letter of Authority (LOA) relating to pension advice for a 
different CMC from the one who was representing him now on 20 March 2020. It felt that this 
showed that Mr P had considered the suitability of his pension annuity before his complaint 
in 2022. 
Our investigator felt that Mr Ps complaint had come to this service on 29 September 2022, 
which was within three years of him becoming aware of any issues in March 2020. BWP 
agreed with our investigator. And said it understood that she would now investigate the 
merits of Mr Ps complaint.
Our investigator felt that BWP hadnt addressed the forfeited death benefits aspect of the updated complaint. She said that Mr P felt that hed forfeited any death benefits that were 
available under his existing arrangements and such benefits wouldve been likely to reduce 
his annuity rate, but this BWP hadnt adequately explained this. She asked BWP to comment 
on this point. 
BWP said that at the time of the advice, Mr Ps objective had been to take income from his 
pension to top up his part time earnings. Hed reached retirement age under the provider L 
plan. It said that while he did have the option to defer taking his benefits, this wouldnt have 
achieved his objective. And that the only other option offered by the provider L plan was to 
purchase an annuity. It said that all of Mr Ps other pension benefits were in capped 
drawdown with the associated death benefits available. BWP also said that most annuity 
providers hadnt offered terms on such a low purchase price at the time.
Mr Ps CMC said that Mr P wouldve had access to capped drawdown if he hadnt opted to 
take an annuity. And this wouldve provided his beneficiaries access to death benefits on any 
residual funds. It said that BWP had assessed whether this pension couldve been 
transferred to Mr Ps existing capped drawdown arrangement with provider G, but that the 
transfer value was too low. But it said that the adviser couldve assessed other providers 
who would accept the funds.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that 
BWP hadnt considered Mr Ps health at the time of the advice. She said the adviser had a 
responsibility to ensure that his recommendation was suitable for Mr Ps circumstances. And 
she felt that BWPs advice had been suitable. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points through his CMC:
He didnt consider the fact that hed completed an Enhanced Annuity Medical 
Questionnaire in 2001 to be relevant to this complaint. He didnt feel he should be 
expected to have remembered completing this. Mr P felt that BWP hadnt adequately 
assessed his circumstances and therefore its advice had been negligent.
Mr P felt that BWPs comments that an enhanced annuity hadnt been an option 
because the majority of providers wouldnt have offered it due to the low fund value 
showed that it hadnt looked into whether he couldve obtained an enhanced annuity 
from somewhere given his health conditions. He said hed had a health issue at the 
time of the advice that wouldve meant he was eligible for an enhanced annuity.
He also felt that BWP hadnt reviewed the whole market to see whether or not a new 
capped drawdown with a different provider couldve been set up. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for largely the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know my decision will be disappointing. Ill explain the reasons for it.
I first considered the regulation that BWP needed to follow when it advised Mr P in late 
2005/2006. 
Regulation at the time of the adviceThe regulator set out its Conduct of Business (COB) rules in its handbook. COB 5.3.5(1) 
said that the advice had to be suitable. But didnt define suitability. But it was generally 
understood that suitability meant ensuring that the advice met the consumers demands and 
needs, based on an analysis of their circumstances at the time. 
COB 5.3.5(3) explicitly referred to the need to base advice on the facts disclosed by the 
client and other relevant facts of which the business reasonably should be aware. And COB 
5.3.14 and 16 said that the suitability letter should take into account the consumers personal 
and financial circumstances. 
So BWP had a responsibility to ensure its recommendation was suitable for Mr Ps 
objectives and circumstances at the time of the advice.
In Mr Ps original complaint, he felt that the provider L annuity had been mis-sold. And that 
he shouldve been advised to take out an enhanced annuity instead. He had a number of 
medical conditions and was an ex-smoker. He also doesnt think that BWP advised him to 
consider the OMO. 
Ive considered these complaints within the regulatory framework at the time. Ive first 
considered whether Mr P shouldve been advised to take out an enhanced annuity instead of 
the provider L annuity. 
Should BWP have recommended an enhanced annuity?
BWP said it had considered the possibility of an enhanced annuity at the time of the advice. 
But that it hadnt completed a medical questionnaire to assess Mr Ps eligibility for an 
enhanced annuity as it considered the funds available were well below the minimum 
accepted. 
BWP said that majority of annuity providers wouldnt have offered terms on such a low 
purchase price. And that it had discussed this with Mr P, whod then decided to take the 
annuity offered by provider L. It also said that Mr P was aware of the enhanced annuity 
option, as hed completed an enhanced annuity questionnaire in 2001.
Mr P didnt feel he should be expected to have remembered completing an enhanced 
annuity questionnaire five years before the 2006 advice. And that BWP hadnt adequately 
assessed his circumstances. Therefore he felt its advice had been negligent.
I can understand why Mr P doesnt think his completion of a form in 2001 is directly relevant 
to the advice in 2006. I agree that I wouldnt necessarily expect him to remember having 
done so five years later. 
But from what Ive seen, BWP did consider Mr Ps personal and financial circumstances at 
the time of the advice, including his health. I say this because the evidence shows that Mr 
Ps health was discussed in both 2005 and 2006. Both the meeting note from November 
2005, and the retirement options review and questionnaire from July 2006 recorded that Mr 
P was in good health. And the July 2006 questionnaire recorded that he was a non-smoker, 
with no possible known future changes to his health. Ive seen no evidence that Mr P told 
BWP at the time of the advice that he had health conditions, or was a former smoker.
Therefore I consider that BWP did consider Mr Ps health at the time of the advice. And 
nothing Mr P told it at the time indicated that he mightve been eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. And while BWP didnt complete a medical questionnaire at the time of the advice, 
Im satisfied that it did enough to establish Mr Ps state of health and therefore his possible 
eligibility for an enhanced annuity. Im also not persuaded, given the lack of enhanced annuity providers in the market for small funds at the time, that Mr P wouldve been able to 
secure an enhanced annuity with such a small fund, even if a his health had been assessed 
through a medical questionnaire. 
I next considered whether BWP advised him to consider the OMO.
Did BWP advise Mr P to consider the OMO?
Mr P doesnt consider that BWP advised him to consider the OMO.
The February 2006 letter from provider L provided an estimated OMO value. And said that 
Mr P didnt have to buy his annuity with it.
The 18 July 2006 retirement pack for Mr P from provider L included a number of annuity 
options. Option 3a and 3b were options to buy an annuity using the OMO.
Page 10 of this pack explain what the OMO was. It said the following:
You do not have to buy your pension with [provider L], and you are free to choose to buy 
your benefits with another pension provider. This is called the Open Market Option. We will, 
at your request, pay the Open Market Option to any approved UK pension provider. This 
value Is shown on your illustration and Is the same whoever you decide to buy your benefits 
with.
Different pension providers can offer different types of annuity to suit individual 
circumstances. Not all pension providers offer the best rates in all instances, and by 
choosing a different provider you may be able to buy a bigger income.
The handwritten meeting notes from 27 July 2006 stated that the adviser had explained that 
he wouldnt be considering the OMO due to the small fund size. And said that Mr P had 
been: OK with this.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that BWP provided Mr P with sufficient information for him 
to have considered the OMO. So I dont agree that BWP had failed to advise him on this 
point.
I next considered whether the annuity with provider L had been mis-sold.
Was the annuity with provider L mis-sold?
Mr P thinks that his annuity with provider L was mis-sold. In his follow-up complaint to BWP, 
he also said that it shouldve considered, and adequately explained to him, the impact of 
inflation on the level annuity he purchased. And that given how low annuity rates had been 
at the time of the advice, he shouldnt have been advised to take one out. 
From what Ive seen, BWP had carried out periodic reviews with Mr P about the level of 
income he needed and the possibility of varying this to suit his needs from at least 2001. And 
when Mr P met with BWP in November 2005, it noted that Mr P had no income at the time. 
So it suggested steps he could take to increase his income to match his needs. 
Mr P considered BWPs recommendation, and his response to it was recorded in a note at 
the time as: this was the most appropriate course of action and would give him some 
breathing space. 
The July 2006 meeting note also recorded that Mr P wanted to maximise his income. And that he: needed the money now. BWP also spoke to Mr P on 1 August 2006. The phone 
note recorded that hed confirmed he needed the maximum income. 
BWP then reconfirmed with Mr P what option he wanted to take. And sent him a number of 
documents to confirm his understanding and agreement to the option hed chosen. Mr P 
confirmed the option he wanted to take on 9 August 2006. And told BWP on 25 August 
2006: You have appeared to [have] covered all of my requirements exactly as I have 
requested. 
Regarding Mr Ps complaint about the impact of inflation, BWPs 19 July 2006 letter to Mr P 
stated that the annuity couldnt be changed after it was set up. And that if Mr P chose a level 
annuity, he should be aware that the value of the payments would be eroded by inflation. It 
also noted that Mr P wouldnt be able to change his income once the annuity was set up. 
Given this, Im satisfied that BWP did adequately explain the impact of buying a level annuity 
at the time of the advice. I also consider that, as Mr P needed to maximise his income at the 
time, it was reasonable for him to opt for a level annuity. This would provide a higher starting 
pension than an increasing pension. So was better suited to meet his stated objectives at the 
time. 
Regarding Mr Ps complaint about the low annuity rates at the time of the advice, Im not 
persuaded that BWP couldve known that rates would improve. And Im satisfied that buying 
an annuity after taking the maximum TFC sum was a suitable option for Mr P given his 
circumstances at the time. 
Therefore Im satisfied that the annuity with provider L wasnt mis-sold. 
I next considered Mr Ps other additional complaint. He felt that hed forfeited the potential 
death benefits available under his existing arrangements. And that BWP hadnt adequately 
explained this to him.
Did BWP adequately explain the impact on death benefits?
Mr P felt that he mightve had access to capped drawdown at the time of the advice, which 
wouldve provided his beneficiaries with access to death benefits on any residual funds. 
BWP said it hadnt been possible to transfer funds to Mr Ps existing capped drawdown 
arrangement as the transfer value was too low. 
BWPs 19 July 2006 letter to Mr P stated that on his death, the benefits would be those hed 
chosen at the outset. This letter also explained that there were several other options 
available to Mr P. These included a Short-Term Annuity and an Annuity Protection Lump 
Sum Death Benefit. 
The letter said that a Short-Term annuity would allow Mr P to use all or part of his pension 
fund to buy a fixed term annuity lasting up to five years, with the rest of his fund remaining 
invested until another short-term annuity or lifetime annuity would be purchased. It also 
explained that the Annuity Protection Lump Sum Death Benefit was a way of ensuring that if 
Mr P died before age 75, his fund would be protected. 
Ive also not seen any documentary evidence which shows that it was important to Mr P that 
he preserve his existing death benefits. And Im satisfied that the 19 July 2006 letter 
explained options which wouldve better preserved Mr Ps death benefits than the annuity he 
chose. So Im satisfied that BWP did make Mr P aware what death benefits he would be 
getting.In any event, I agree with our investigator that, given the relatively low size of fund used to 
purchase the annuity, Mr Ps income needs during his retirement, and the 17 years that have 
passed since he purchased the annuity, there mayve been very little left to pass on to his 
family on his death if hed instead set up a second capped drawdown arrangement if that 
had been possible. 
Therefore Im satisfied that BWP did adequately explain the impact on death benefits of the 
annuity purchase.  
I finally considered whether BWP shouldve reviewed the whole market to see whether a 
new capped drawdown with a different provider couldve been set up.
Could a new capped drawdown with a different provider have been set up?
Mr P said that BWP hadnt reviewed the whole market to see whether or not a new capped 
drawdown could be set up.
BWP said that at the time of the advice, Mr P had around £85,000 in his existing capped 
drawdown. It said the existing plan was fit for purpose but wouldnt accept a low value 
transfer. And that as Mr P had no other guaranteed income in place, his objective for income 
had been met by the annuity. 
As I noted above, even if it had been possible to invest the relatively small sum in a new 
drawdown arrangement, Im satisfied that Mr P wouldve largely spent the funds over the 
time thats passed since 2006. And Im also satisfied that Mr P was happy that the 
recommendation to take the maximum TFC and then to buy an annuity best met his income 
needs at the time. So Im satisfied that BWP acted reasonably when it didnt assess whether 
there were any providers who couldve been used to set up a new capped drawdown for Mr 
P at the time of the advice. 
Overall, I consider that BWPs advice was suitable. And that the annuity wasnt mis-sold. 
Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman