DRN-3011972
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit card in 1999. 
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Bs complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr B, through his representatives, disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done so, I dont think that the PPI policy was mis-sold to Mr B. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, so Ill set out why.
Mr B says that he felt pressured in to taking out the policy, that the advice he was given lead 
him to believe that he had to take the policy and that it wasnt clear that it was optional. He 
also says that he didnt have enough time to decide if he should take the policy.
I wasnt there at the time, so I cant know what was said to Mr B to make him feel that he 
was pressured  and Mr B hasnt provided any detail about this either. So, I have to rely on 
the information I do have. 
Ive been provided a copy of Mr Bs credit card application, and I can see on this that the PPI 
is presented as an optional product  and has been selected. Mr B has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it. So, I think that Bank of Scotland did make it 
clear that Mr B had a choice in taking out the policy, and that he chose to do so.
Ive also considered what Mr B has said about not having enough time to make a decision 
about the policy. But Mr B chose to enter in to an important financial contract in taking out a 
credit card - so it was up to him to make sure he understood what he was entering in to. And 
if he felt that he needed more time, he couldve asked for this, or completed his application 
at a different time when he was sure.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI policy to Mr B - so it needed to make sure that it 
was right for him. And looking at his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Its also possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks 
like the policy couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman