DRN-3978841
The complaint
Miss Fs representative complains on her behalf that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited 
trading as Insure the box unfairly declined her claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F took out a motor insurance policy with Insure the box through a price comparison 
site. 
When her car was stolen she tried to make a claim on her policy. Insure the box declined her 
claim as it said her car had been modified and it did not offer cover for modified cars.
. 
Insure the box said shed answered the question Does the car have any modifications 
incorrectly. It said she had also failed to notify it of further modifications that had been 
completed after taking out the policy. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to decline her claim.
Miss Fs representative brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought it should 
not be upheld. They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and believed it 
was careless. They said in this case Insure the box were able to both decline her claim and 
avoid her policy. However they thought as Insure the box had insured another car it had 
allowed her policy to continue, and this was a fair outcome. 
Miss F doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
said she mentioned the modifications when she called to discuss her claim. She also said it 
was a family member who found and took out the policy for her. She said her father had 
previously had the car and the wind deflectors were not considered a modification by his 
insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Insure the box thinks Miss F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she stated in her application via a comparison site that the car was not modified. And 
also she didnt tell it about the modifications shed made part way through the policy. 
Ive looked at the question asked, and it says; Does the car have any modifications? The 
response was no. Miss F said a family member completed the application for her. And she 
also said as they were bodywork modifications she did not think they needed to be declared. 
I saw that alongside the question there were guidance notes, these say; 
Modifications are non-standard changes made to the car after manufacture, including new 
spoilers, alloy wheels etc. 
I think it was clear that bodywork modifications needed to be declared. And this means 
Miss F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when answering this 
question. Although Miss F said the application was completed by a family member on her 
behalf, I still cannot hold Insure the box responsible for any mistakes in the application. 
Miss F is responsible for ensuring the application was completed accurately.
Insure the box said it does not insure modified cars. It said it doesnt have a criteria on what 
it would or wouldnt accept. It said it asks if the car has been modified and if the answer to 
this is yes, cover is declined. It added if she had answered yes to the question about 
modifications on the comparison site, it would not have provided a quote.
I saw within the terms and conditions of Miss Fs policy it says;
You must tell us as soon as practicably possible about any changes to the information that 
you have provided which is detailed in your Statement of Fact, Schedule and Certificate of 
Motor Insurance. 
The following are some examples of the changes (this is not an exhaustive list) you must tell 
us about:
all changes you or anyone else make to your car if these mean the vehicle is different 
from the manufacturers standard specification (whether the changes are mechanical or 
cosmetic).
I think it is clear that Miss F should have informed Insure the box about the new 
modifications made to her car at the time they were completed. 
  
This means Im satisfied Miss Fs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Insure the box said as a good will gesture it allowed Miss Fs policy to continue as she had 
already added a new car by the time it was made aware of the modifications to the stolen car 
and found Miss F had made a careless qualifying misrepresentation. 
As Im satisfied Miss Fs misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Insure the box can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Insure the box are intitled to avoid the policy for a careless misrepresentation. It could avoid 
the policy from the point of misrepresentation, which in this case would be from the start. If 
avoided it should return any unused premiums the consumer paid. And treat the policy as 
though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal with any claims.
In this case, Insure the Box declined Miss Fs claim, but it didnt avoid the policy. This meant  
the policy premium wasnt refunded. It allowed her policy to continue as another car was 
already insured on the policy. It said if it had cancelled Miss Fs policy, it would have deemed 
it careless misrepresentation and a refund of the full annual premium would have been 
provided. Although the actions Insure the Box took in this case werent strictly in line with CIDRA, Im 
satisfied this was a positive outcome for Miss F. If the policy had been avoided, Miss F 
would have needed to have declared this avoidance when taking out insurance in the future.  
And would mean she would likely have faced a large increase in premium or even had 
difficulty obtaining a policy. 
As Insure the Box have left Miss F in a better position as a result of continuing the policy 
instead of avoiding it, I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome. I wont be asking it to do 
anything more in this case .
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman