DRN-2894126
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) after a claim he made on his classic 
motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Ageas includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Rather 
than repeat what is already known to both parties, in my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Ageas refused to pay Mr Ps claim following the theft of a classic car as they said hed been 
unable to prove his loss.
In summary, Ageas say Mr P hasnt been able to demonstrate that an insured event took 
place. As explained in their final response letter dated 8 October 2019, some of their main 
concerns (in summary) are about:
There being no evidence of the restoration company used for the restoration works 
being registered with Companies House or any VAT registration;
The payment terms for the restoration project which had an agreed budget of 
£140,000  no payment was made until the work was completed; 
Mr P cant recall locations of any of the workshops where he says he visited the car 
during restoration; and 
This claim is very similar to a previous claim Mr P had for a stolen car in 2015 for 
which he was paid £150,000 under a separate insurance policy with a different 
insurer. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence. Both parties will note I havent 
commented in this decision on all of the extensive evidence provided  but I have carefully 
considered it.
Its my understanding from Mr P that separate possible police and legal action is ongoing in 
relation to some of the issues raised in this complaint. In coming to my decision, my role isnt 
to decide whats happened, or if the claim is legitimate. This also extends to deciding the role 
of other third parties referenced in this complaint, for example; the car restoration company 
or the garage that is said to have carried out an MOT check on the car. 
Normally my role in this type of complaint is to decide whether Ageas have fairly investigated 
and considered this claim inline with the policy terms   before reaching its decision. 
However, the starting point with any insurance claim is the policy holder (Mr P) has to be 
able to prove their loss (claim). This means Ageas needs to be reasonably satisfied that the 
loss and circumstances of the claim  including the restoration works of the car happened as 
Mr P has claimed. 
Ageas have said Mr P hasnt been able to demonstrate that an insured event has occurred 
as hed described. For clarity, this means Mr P hasnt been able to reasonably satisfy Ageas 
that the car bought in 2014 had been restored as described and was then valued at 
£180,000 after the restoration. 
Ageas shared their concerns about the claim - which Mr P knows about and responded to 
via a legal representative. Given what Ive seen and heard, I dont find the concerns of 
Ageas unreasonable or without basis. They also gave Mr P, in my opinion, fair additional 
opportunities to clarify some of the details of his claim. 
Following further engagement with Mr P, various third parties including somebody said to be 
one of the owners of the car restoration company that restored Mr Ps car prior to its theft, 
Ageas ultimately decided that Mr P hadnt proven his loss. 
I find that as Mr P has been unable to satisfactorily clear up the discrepancies that surround 
this claim  including the restoration work, hes been unable to prove his loss and it follows 
that theres no claim for Ageas to consider. I dont find that Ageas have treated Mr P unfairly 
or unreasonably here. 
My decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve Mr Ps dispute with 
Ageas  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman