DRN-4148077
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Punter Southall Wealth Limited (PSW) to transfer 
the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C held benefits in the BSPS having previously worked for the sponsoring employer. In 
March 2016, Mr Cs former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB pension scheme) 
from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding 
their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs former employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr C contacted PSW in August 2017 to discuss his pension. PSWs notes indicate he was 
referred by a friend. 
PSW completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
Mr C was 47, in good health, married with two dependent children. He and Mrs C were both 
employed, and their income exceeded their outgoings. They had a mortgage for 
approximately £46,000 with a remaining term of twelve years. But they were making regular 
overpayments and intended to clear the mortgage over the next four years. They had no 
other recorded debts and held savings of approximately £41,000.
In addition to his BSPS pension, Mr C had two small pensions valued at a total of around 
£15,500. One of these was with his current employer, to which he was still contributing.
PSW noted that Mr C was applying to move job back to his former employer, through which 
hed accrued the BSPS benefits. Mr C has confirmed he re-joined that employer shortly after 
this first discussion. And he began paying into a new defined contribution (DC) pension 
through that employer.
PSW said Mr C hoped to phase his retirement from age 55, reducing his work pattern to 
around one day per month from which he expected to receive an income of around £6,000 
per year. He and Mrs C expected to need an income of £18,000 per year in retirement and 
didnt expect to take a tax-free lump sum. PSW said Mr C was concerned by the prospect of 
his benefits moving to the PPF and his objectives were around having control over his 
pension, flexibility and inheritability.
PSW also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious or three on a scale of one to ten, with one being lowest risk and ten highest.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were provided by the BSPS trustees to qualifying 
members in September 2017. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time 
to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to 
the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 1 December 2017, PSW advised Mr C to transfer the full cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of his BSPS pension benefits (£457,170.44) into a SIPP with a named provider. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that it gave Mr C control 
and flexibility in order to meet his income needs and provided access to lump-sum death 
benefits. PSW also recommended that he take ongoing advice from it on his pension, at a 
further cost.
Mr C complained in 2022 to PSW about the suitability of the transfer advice. PSW didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it believed the advice was suitable based on Mr Cs 
objectives. And it said that an independent review, by a third party, had also found the 
advice to be suitable.
Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into it and said it should be upheld and that CST should compensate Mr C for any 
losses caused by the unsuitable advice. He felt Mr C was unlikely to improve on the benefits 
that he couldve taken via the scheme at retirement by transferring. And he thought Mr C 
couldve achieved his income objective from 55 by remaining in the scheme, if this had been 
a genuine objective. But the Investigator thought, given Mr C had a number of years before 
he could retire, his retirement plans were unlikely to be finalised or any more than 
aspirational. So, overall, he didnt think there were any other reasons that meant transferring 
was in Mr Cs best interests. 
PSW disagreed. It acknowledged that Mr C couldve potentially met his income needs from 
age 55 using the BSPS2 benefits and the part time salary he thought hed obtain. But this 
wouldve left him little additional discretional income. Whereas by transferring he had 
flexibility to take more income in the early years of retirement, which it considered to be 
sustainable. PSW questioned the consideration of discount rates when looking at whether 
Mr C would be worse off. And it repeated that its advice had been reviewed by a third party, 
which had agreed it was suitable. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PSW's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PSW should 
have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. The regulators position on this has been consistently 
reflected in the rules around DB transfers for a significant period of time. PSW has argued 
that this is guidance rather than a rule. But again, under COBS 2.1.1R, a rule, PSW was 
required to ensure it acted in accordance with Mr Cs best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied a transfer was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
PSW was required, by the regulator, to produce a transfer value analysis (TVAS). This 
included calculating critical yields which showed how much Mr Cs pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. 
PSW says it had instructed a TVAS which wouldve considered the benefits Mr C wouldve 
been entitled to through the BSPS2. But this wasnt available at the time of the advice. So, it 
referred in the suitability report to a separate analysis, which looked at the benefits that were 
due under the BSPS  even though remaining in the BSPS as it was, wasnt an option for 
Mr C. Nevertheless, both of the TVAS reports have been provided to our service.
To match the full annual pension Mr C couldve taken at age 65, the normal scheme 
retirement age, under the BSPS the critical yield was 7.25%. To match the pension hed 
have been entitled to under the BSPS2 at 65 the critical yield was said to be 5.1%. Or to 
match the full pension the PPF wouldve provided the critical yield was said to be either 4% 
or 4.16% (as the two TVAS reports returned different figures).
For drawing benefits from age 55, which PSW says Mr C hoped to do, the critical yields to 
match the full annual pension Mr C could draw at that point were 14.92% in respect of the 
BSPS benefits, 7.4% for the pension payable under the BSPS2 and either 6.11% or 6.6% for 
the PPF.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. PSW has said it 
was not required to consider these discount rates. But the regulator required businesses to 
compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension, using reasonable assumptions. And the discount rates give a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, while PSW was not obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my 
view, be a reasonable assumption to consider. And PSW was free to consider it. The 
relevant discount rates at the time was 4.4% for 17 years to retirement  relevant if Mr C 
retired at age 65  and 3.4% for 7 years to retirement  relevant if he retired at 55. 
There would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme and taking on the associated risks only to achieve, at best, the same level of 
benefits outside the scheme. And by transferring Mr C would have to pay annual fees and 
charges for the personal pension, which would reduce any gains the funds made. And those 
are not charges he would have had to pay if he didnt transfer.
PSW said in the suitability report that the pension provider it had recommended used 
estimated growth rates of 1% for low growth, 2% for medium growth and 5% for high growth, 
for the funds Mr C would be investing in. And so, it said that the critical yields to match the 
benefits the BSPS wouldve provided were unlikely to be achieved. But given these rates 
from the recommended provider, Mr Cs cautious attitude to risk, the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% for low 
medium and high rate returns respectively, I think achieving growth comparable to most of 
the critical yields quoted was unlikely. And so, he was always unlikely to improve on the 
benefits hed have received under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the normal retirement age, by 
transferring. And if he had retired early, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of lower 
value than hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF.
PSW has said that its cash flow models indicated Mr C could draw a sustainable pension 
throughout his retirement. But one of the assumptions used in these models was an 
expected growth rate of 4.5% net of charges. And given the annual fund charges and 
servicing fee from PSW totalling 1.72%, hed have needed to achieve regular growth of 
6.22% for this model to play out. Which I dont think was likely, for largely the reasons Ive 
said. PSW has also said that the TVAS reports indicated that if growth of only 2% was 
achieved, Mr C could draw equivalent benefits to the BSPS2 beyond his life expectancy to 
age 86. But, as Ive already said, there was little point in Mr C giving up his guaranteed 
benefits by transferring simply to tread water and only achieve the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme. And even if he had stuck to taking this level of benefits via drawdown, 
had he lived longer, or his investments performed poorly, there was still the prospect he 
might run out of money in the SIPP.
PSW says that Mr C wanted to change his working pattern from age 55, reducing his hours, 
and draw pension benefits from his pension to achieve the level of income he expected to 
need. It said he and Mrs C expected to need a combined £18,000 after tax (£21,650 gross) 
in retirement. And an income of £24,000 after tax would allow them to live very comfortably 
although PSW went on to say Mr and Mrs C had confirmed this was not essential.
Mr C couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 55. It is true that these 
wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact that benefits 
wouldve been payable for longer than if he waited until his normal retirement age. This 
reduction was not a penalty. 
The TVAS report said that under the BSPS2, Mr C could take an annual pension at age 55 
starting at £15,123 per year (although I note that the review of the advice by the third party, 
which PSW instructed, indicated that the time to choose pack sent to Mr C said that the 
pension available at age 55 would in fact be £16,320.38). This amount would escalate while 
in payment. This was less than the amount Mr and Mrs C expected to need annually. 
But PSW recorded that Mr C intended to continue working and expected to receive an 
income of £6,000 per year. Mrs C was also working and receiving a salary. They held savings of £41,000. And given they were overpaying their mortgage, which would result in it 
being cleared in 4 years and their outgoings reducing  several years before Mr C retired  it 
was reasonable to think that their savings amount couldve increased before he began 
phased retirement. Mr C also held pension benefits in two other schemes. And, by the time 
PSW gave advice, hed moved job, back to his former employer, and was contributing to 
another pension scheme with it. And it is reasonable to expect hed have continued to build 
pension benefits, either through this scheme or with another employer if he moved roles 
again, until he retired. Mrs C also held some pension benefits. And, both Mr and Mrs C 
would later be entitled to state pension benefits. So, it appears that they couldve met their 
income need, by remaining in the DB scheme. And PSW acknowledged this in response to 
the Investigators opinion.
So, Mr C had no need to transfer in order to be able to meet his needs. But by doing so he 
was exposing his pension fund to the volatilities of the investment markets. So, he was 
putting his otherwise safeguarded DB scheme pension income at unnecessary risk. I dont 
think that was in his best interests, particularly given his cautious attitude to risk.
And, in any event, Mr C was only 47 at the time of the advice. His circumstances, objectives 
or aims couldve changed over the years that followed. Indeed, he has told our service that 
he no longer intends to reduce his working hours to the extent he originally thought he might. 
So, I dont think his plans were set in stone. I dont doubt that Mr C likely indicated in 
discussion with PSW that he aspired to retire early. I think, when asked, most people would 
say they would like to do so. But, for the majority, early retirement means a significant drop 
in income. So, when it had come to it, he mayve felt differently or opted not to retire early. 
Overall, I think it was too soon for Mr C to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of his 
DB scheme. Particularly when he had the option of joining the BSPS2, which as Ive said 
wouldve allowed him to meet his expected needs. And because by joining it he would retain 
the option to transfer out at a later date if his circumstances required it.
PSW said Mr C was interested in the lump sum death benefits of a personal pension. But 
Mr C was relatively young and in good health, so there was no reason to believe he wouldnt 
be reliant on his pension to meet his own needs in retirement. And while the CETV figure 
would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the sum remaining on 
death following a transfer was always likely to be different. It would be subject to market 
risks and fluctuations and would be reduced by any income Mr C took during his lifetime, 
which given PSWs advice was based on him drawing sums from age 55 at a level in excess 
of the benefits offered by the DB scheme, were likely to result in it being reduced. So, the 
pension may not have provided the legacy Mr C mightve thought it would. And the existing 
scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to 
his family in the event of his death.
If Mr C was genuinely concerned about leaving a legacy for his family, PSW ought to have 
considered insurance. I appreciate life insurance can be expensive. So, the starting point 
ought to have been for PSW to ask Mr C how much he would ideally like to leave, and it 
couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, the latter being likely to 
be a lot cheaper to provide. And, given his income exceeded his outgoings, insurance was 
likely affordable for Mr C. 
So, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was in Mr Cs 
best interests. And ultimately PSW should not have encouraged Mr C to prioritise the 
potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
I dont doubt that Mr C was likely to have been concerned by the consultation that had been 
ongoing around the DB scheme. Or that he mightve had some negative feelings about how the sponsoring employer had handled matters and mightve thought moving his pension 
away from it was appropriate. I think that would have been a very natural emotional 
response to what was happening. But I dont think, based on what Ive seen, that he was 
committed to that course of action. And PSWs role was to give impartial, objective advice. 
Mr C had applied and intended to return to working for that employer. He began paying into 
a new pension scheme with it when he took up his new role  before transferring his BSPS 
benefits. And the employer and DB scheme were not one and the same. I dont think these 
things support that he had lost faith to the extent that hed have always moved the pension.
Mr C may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering the PPF. 
But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward the BSPS2 
being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide better benefits than the 
PPF and still provide Mr C the option to transfer closer to retirement. But even if this hadnt 
happened, the PPF still provided Mr C with guaranteed income and the option of accessing 
his benefits early. Mr C was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interests.
And I cant see that Mr C had any investment experience or an interest in or the knowledge 
to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, the recommendation to transfer 
was on the understanding he would take ongoing advice about how his pension was 
invested from PSW, at a further cost. So, I think that having control over his pension was 
simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
PSW has said that the advice was reviewed by a third party using the Defined Benefit Advice 
Assessment tool (DBAAT) which was developed by the FCA as an aid to help in assessing 
the suitability of DB transfer advice . I am satisfied I have already considered the suitability of 
the advice as a whole and explained why I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests. But Ive 
also considered the review PSW has referred to. Having carefully considered the answers 
the reviewer gave to the questions the tool asked, there are some I disagree with which I 
think could have led to a different result. 
For example, in the section titled Examples of unsuitability the reviewer answered No to 
the following examples: 
2) The aim of the transfer is to maximise death benefits but there is insufficient evidence on 
the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
3) The aim of the transfer is to access flexible benefits but there is insufficient evidence on 
the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
6) The client wants to retire early but can meet their objective(s) while remaining in the 
scheme.
9) The firm's transfer analysis does not support a recommendation to transfer.
As Ive already explained Im satisfied Mr C couldve taken retirement benefits at age 55 and 
met his income needs while remaining in the DB scheme, if this was a genuine objective. 
Which PSW acknowledged in response to the Investigators opinion. And he couldve taken 
life cover to provide a legacy to his family if this was a genuine objective.
I dont think transferring out of the DB scheme to maximise death benefits or to obtain 
flexibility was in Mr Cs best interests or suitable for him. And Ive also explained, the TVAS 
indicated that Mr C was unlikely to be able to achieve the growth required to match the 
benefits being given up. Something which PSW again acknowledged in the advice.
So, taking all of this into account, while Ive had regard for the output of the DBAAT I dont think this demonstrates that the advice given to Mr C here was suitable for him.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Cs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr C wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr C received from PSW was 
unsuitable for him. 
While Mr C indicated to PSW he would like to begin phased retirement and potentially take 
benefits from the pension early, his circumstances couldve changed, and I dont think his 
plans were finalised. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve retained the ability to transfer 
out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2 than from the 
PPF. So, had he received suitable advice not to transfer, I think Mr C wouldve opted into the 
BSPS2. And I think PSW should compensate him on this basis.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for PSW to put Mr C, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
PSW must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
PSW should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what PSW 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PSW should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts PSWs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, PSW may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Punter Southall Wealth 
Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Punter Southall Wealth Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Punter Southall Wealth 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman