DRN-3655028
The complaint
Mr B complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited didnt give him all the money he withdrew 
from his account.
What happened
Mr B went to a post office branch to withdraw cash. He is unhappy that J.P. Morgan debited 
his account with £378.16 when he says he only received £15. He wants a refund of the 
difference.
J.P. Morgan said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that Mr B had visited a post office branch 
on 12 November 2021. He had used his account card and entered his PIN. And at 10:14 he 
had been given £378.16 in cash. It said there were no system failures that day and no 
discrepancies that would account for Mr Bs claim. J.P. Morgan had also sent a copy of a 
statement from the cashier involved dated 25 January 2022 who stated that Mr B had come 
back later and raised a dispute. The money had been counted and CCTV had shown it being 
handed to Mr B.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Mr B had said 
he didnt realise he hadnt got the money until he went to a supermarket. He paid for 
shopping of £14.39 with cash. She couldnt see why hed have left the post office without the 
money if he was expecting to receive more. And the evidence from J.P. Morgan was 
consistent with him receiving the cash.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that the supermarket receipt showed the date and time he was 
there. He hadnt known how much his shopping would be. He said he didnt go back to the 
post office again as he felt powerless. He didnt think he had £15 on him; he knew that was 
the case. He wasnt expecting to get more from the cashier because an argument had 
developed, and he was there for about 30 minutes and holding up other customers. He 
wasnt allowed to see the CCTV, and this is what wed relied on. He doesnt think that the 
cameras would be at the right position to show what happened. He was told that hed put the 
money in the shopping bag. But he thinks the cashier assumed he only wanted £15 when he 
asked for the £5 notes first. Mr B said hes not in the habit of making things up. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
I note that when Mr B wrote a letter dated 29 January 2022 to J.P. Morgan he stated that 
the teller short changed me, which I had not realised at the time because I only had fifteen 
pounds on me when I went through the checkout at [name anonymised] supermarket. 
He went on to say that I had it out with the teller, and he told me I put the money in my 
shopping bag so I told him to search me but he refused! The two tellers ran back the CCTV 
cameras when they finish work so I dont know what the outcome was.
I note that the time of the receipt Mr B provides from the supermarket is 10:43 on 12 
November 2021. This shows a bill of £14.39. It seems he tried to pay by card which was 
declined and then he paid in cash and had presented £15.
The information from J.P. Morgan shows no cash discrepancies when the tills were balanced 
that day which could explain this dispute. And that his card was used to take out money. I 
note that Mr B regularly took out his pension in cash of £178.16 per week and that it is also 
shown that he had a £200 winter fuel allowance to withdraw on 12 November 2021 too.
There is a significant dispute about the amount/ number of notes Mr B was given. I think its 
most likely that Mr B intended to take out all the money as he regularly did. And that he 
would have noticed not receiving all the money at the time even if as he says hed asked for 
some £5 notes separately. He clearly said in his complaint letter referred to above that he 
hadnt noticed. He went back to query things and staff viewed the CCTV and say it showed 
him putting money in his shopping bag. That CCTV unfortunately no longer exists so I cant 
view it. 
It's possible if Mr B was given the money that hed lost it, or an unknown third party had 
taken it off him without him knowing. I dont have particular reason to doubt that he only 
found £15 in cash when he went to pay at the supermarket. But I also have reason based on 
the evidence to think that its most likely he was given that full amount of cash when in the 
post office branch.
I know Mr B will be very disappointed when I say that having balanced all the factors I dont 
have a reasonable basis to require J.P. Morgan to refund this money. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman