DRN-1786707
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how Lloyds Bank Plc treated them when they were in financial 
difficulties and struggling to make their mortgage payments. Mr and Mrs A say they asked 
Lloyds to help them by reducing their monthly payments but were told that, as the account 
was in arrears, Lloyds couldn't help. They would like a more affordable arrangement for an 
agreed term and an apology.
Mr and Mrs A also complain that Lloyds instructed solicitors and scheduled a court hearing 
when they had already sent in details of their income and expenditure, which the solicitors 
lost. 
Mr A has led the complaint throughout. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held a mortgage with Lloyds. The mortgage is split into various sub-accounts, 
all of which were on the standard variable rate (SVR) other than further borrowing of around 
£50,000 that they took out in 2007. This was on a repayment basis and fixed at a rate of 
6.79% until December 2014. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs A experienced difficulties in making their full mortgage payments 
and arrears began to build on the account. Mr and Mrs A say they asked Lloyds to reduce 
their payments several times, but they were told this couldnt be done until they cleared the 
arrears. 
Mr A says he sent several letters to Lloyds to propose repayment plans, but these went 
unanswered. 
Lloyds instructed solicitors around September 2019 and a court hearing was set for October 
2019. Mr A says this is unfair as he provided the income and expenditure information that 
was requested but the solicitors lost this. Theyve raised a separate complaint against the 
solicitors but say that Lloyds could have shared this information sooner and that this would 
have stopped the court hearing. 
Mr and Mrs A have also complained about the interest rate charged on their mortgage some 
years ago. This complaint has already been considered by this service and a decision issued 
so I wont be addressing these concerns here. 
Lloyds replied to the complaint in final response letters in July and August 2019. In these 
they said they didnt act unfairly as Mr and Mrs A had missed payments and the account was 
in arrears, and they hadnt been able to come to an arrangement with Mr and Mrs A to clear 
them. They said that they had agreed to payment arrangements in the past, but these had 
been broken and they are not able to offer a new product until the arrears are reduced to be 
below or equal to one monthly payment. Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service and our investigator looked into it but 
didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. Mr and Mrs A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to review the matter. 
In his response to the investigators opinion, Mr A stressed that they feel Lloyds treated them 
unfairly by passing the account to solicitors, when they had provided the income and 
expenditure information requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I cant consider - and why
Mr and Mrs A have raised previous complaints about their mortgage that have been 
considered by this service. A decision was issued by another ombudsman on 11 April 2014 
in response to a complaint about how they were treated during the financial difficulties they 
were experiencing at the time, so Im only able to look at how Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs A 
from this date onwards. 
Mr and Mrs A also raised concerns about a high interest rate they were paying because they 
were in a fixed-rate period on part of their mortgage. They have mentioned this in their 
complaint form for this complaint, but as this was considered in the earlier complaint and a 
decision issued, Ill not be commenting further on this here. The fixed rate on this part of the 
mortgage expired in 2014.
Did Lloyds treat Mr and Mrs A unfairly from 2014 onwards?
Mr and Mrs A say they reached out to Lloyds for help when they were struggling but were 
told that they needed to clear the arrears on their mortgage before any agreements could be 
made. Mr A says that he wrote to Lloyds several times to ask for help but that his letters 
went unanswered.
Ive considered the contact notes and can see that in October 2014, Mr A wrote to Lloyds to 
ask if he could lower the amount he had to pay each month until December 2014. Lloyds 
replied to say that Mr and Mrs A would need to make a full monthly payment for the last 35 
day payment period to the account before an arrangement could be considered. 
Unfortunately, this wasnt paid. Later that year, in October, Mr A contacted Lloyds again and 
they asked him to complete an income and expenditure assessment. This was completed 
and the mortgage was deemed affordable based on the information provided. Lloyds agreed 
to an arrangement on the account from February 2015 for the monthly payment plus £100 
towards the arrears but unfortunately, this was broken soon afterwards as the full amount 
wasnt paid. 
Considering this, I cant see that Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly, its reviewed the 
information provided and agreed to an arrangement. Lloyds responded to Mr As requests by 
asking him to contact them to discuss the matter further, so I dont agree that his letters went 
unanswered. 
Unfortunately, since 2014 the account has been in arrears for large periods of time because 
Mr and Mrs A havent met the payments due. Im sorry that Mr and Mrs A are in financial 
difficulties and have noted the comments they have made about the stress and worry this 
has caused. I can understand this but any payment lower than the amount due that Lloyds accepts would 
be as a temporary concession rather than a long-term solution. Apart from anything else, it 
increases the arrears  when, in the longer term, a solution to clear the arrears needs to be 
found. A reduced payment arrangement is a short to medium term concession to provide 
some breathing space, not a long-term solution to a mortgage thats no longer affordable. 
Ive seen a payment record of the account and can see that payments were often missed, 
paid late or for sums that didnt add up to the full monthly payment, and this resulted in the 
arrears increasing over several years.
Mr and Mrs A did make three large payments to the account to clear the arrears from two 
endowment policies and a sum from a pension. In July 2016, Mr and Mrs A made the largest 
of these payments for over £16,000  which were funds from a matured endowment policy - 
to clear the arrears. Unfortunately, by the end of that year the arrears began to build up 
again as the monthly payment still wasnt being regularly met. 
Lenders are expected to work with borrowers when they are in financial difficulties and 
engage with them to try to get things back on track if the account is in arrears. From the 
information and evidence Ive seen, Lloyds did do this and maintained regular contact with 
Mr and Mrs A to get an idea of their income and expenditure to see what they could afford.
For example, in July 2017, Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs A an income and expenditure form to be 
completed and suggested that they go into a local branch as they had previously said they 
didnt want to speak to Lloyds on the phone. It doesnt appear that this was completed. Mr A 
wrote to them in December 2017 to say that the arrears will be cleared by the end of January 
2018 as he was expecting a lump sum from his pension. Unfortunately, six months after this 
was received, the account fell back into arrears. 
Mr A contacted Lloyds in February 2019 in response to a letter about a field agent visit. He 
was told of the level of arrears on the account and that this could result in legal action if 
payments were not maintained. At this time, Lloyds asked for details of Mr and Mrs As 
income and expenditure to assess whether the mortgage was still affordable. Mr A said that 
he didnt have his wifes details and would call back. 
In late February 2019, Mr A called Lloyds to make the full monthly payments on his 
mortgage and request that a payment plan be set up on their account. Mr A was offering to 
pay the full monthly payment plus £250 towards the arrears each month. Mr A was asked to 
complete an income and expenditure form and Lloyds put things on hold until 28 February 
2019 to allow him enough time to gather the information. 
Lloyds tried to contact Mr and Mrs A by phone in March 2019 but were unsuccessful. Letters 
were also sent to Mr and Mrs As address. As the arrears continued to build, a final arrears 
notice letter was sent by Lloyds to Mr and Mrs As address on 21 May 2019. Mr and Mrs A 
raised a complaint about how they had been treated.
Following the complaint in May 2019, Lloyds issued two final response letters in July and 
August 2019. The letters advised Mr and Mrs A to get in touch with Lloyds to discuss their 
account and complete an income and expenditure review so that Lloyds could agree a new 
repayment plan. A hold was placed on the account until 20 August 2019 to allow time for 
them to get in touch with Lloyds. As Lloyds didnt hear back from Mr and Mrs A in this 
timeframe, they instructed solicitors to start legal proceedings to recover the arrears on the 
account.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly. I think they 
considered any request made for payment arrangements and have agreed to these but 
unfortunately, these were broken due as payments were missed or not made in full. Lloyds asked for the relevant information it needed to establish if the mortgage was still affordable 
for Mr and Mrs A and put holds on the account to wait to receive this before taking further 
action. Although Mr and Mrs A have managed to pay some lump sums to clear the arrears 
from time to time, it seems that they can no longer afford the regular payments theyre 
required to make each month and havent been able to do so for several years. When the 
mortgage was initially taken, it was agreed that it would be repaid by Mr and Mrs A and I 
think Lloyds has shown reasonable forbearance in this case in trying to reach a solution  
but that has not proved to be possible.
Lost income and expenditure details
Mr A says that he sent the income and expenditure details in August 2019, but that Lloyds 
lost them. Ive asked for copies of the letters Lloyds received from Mr and Mrs A and have 
seen a letter dated 29 August 2019 which included income and expenditure details. In this 
letter he suggested paying £850 a month from September onwards. He said that he was 
hopeful that Lloyds would agree to this as a way forward and said that he still didnt feel he 
was being treated fairly. 
Unfortunately, this letter was sent after the account was passed to solicitors. Lloyds sent its 
final response letter on 15 August 2019 and applied a hold to the account to allow time for 
Mr and Mrs A to receive the letter and get in touch with them. From the contact notes, this 
hold appears to have been removed on 27 August 2019 and the account was passed to 
solicitors. Mr As letter was dated 29 August 2019 so would have been received after this 
date. As solicitors had been instructed, Lloyds said that any proposals would need to be 
made through them. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs As situation and understand that this must have been stressful and 
difficult for them. But they provided this information some six months after it was initially 
requested, and I dont think Lloyds treated them unfairly or acted unreasonably when it 
passed the account to solicitors. They said they did this because of the arrears on the 
account, which stood at around £4,870, and lack of contact from Mr A and I dont think this 
was unreasonable. 
Im mindful that Mr A asked for a payment arrangement, but I dont think he provided the 
information requested in a reasonable timeframe for Lloyds to give fair consideration to the 
request. Lloyds letters were clear and explained the consequences of not making payments 
towards the mortgage and not getting in touch to agree a way forwards to address the 
arrears.
Mr A also says that the solicitors lost the information he sent. Hes raised a separate 
complaint about the solicitors which will be looked at by a different body. 
Legal fees and charges
As explained above, I dont consider that Lloyds acted unreasonably by passing the account 
to solicitors and as a court hearing took place, I think its reasonable the relevant fees were 
charged. 
The outcome of a hearing in October 2019 was a suspended possession order (SPO) on the 
condition that Mr and Mrs A met the contractual monthly payment and an additional payment 
towards the arrears balance of around £125 per month. Unfortunately, this was not 
maintained, and Lloyds passed the account to solicitors again. I understand that the 
mortgage was redeemed in early 2020.
ConclusionsI appreciate that this has been a difficult and stressful time for Mr and Mrs A  and Ive noted 
the comments hes made about the impact this has had on their health and the constant 
worry caused. 
But considering everything, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly. 
I think they took reasonable steps to engage with them and made appropriate efforts to gain 
an understanding of their financial situation. Based on the information provided the mortgage 
appeared affordable at the start but unfortunately, the monthly payment was regularly 
missed, paid late or not in full so arrears built on the account and I think they fairly explained 
the potential consequences of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020. 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman