DRN-3173545
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) continued to charge him for a 
package of optional benefits associated with his current account after he had told it he no 
longer wanted the package. The package was known as a Tech Pack.
What happened
In 2014, Barclays sold Mr R the Tech Pack when he visited one of its branches on 
other business. Hes told us that this meeting took place towards the end of the year, 
although Barclays has said it took place in May that year.
Mr R has told us that around six months later he went back to the same branch, again 
on other business, but the Tech Pack came up in the conversation and he asked 
Barclays to remove it. Hes said that Barclays told him it would do so, and he left the 
matter there. He found out several years later that Barclays didnt remove the Tech 
Pack and continued to charge him for it.
Barclays has said that it has no record of this conversation and that Mr R didnt ask it to 
remove the Tech Pack until early 2021, when it did so.
I previously sent Mr R and Barclays a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the case and I explained 
that I thought Barclays hadnt cancelled the Tech Pack when Mr R asked it to. I invited both 
parties to send me any further comments they wished to make before I reached a final 
decision.
The period of time I allowed for further comments has now passed. Both Barclays and Mr 
R have told us that they accept the findings in my provisional decision and have nothing 
to add. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. As there is 
nothing new for me to consider since I sent my provisional decision, I have reached the 
same conclusion for the same reasons. I am upholding Mr Rs complaint. I have explained 
my decision below. Much of what follows is very similar, but not quite identical, to what I said 
in my provisional decision. 
The crux of this complaint is about whether Mr R asked Barclays to remove the Tech Pack in 
2015 and how Barclays responded if he did.
Mr R has given us quite detailed recollections of the conversations he says he had with 
Barclays, how they came about, and what happened afterwards. In outline, hes said 
that:
During his first visit to the branch, Barclays noticed that he had recently bought a 
new mobile phone and advised him to buy the Tech Pack as it provided insurance 
for mobile phones. He accepted the advice and bought the Tech Pack, for which 
Barclays charged him a monthly fee.
During his second visit, he realized that he wasnt making good use of the Tech 
Pack and thought that it was draining (his) money each month. He asked 
Barclays to remove the Tech Pack and it agreed, telling him that it would be 
taken care of.
For various reasons unrelated to the Tech Pack, he started to use an account 
with a different bank for most of his banking needs and only used his Barclays 
account occasionally. He assumed Barclays had removed the Tech Pack.
In January 2021, Barclays contacted him to tell him his account was significantly 
overdrawn. He discovered that Barclays had never removed the Tech Pack and 
was still charging him for it each month.
Barclays description of what happened is very different. It has told us that Mr R didnt ask 
it to remove the Tech Pack until early 2021. It has said it has no evidence of any earlier 
request. However, it has also sent us some of its internal records about Mr Rs complaint 
which say there (are) notes relating to the removal of the tech pack, I have checked 
account activity from 2015 and there is nothing to show the pack was removed or any 
issues with this.
Barclays has also said that it now knows that over the over the years Mr R held the Tech 
Pack he changed address several times without letting it know. Its pointed out that it posted 
Mr R various bank statements and letters about the Tech Pack to the address it held for him 
and that these showed that he was still paying monthly charges for the Tech Pack. It has 
argued that if Mr R had kept it up to date about his addresses, which it has said was his 
responsibility, then he would have known he still had the Tech Pack and could have asked 
to remove it at any time.
In essence, it seems to me that Barclays position boils down to two points. Firstly, it 
doesnt accept that Mr R asked it to remove the Tech Pack in 2015 and secondly it 
believes it behaved reasonably in sending correspondence about the Tech Pack to the last 
address Mr R had told it about.
With respect to Barclays first point, I find Mr Rs description of the conversations he recalls 
taking place to be highly plausible and convincing. It is consistent with the both the earlier 
and subsequent events. Im satisfied that he did ask Barclays to remove the Tech Pack 
from his account in 2015, that it said it would, but then didnt.
With respect to the second point, I accept Barclays position that it sent Mr R appropriate 
information about the Tech Pack and the monthly charges, but through no fault of its own 
this information went to the wrong address. It also seems possible to me that if Mr R had 
told Barclays about his new addresses when he moved, the two parties may have been 
able to resolve this dispute earlier. However, this doesnt change my finding on the crux of 
this complaint that Barclays failed to act on a clear request from Mr R; and that if it had 
done so, Mr R would not have incurred the monthly fees for the Tech Pack which Barclays 
went on to raise. Had Barclays acted correctly, there would have been no dispute to 
resolve.So, in summary, it seems to me that Barclays failed to act on Mr Rs instruction to remove 
the Tech Pack from his account and acted unfairly in continuing to charge him monthly 
fees. It follows that Barclays should now put things right for Mr R by paying him fair 
compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, Barclays should put him into the financial position he would 
have been in if it had removed the Tech Pack from his account when he asked it to.
Neither party has been able to give an exact date of when Mr R made this request, 
which isnt surprising as the relevant discussion took place over six years ago; so, given 
the evidence that is available, I think it is fair to both parties to use 30 June 2015 as the 
date by which Barclays should have stopped the monthly fees. 
Barclays should therefore:
Refund Mr R all the fees he paid for the Tech Pack from 1 July 2015 onwards.
Add simple interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mr R paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC. It should put things right for him by paying him the compensation I have 
described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman