DRN-4209750
The complaint
Mr A complains about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) and the sale of his bespoke home insurance policy, which he doesnt think suited his 
needs at the time. Mr A also complains about the premiums applied to this policy, and the 
increases at renewal.
What happened
In 2018, Mr A transferred from a standard home insurance policy to a bespoke home 
insurance policy, underwritten by NFU. This bespoke policy renewed yearly. But in 2022, Mr 
A became unhappy with the policy, and its cost, so he raised a complaint.
Mr A didnt think the bespoke policy hed purchased was fit for purpose for several reasons, 
which included one of his two properties insured on the policy being listed as a mid-terrace 
which he disputed. And he was unhappy with the increase in premiums this policy incurred 
each year at renewal. So, Mr A wanted to be compensated for what he felt was a mis-sale of 
the policy and he wanted to be refunded a portion of the premiums hed paid.
NFU responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the classification of a 
mid-terrace was correct, as the building was adjoined to a property on either side. And they 
thought a bespoke policy was correct for Mr As needs at the time of sale, due to the value of 
the contents Mr A wanted to ensure. NFU also thought the premiums Mr A had been 
charged were calculated fairly, with discounts being applied as they would expect. So, NFU 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr A remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought NFU had 
provided Mr A with clear and fair information when changing him to a bespoke policy. And 
they were satisfied this policy was suited to Mr As needs, due to the level of cover he 
required for the value of his contents. So, they thought NFU had acted fairly here. And they 
were satisfied the premiums for Mr As renewals were calculated fairly, in line with their 
underwriting criteria, and that the increases were based on risk factors, rather than taking 
advantage of Mr As loyalty as a customer. So, our investigator didnt think NFU needed to 
do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He maintained his belief the policy wasnt suited to his needs, as he didnt 
think his second home was a mid-terrace property. Mr A also provided several other 
comments, most of which related to issues considered by our service as part of a separate 
complaint. Our investigators view remained unchanged and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I recognise Mr A feels 
strongly about the suitability of the policy he holds, and the amount hes paid over several 
years. I appreciate the premium price is significant and so, I can appreciate why Mr A would 
feel the need to complain if he was unhappy regarding the policy itself.
But for me to say NFU should do something more, such as compensate Mr A or refund him 
all or part of the premiums hes paid, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something 
wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied NFU provided Mr A with unclear or misleading advice at 
the inception of the policy, which resulted in him paying for a policy not suitable to his needs. 
Or, that they calculated the premiums each year unfairly, without reasonable risk factors 
being considered. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I note in response to our investigators view, Mr A 
provided comments about specific claims hed made on his policy, and advice he was given 
during these claims that he feels was incorrect. These issues have been considered 
separately by our service, under a separate complaint reference. So, I wont be discussing 
these issues any further.
Instead, my decision focuses solely on the sale and suitability of Mr As bespoke policy. And 
then, the pricing of this policy including the renewal premiums.
When considering the sale of the policy in 2018, and its suitability, our service would expect 
NFU to provide Mr A with clear and accurate information to ensure Mr A was able to make 
an informed choice. And, that the policy taken out was suitable for Mr As needs overall.
Ive seen notes of the initial sale conversation, which was held in person. And within these 
notes, I can see Mr A made it clear he wanted to increase the level of cover from the 
standard policy he held, as the value of the contents he wanted to insure exceeded 
£150,000.
And Ive seen NFUs underwriting criteria, which shows that where the value of contents 
exceed this amount, they would expect a bespoke policy to be put in place. So, Im satisfied 
the policy Mr A purchased was the most suitable policy that NFU had available at the time.
And within the notes, I can see the description of Mr As home was appropriately considered. 
And, while it was accepted Mr A himself resided in a lower floor maisonette, he made it clear 
he believed he was responsible for insuring the entire building. And Im satisfied this building 
was fairly described as a mid-terrace building, as it contained two maisonettes on separate 
floors, with adjoined buildings either side of it. So, I cant say that NFU acted unfairly when 
describing it as such within the policy.
I note Mr A has also raised concerns about having cover for items he doesnt himself own. 
But whilst the policy is titled bespoke, the policy itself comes with automatic cover for a 
range of eventualities and items, whether Mr A owns them specifically. And Im satisfied that 
this cover came as part of the policy and incurred no additional cost to the premiums Mr A 
paid. So again, I dont think this means the policy was unsuitable, or mis-sold.
Ive also seen that, in both 2019 and 2022, policy reviews were undertaken by NFU. And I 
think this shows NFU acting proactively, to ensure Mr As policy continued to suit his needs 
over time, taking into account a persons situation can change. And I also note that Mr A was able to utilise the policy on more than one occasion and so, I think this supports the fact that 
the policy was fit for the purposes Mr A intended.
So, because of all the above, I think NFU acted fairly when incepting the policy, providing 
clear and reasonable advice that allowed Mr A to purchase a policy that was suitable for the 
level of cover he required at the time. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more for 
this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then turned to the pricing of the policy, and in particular the rise in his premium prices at 
renewal. While we as a service cant tell a business what it should, and shouldnt, charge a 
customer for a policy, we are able to consider each complaints individual circumstances, to 
ensure a customer has been treated fairly.
And when thinking about this, wed expect any premium increases to based on risk 
assessment and risk factors, rather than a generic increase based around a customers 
loyalty, and lack of engagement.
In this situation, I can see that across the lifetime of the policy, the risks associated to Mr As 
policy changed for several reasons. And Ive seen NFUs unwriting information which sets 
out clearly NFUs approach to the pricing of Mr As policy. considering these risk factors. And 
I think these show NFU ensuring the premium charged was both fair and reasonable. While 
Im unable to disclose the specifics of this approach as it is commercially sensitive, I want to 
ensure Mr A Ive examined it thoroughly, and at length.
And I think this reasonableness is supported in NFUs renewal documentation, where they 
offer Mr A the chance to shop around for cheaper policies should he wish to do so, which 
they also reiterated in conversations with Mr A directly. But Mr A chose not to do so, instead 
continuing to renew with NFU on several occasions. So, I think he did so with an awareness 
of the policy premium he would be paying.
So, because of the above, Im satisfied NFU acted fairly when calculating the premiums 
associated to Mr As policy over its lifetime and because of this, I dont think NFU need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I appreciate this may conflict 
somewhat with Mr As view of NFU overall, considering his unhappiness with the way 
theyve handled some of his claims which is an issue our service has looked into separately. 
But I hope this decision goes some way to reassuring Mr A that the policy he purchased was 
fit for purpose in 2018, and that its been priced fairly during its lifetime meaning that Mr A 
hasnt incurred what I would deem to be unfair, or unreasonable, financial losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman