DRN-3448043
The complaint
M complains about Santander UK Plc and the account they set up on its behalf in 2009. Ms 
complaint has been brought to our service by its owner, Mr W.
What happened
M held a business current account and reserve account with Santander when it applied to 
set up a third account in 2009. M intended to use this account as a client account, where it 
would hold its clients deposits paid in relation to property rentals.
M used the account for this purpose from 2009 to 2021. But in 2021, M sought clarification 
from Santander that the account was a specified client account due to involvement with its 
regulatory bodies. And Santander confirmed the account was a Business Reserve Account, 
rather than an undesignated client account. M was unhappy about this, so it raised a 
complaint.
M thought Santander opened its account incorrectly in 2009. And because of this, M 
explained its regulatory body had withdrew its membership which had caused it difficulty in 
finding another lender that would allow it to open the correct type of client account. So, it 
wanted Santander to compensate it for the inconvenience it was caused and the financial 
loss it incurred as it explained it had to turn down two prospective clients due to the 
uncertainty that was created.
Santander responded initially and said they had opened the account incorrectly. But they 
changed their position, explaining the application M made in 2009 was non-advised, 
meaning theyd were satisfied theyd opened the account in line with Ms instructions. But 
they recognised the confusion that wouldve been caused by the letter they sent in 2010 
stating the account was a client account. And the fact they said they had made a mistake 
initially. So, they offered M £300 to recognise any inconvenience this caused. M remained 
unhappy with this, so it referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think they could 
say Santander opened the account incorrectly, as it was set up on a non-advised basis 
based on the application M made. And they didnt think Santander were responsible for 
ensuring the account qualified as the correct type to satisfy Ms regulatory bodies. But they 
did recognise the inconvenience M wouldve been caused when its regulator membership 
was withdrawn, and a new client account needed to be sourced. And they did think 
Santander contributed to this inconvenience when they confirmed the account was a client 
account in 2010 when it wasnt. They thought the £300 Santander already offered was a fair 
one to recognise this and so, they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more.
M didnt agree. It thought the initial application it submitted in 2009 made it clear that the 
purpose of the account was to be a client account. And as Santander reviewed this 
application before approving it, M didnt think it was reasonable to say the application was 
non-advised. And M thought Santander had provided it with incorrect information regularly 
during the lifetime of the account, as it was never made aware the account wasnt an 
undesignated client account as it required. So, M maintained its belief that Santander should 
increase the compensation amount to reflect this, and the financial loss it believed it had 
incurred. As M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. I recognise the complaint has been brought to us by Mr W, 
on behalf of M. And I appreciate its Mr W who has liaised with Santander during the 
complaint itself and has taken the time to set up a new account that allowed M to retain its 
regulatory membership. So, I understand the anxiety and upset Mr W is likely to have felt 
during this process.
But crucially, it is M that is the customer of Santander in this situation as the account was set 
up and opened in Ms name for Ms trading purposes. So, Im unable to consider the 
personal impact this complaint has had on Mr W. My decision instead has focused on 
whether Santander set up the account correctly and the service they provided around this. 
And if I think Santander acted unfairly regarding this, the impact this had on M and M only. 
Im also unable to consider any complaints that relate to Santanders handling of Ms 
complaint as complaint handling itself is an unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our 
services jurisdiction to investigate.
Ive first thought about the account opening, and whether I think Santander made a mistake 
here. Santander have confirmed the account was opened on a non-advised basis, meaning 
they provided no guidance or support to M on whether the account was fit for its intended 
purpose. I can see M submitted its application with a cover letter, which satisfies me the 
application was made remotely, and not in branch with any guidance provided by Santander.
So, for me to say Santander made a mistake, Id need to be satisfied Santander failed to 
follow the instructions included within the application form. I can see on the form that M 
ticked the box Business Reserve Account within the section confirming what type of 
account M was looking for before explaining that its intention was to use the account as a 
client account. And Ive seen the account statements, which are clearly labelled as 
Bus.Reserve Account Statement. So, Im satisfied Santander set up the account in line with 
the application form. While its become clear that this account didnt fall in line with the 
requirements of Ms regulator, I wouldnt expect Santander to be aware of this. And even if 
they were, the account was set up on a non-advised basis, so I think it was Ms responsibility 
to ensure the account was suitable. Because of this, I dont think Santander made a mistake 
when opening the account and so, Im unable to say they acted unfairly in relation to his.
But I do think some of the correspondence Santander sent to M after this was misleading. In 
2010, I can see that Santander wrote to M confirming the account was a client account. And 
I think it was reasonable for M to rely on the information this letter provided. While I dont 
think information was factually incorrect, as customers are able to use Business Reserve 
Accounts to hold the money of one client and so, act as a client account, I can understand 
why this would lead M to believe the account it had suited its regulatory needs. And so, 
when it was informed this wasnt the case in 2021, it was left needing to find a new account provider within a relatively short period of time to ensure it retained its regulatory 
membership which I think wouldve been inconvenient. And I think without its regulatory 
membership, its reputation wouldve been negatively affected. So, I think Santander should 
compensate M to recognise this.
Santander have offered M £300 to do so. And I think this offer is a fair one that falls in line 
with what I wouldve awarded had it not already been made. I think it recognises the 
inconvenience and short-term damage to Ms reputation as Ive discussed above while also 
taking into consideration the fact Santander set up the account correctly on a non-advised 
basis based on the information M supplied at the application stage. So, I dont think 
Santander need to do anything more on this occasion.  
I understand this isnt the outcome M was hoping for. And I recognise M turned down two 
new clients which wouldve generated an income due to the uncertainty it faced. So, it 
believes this financial loss should be considered. While I understand why it took this decision 
due to the uncertainty the account issue created; I think this was Ms own decision to make. 
Crucially, the account issue itself didnt formally prevent M from taking on new clients. So, I 
dont think I can say Santander were responsible for this financial loss and so, I havent 
considered this when reaching my decision that the offer Santander have made already is a 
fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman