DRN-3209935
The complaint
Mr H complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) provided him with unsuitable 
advice to transfer two personal pension plans (PPPs) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) and to invest the fund value in unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). 
Which Mr H says has caused him a loss in his pension fund.
What happened
Mr H held two PPPs and received advice from Portal regarding those pensions. Portal 
issued a suitability report on 16 May 2013 that advised him to transfer his PPPs to a SIPP. 
And provided investment advice within that SIPP. It recommended that Mr H invest his fund 
across four different UCISs.
Mr H didnt proceed with the transfer at that stage. Instead he came back to Portal later and 
on 4 October 2013 Portal issued Mr H with another suitability report. That report related to 
the transfer of the same PPPs. In it Portal recommended that Mr H transfer his PPPs to the 
same SIPP that was recommended in the May report. That suitability report told Mr H that it 
wasnt advising on the investments as hed already decided on how he wanted to invest his 
pension.
Mr Hs PPPs were then transferred to a SIPP. And the transfer value was invested in two of 
the four UCISs that had been recommended to Mr H in the May suitability report.
Mr H brought a complaint to Portal via a claims management company (CMC). The letter of 
complaint was dated 30 August 2019. In it the CMC complained that the advice to transfer 
and the investments recommended werent suitable for Mr H. 
Portal initially asked whether our service could look into this complaint. It suggested the 
complaint had been made too late. I issued a jurisdiction decision explaining why I thought 
the complaint had been made in time. 
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mr Hs complaint. She thought that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Portal disagreed with our investigator. Portal said that:
Mr H wasnt advised on the investments, and that it just facilitated the transaction for 
him;
the transaction was execution only so the assessment of appropriateness in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 10 didnt apply.
Mr H has provided a SIPP statement from August 2021 which shows that the UCISs have 
failed and been removed from the SIPP as having no value.
The case was passed to me to give an ombudsmans decision. I issued a provisional 
decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld and offering both parties 
the opportunity to consider my reasons and respond
Mr H accepted my provisional findings, and Portal offered no further evidence or comment 
for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter again in full, my decision is to uphold this complaint for the 
same reasons that I previously explained to both parties.
Ill start by referring to the jurisdiction decision that I issued for this complaint. When Portal 
responded to Mr Hs complaint, it didnt respond on the issue of whether or not theyd done 
anything wrong  the merits of his complaint. Portal pointed out that the Suitability report that 
it gave Mr H on 16 May 2013 was more than six years before Mr Hs complaint was made. 
And Portal argued that Mr H ought to have been aware that something was wrong more than 
three years before he complained.
I explained why I thought that Mr H had made his complaint in time, identifying a complaint 
that Mr H made to Portal on the phone within six years of May 2013. And explained that as 
Portal issued no referral rights to our service, our rules meant that the six months that Mr H 
would normally have to refer a complaint to us didnt apply. And Ive seen no further 
arguments to change my mind, so am still satisfied that we can consider this complaint.
I think its worth noting the jurisdiction argument that Portal raised in its final response to 
Mr Hs complaint made in August 2019. It said that the original point of advice to you was in 
your suitability report dated 16 May 2013, which you received over six years ago. So when 
arguing that the complaint was made too late, Portal thought its advice in May 2013 was the 
relevant recommendation. But now that the merits of this complaint are being considered, 
Portal wishes to disregard that suitability report, and instead argue that it was superseded by 
its recommendation in October 2013. Which it says was on an execution only basis.
Our investigator focused on Portals recommendation of May 2013 and explained why it was 
unsuitable. And Portal havent responded to explain why it was. Portals argument focussed 
on the October 2013 suitability report, which it says made no recommendation as it was an 
execution only transaction. I dont think Portals argument is very reasonable though. 
Portals relationship with Mr H was in the capacity of an adviser. It had made a full 
recommendation in May 2013 that included a recommendation about how the pension fund 
should be invested after the switch. And in October, knowing what the intended investment 
would be in the SIPP, recommended a SIPP to enable those investments. So, for reasons Ill 
explain, neither of the recommendations it made were suitable.
May 2013 recommendation
Portal carried out a fact-find ahead of providing its recommendation in this suitability report. 
It established Mr Hs financial circumstances including the pensions he held. The 
recommendation that it provided Mr H was limited to the pension switch, which is the subject 
of the complaint. 
Portal identified Mr H as having certain objectives. These included:
consolidating his pension plans
benefitting from potentially higher investment performance
having a plan with less volatility
moving away from equitiestaking responsibility away from his ex-employer
passing benefits to his family
But Portals suitability report stated the following:
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.
In fact the suitability report shows little consideration being given to the objectives that were 
identified for Mr H, offering no commentary on whether the recommendation met them. By 
itself I dont think the reason Portal gave was a good enough reason to justify making this 
recommendation. Portal provided no evidence to support the claim that Mr H would improve 
his retirement benefits by making this switch. So Mr H was given no idea of how likely it was 
that he would be better off. The suitability report provided no past performance information 
for the investments that it recommended. 
Ive considered whether the recommendation may have been suitable given Mr Hs other 
objectives. Mr H had a third pension that was left as it was. And whilst consolidating these 
two pensions may have simplified Mr Hs pension position, Portal didnt comment on whether 
consolidating these two PPPs offered any genuine benefit to Mr H. And I cant see that it did. 
He still had another separate pension that wasnt consolidated. And it wasnt necessary at 
this stage to consolidate in order to take his benefits as he was too far away from his chosen 
retirement age.
Considering the other objectives:
Portal dont seem to have explored why Mr H wanted to move away from equity 
based investments. Id have expected Portal to question this further. And I cant see 
that it did. 
The PPPs that were transferred werent related to Mr Hs ex-employer, so this 
recommendation made no real difference to this stated objective. 
Portal made no comment on the comparative death benefits of the PPPs and the 
SIPP. But I would think that, its more likely than not, that switching offered no benefit 
in this regard either.
The suitability report addressed Mr Hs attitude to risk. Portal defined Mr H as having a 
moderately adventurous attitude to risk. 
Portal assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk using a questionnaire. In March 2011 the FCA issued 
guidance for assessing suitability. They said firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling tools 
to establish their clients attitude to risk. The FCA said that firms should have a robust 
process for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to questions 
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated. 
The responses that Mr H provided in the risk attitude questionnaire were conflicting which 
can be the case. His answers indicated that he wasnt comfortable investing in the stock 
market and was concerned about the volatility of investments. Mr H agreed that people who 
know him would describe him as a cautious person and that he usually took a long time to 
make up his mind on investment matters. He disagreed that he was willing to take 
substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns. But he disagreed that he would look for safer investments if that meant lower returns. And disagreed that he preferred bank 
deposits to riskier investments.
Portal have provided no scoring method for its questionnaire so it isnt clear why it 
considered Mr H to have a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. But I think the answers 
he gave indicated someone who was prepared to take some risk in order to get returns on 
his money. But wasnt prepared to take substantial risks. Im not persuaded that this 
questionnaire and Mr Hs circumstances meant that he had a moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk for this investment. I think it would have been more reasonable to treat Mr H 
as having a balanced attitude to risk.
However, I think that the UCISs Portal recommended represented high risk investments. 
Which werent suitable for the attitude to risk that Portal considered Mr H to have. The lack 
of regulation and the type of assets invested in meant these UCISs were complex and high 
risk. They potentially had a high degree of volatility, which wasnt suitable for Mr H.
In July 2010 the regulator issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and 
Poor Practice Report. It contained examples of good practice, citing firms that had robust 
controls in place and that limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolio. So Portal 
should have known that recommending Mr H invest his whole pension fund in unregulated 
investments was unsuitable. 
Portal said that Mr H had a suitable capacity for loss. He had another pension, so I agree 
that he had some capacity for loss with these PPPs. And the PPPs were invested, so 
exposed to investment risk already. He also had over 12 years to retirement age in which to 
continue planning for his retirement and recover from some loss. But the volatile nature of 
the UCIS recommended meant there was a risk of substantial or total loss. I dont think that 
Mr H had that level of capacity for loss for these pensions without it adversely affecting his 
retirement.
For the reasons Ive given I dont think that Portals recommendation was suitable. The 
recommended investments were too high risk, and I dont agree Mr H had the capacity for 
the potential loss for such investments. 
Im not persuaded that the pension switch offered Mr H any benefits. I dont think that 
switching to a SIPP met his objectives any better than the existing PPPs he had. In the 
suitability report Portal listed the options it considered. Remaining in his PPPs wasnt listed 
as an option that it considered. But I think that it should have been. In this case, I dont think 
the pension switch was necessary. So it is the switch that was unsuitable. It was more 
suitable for Mr H to have left his PPPs where they were. So Portal should have advised Mr H 
of this.
October 2013 recommendation
Mr H explains that he approached Portal in October 2013 after having considered Portals 
recommendation. He explains that, of the four UCISs that Portal recommended his 
preference was to go with just two of them. Mr H explains that this was following up on 
Portals existing recommendation. Which seems a reasonable explanation. So I think that its 
more likely than not, that if Portal hadnt recommended that Mr H switch his pensions to 
invest in UCISs in May 2013, then Mr H wouldnt have come back to them in October 2013 
asking to transfer. It follows that what happened in October was brought about by Portals 
advice in May.
Having made a full recommendation in May though, Portal havent made it clear why it chose 
to issue its follow up suitability report in the way that it did. Mr H certainly appeared to be following Portals earlier recommendation in part, if not in its entirety. 
In the October suitability report Portal had the opportunity to again comment on the suitability 
of the investments and the transfer though. But instead suggested that Mr H had made his 
own mind up on his investment choices. I dont think this is a reasonable argument. 
Consumers should be able to take time to consider what are quite important financial 
decisions. And should be able to come back within a reasonable time without a business 
then claiming to take no responsibility for its earlier advice. Portal should have advised Mr H 
on whether changing the balance of investments it recommended before made a difference 
to its overall recommendation. It had an opportunity to correct what I think was its earlier 
flawed advice, which it didnt take.
Ive considered whether the fact that Mr H only wished to invest in two of Portals 
recommended investments might have made a difference. And I think that it might. By 
limiting the SIPP portfolio to only two of the four UCISs Mr H was making his portfolio less 
diverse than Portal had recommended. And in doing so potentially increasing the risk even 
more. And it doesnt appear that Portal have made any comment on that in the October 
recommendation. Which it should have.
I can see that the October suitability report avoids making any comment on the suitability of 
the UCIS for Mr H. But it does still provide Mr H with a recommendation. 
The October report says, upon evaluating the different providers of income drawdown 
available, I have recommended that you transfer your pension plan to a [named] Self 
Invested Personal Pension. So I think that Portal were clearly giving Mr H a 
recommendation to switch his PPPs to a SIPP. Mr H approached Portal as his adviser. Not 
as a SIPP provider. So this wasnt an execution only activity. The section of COBS that is 
relevant here is section 9 regarding suitability. Not COBS 10 as Portal have suggested.
COBS 9 applies to a firm which makes a personal recommendation to a retail client in 
relation to a designated investment. And COBS includes personal pension plans under its 
definition of designated investments. Portal had a responsibility to ensure that its 
recommendation  that Mr H transfer his PPPs to its recommended SIPP  was suitable for 
Mr H. 
Its worth noting here that In April 2014, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued an 
alert to remind businesses of their responsibilities when advising on pension switches where 
monies were being invested into unregulated products. It wasnt introducing new guidance 
but re-iterating the existing position that was in place when Portal provided its 
recommendation for Mr H. The FCA said theyd seen many cases of customers whod held 
traditional pension plans, invested in mainstream funds with no experience of non-
mainstream propositions and limited experience of standard investments. The new 
arrangements proposed by businesses were typically into unregulated, high risk and highly 
illiquid investments. They said such transfers were unlikely to be suitable for the vast 
majority of retail customers.
The FCA went on to say that if the underlying investment was unsuitable for the customer, 
then the overall advice wasnt suitable. They also said the firm needed to understand the 
underlying investment proposition in order to be able to assess its suitability. Which in this 
case meant that Portal werent able to ignore the intended investments after the switch to the 
SIPP. Portal needed to consider the switch as a whole, including the UCISs Mr H had 
decided upon, before recommending this pension switch to Mr H. 
And as Ive already explained, I dont think the investments that Portal recommended in May 
were suitable for Mr H. And I dont think that investing in only two of them in October could be considered suitable either. So Portals recommendation to move his PPPs to a SIPP, in 
order to facilitate those investments, wasnt suitable.
Putting things right
Ive explained that it would have been more suitable for Portal to have advised Mr H not to 
switch his PPPs. If itd done so, I think its more likely than not that Mr H would have left his 
pensions where they were. So Portal should put Mr H, as close as possible, into the position 
hed have been if the switch hadnt happened.
What Mr Hs PPPs may have been worth
To compensate Mr H fairly Portal should obtain the notional values for both of Mr Hs 
switched personal pension plans from the providers, from their transfer dates up to the date 
that Mr H accepts my final decision. Thereby determining what those pensions would be 
worth had they never been transferred to the SIPP. 
If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from either pension scheme Portal 
should instead use the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index) benchmark, using 
the same dates, to calculate the notional value of his switched pensions. 
Ive chosen this as a suitable benchmark because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
What Mr Hs SIPP is worth
Portal should then find out the value of Mr Hs SIPP, if it is still open and has any value, on 
the date of its above valuation.
Mr Hs loss
The difference between the notional value of his PPPs and Mr Hs SIPP valuation represents 
the loss that Mr H suffered.
Portal should pay this amount into Mr Hs pension and that payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief, so that hes in the same position hed have 
been in if hed stayed in his original scheme.
If paying compensation into Mr Hs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed, then Portal should pay the compensation to Mr H as a 
cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would 
otherwise be paid. It should be assumed that 25% of this can be taken tax-free and that 
Mr H will likely pay basic rate tax at 20% on the remainder. So a reduction of 15% should be 
made to the loss figure to account for the likely effect of income tax. If Mr H paid all of his SIPP fees from assets in his SIPP fund, then the above methodology 
will ensure that Mr H is compensated for his actual loss. If Mr H had to pay any fees directly 
or make contributions to his SIPP to cover fees, then Portal will need to reimburse him for 
this. Portal should pay Mr H the cost of any additional contributions including 8% a year 
simple interest#, from the date of the payments until the date that Portal settles the 
complaint. 
Portal must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple interest#.
Mr H has been caused distress as a result of Portals unsuitable advice. It will have been 
alarming to find out that the value of the investments in this pension fund had reduced to 
zero. Hed had no options to intervene or sell the investments because they were illiquid. 
And hes been caused inconvenience in trying to get the UCIS removed from his SIPP. In 
recognition of this impact Portal should pay Mr H a further £350.
# - Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr H how much has 
been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Portal Financial Services LLP should compensate Mr H in the manner I have set out under 
the heading putting things right above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman