DRN-2574511
The complaint
Ms W complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided incorrect estimates of the 
maturity value of her endowment. 
What happened
In August 2015 Ms W received a letter from Aviva with an estimated maturity value between 
£32,400 and £37,200. In May 2016 Ms W received another estimate saying her policy may 
mature with a value of £36,000 to £37,800. In May 2020 Ms W received maturity proceeds of 
£9,134.31.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Aviva had admitted to 
making errors when calculating Ms Ws maturity values in 2015 and 2016, but it did correctly 
calculate the investments value before and after the incorrect estimates. So, although she 
understood why Ms W was frustrated and disappointed with the errors, she felt the £250 
offer of compensation from Aviva was fair. 
Ms W didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she thought for a long 
time about what she should do with her investment in 2015 and 2016. But because of the 
extremely misleading projections, she decided not to withdraw the funds. Ms W has said she 
wouldve been financially better off if she had withdrawn her funds, and that £1,000 would be 
a more acceptable compensation offer from Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Ms W feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ms W has said she wouldve withdrawn her funds if Aviva hadnt made a mistake with its 
calculations in 2015 and 2016. Ive considered this carefully. Having done so, Im not 
satisfied she wouldve  on balance - closed the endowment. I agree with the investigator 
that its clear Aviva made a mistake with its two estimates. But it also sent other estimates to 
Ms W before and after its errors which were much closer to the value of the endowment 
when it matured. One of these was in May 2017 where a minimum value at maturity was 
estimated to be £5,349. Similar values were quoted in both May 2018 and 2019. 
I note Ms W feels the £250 offer from Aviva is unfair. But I dont agree £1,000 would be a fair 
offer here. I accept it wouldve been frustrating for her to receive incorrect estimates by letter 
and then over the phone by Aviva. But because other estimates were sent whilst the 
endowment was open, which were much closer to the final maturity value, Im satisfied 
Avivas mistake with the estimates didnt mislead her as to her options, and that £250 is a 
fair offer. This seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman