DRN-4140759
The complaint
Ms F complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund money she lost, which she 
believes was as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows. 
On 6 September 2021 Ms F found a hire removal company. She told us she had a long 
telephone conversation and exchanged emails with the company  for ease Ill refer to as W.  
Following this, she was quoted a price of £1,000 for the removal and storage of her 
items/possession. 
Ms F proceeded to make a bank transfer for £1,000 on 11 September 2021 to the details 
given to her. The payee Ms F made the payment to was in the name of another removal 
company  Ill refer to as KR. Ms F was told that W was a side arm that operates side by 
side with KR but that it didnt subcontract work to KR or other companies. Ms F was told that 
W would be doing the move. 
On 13 September 2021, Ms F told us the van that arrived was small and dirty and wasnt 
adequate to hold all the items/possessions due to be moved and stored. Ms F says she 
believes W had subcontracted out the work, despite what shed been told, and that it was KR 
who turned up. 
Ms F explained to us that on the day, she was told shed need to pay additional costs due to 
her wanting items/possessions moved that were not stated on the inventory. Ms F raised this 
with W, as she told us shed not completed the inventory form. Following this, she was then 
told shed incur charges for late loading. Ms F commented that W in its contact with her at 
this time, were aggressive and rude with her. Having lost faith in W, she decided not to 
proceed and asked for a refund of the money shed paid. 
Ms F raised the matter with Metro on 13 September 2021. It looked into things but 
considered the case to be a civil dispute rather than a scam. In brief, this was on the basis 
that a service was attempted by the merchant and it attended the pickup arrangement, albeit 
with poor service, which Ms F declined.
Unhappy, Ms F brought her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into 
things. In summary, the Investigator thought the matter was a civil dispute and not a scam. 
She explained that having looked at all the information she thought this wasnt a scam but 
more a case of poor service from the removal company. She noted the merchant arrived at 
Ms Fs address as arranged, but Ms F hadnt proceeded due to a number of factors, such 
as, the size and condition of the van, the company asking her for more money and her loss 
of faith in them. She added that Metro was unable to raise a chargeback, as Ms F had paid 
by bank transfer and not a card payment. 
Ms F didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, she strongly maintained that 
shed been the victim of a scam. Ms F also raised that our Investigator hadnt addressed her 
concerns about Metros handling of the complaint she raised. 
Our Investigator responded to Ms F about the level of service Metro had provided. She 
acknowledged Ms F had called the bank a number of times. She said businesses have to 
strike a balance with the speed of response provided to customers. She recognised Ms F 
was upset and that she wouldve liked more contact from Metro, but she didnt think it had 
deliberately not contacted her. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
There is no disagreement here that Ms F authorised the payment and so, under the relevant 
legislation, shes considered liable for it in the first instance. However, Metro is a signatory to 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Under the 
terms of that code, the starting position is that a customer who has fallen victim to a scam 
should be reimbursed. However, it specifically excludes private civil disputes, such as 
where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but 
has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise 
dissatisfied with the supplier.
When considering whether a dispute such as this should be considered a civil dispute or a 
scam, I need therefore to look at the intention of the supplier and whether its clear that they 
set out with a criminal intent to deceive or defraud the customer. 
Theres clearly a significant dispute between Ms F and W about the van that arrived on the 
day of the removal, particularly about the size and condition that it arrived in. I also recognise 
Ms Fs comments that W subcontracted out to KR, which is whom she says arrived on 
13 September 2021. But these factors dont in and of themselves mean that shes a victim of 
a scam or fraud that would meet the criminal threshold. 
Its clear the agreement with W didnt go as Ms F expected it to and I can understand entirely 
why Ms F feels so strongly about what has happened based on what shes shared with us. 
But having considered everything thats been given to us, Im not persuaded, from what Ive 
seen, that there is enough evidence to safely say W set out with the intention to defraud 
Ms F from the outset.
Ms F has provided online negative reviews about W in support of her case. I also recognise 
her dissatisfaction with W referring to an inventory which shes told us she didnt complete as 
a means to apply additional charges. There may well have been sharp practice in terms of 
how W operated and ran its business, but that isnt the same as willingly and intentionally 
acting fraudulently or deliberately setting out to scam Ms F at the time. Questionable trading practices are not enough for me to be as sure as I would need to be 
that W acted dishonestly and deceitfully, by taking payment from Ms F in circumstances 
where it had no intention of fulfilling its side of the bargain  especially in light that a removal 
van did arrive at Ms Fs address and on the day agreed. I dont doubt that some of what 
happened here suggests very poor business practice. But I dont think I can safely say that 
this would meet the criminal threshold of an APP scam. 
 
As part of my investigations, Ive seen confidential information from KRs bank (whom Ms F 
made the payment to). I cant share any details with Ms F, but the information doesnt lead 
me to think its more likely than not that KRs account was being used fraudulently. I think its 
also significant that KRs bank has also said there were no other allegations of fraud made to 
the bank. Had the removal company scammed multiple people, I wouldve expected some of 
them to have contacted their own bank and alleged fraud, as Ms F did. I think the fact that 
this doesnt appear to have happened supports the argument that Metro had made that this 
is a civil dispute. 
All things considered, I cant safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of W not providing the level of service in 
line with Ms Fs agreement with W as she reasonably expected, signs of W not operating 
well and a possible breakdown in communication and loss of faith between Ms F and W. 
It follows that, on balance, I cant fairly or reasonably say that, based on what I know, W set 
out with the intent to defraud Ms F. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt 
apply. And I cant ask Metro to refund the money Ms F has lost. 
Im also satisfied that there wasnt anything else Metro could have done to either prevent the 
loss or recover the funds. I say this because I don't think the payment was remarkable 
enough or out of character to such an extent whereby I would expect it to have concerns 
about it and intervene. And as the payment wasnt made by debit or credit card the various 
schemes available that offer protection to those methods of payments werent available to 
Metro or Ms F either. 
Ive also carefully considered Ms Fs dissatisfaction with the service she received from 
Metro. Ms F says the bank never addressed her complaint. Ms F referred to the complaint 
she raised with the bank on 16 September 2021 via an online complaint tool. She also 
provided us with the initial reply she received through the online complaint tool from 
21 September 2021 in which Metro advised it had forwarded her request onto the relevant 
department. Ms F told us she reached out to Metro again around 30 September 2021 and 
received a response from the bank, which again said her request had been sent onto the 
relevant department. 
Our Investigator referred Ms F to a letter dated 16 September 2021 from Metro in which it 
provided a response to the customer service concerns shed raised. However, Ms F says 
she didnt receive this letter. I recognise it will have been disappointing for Ms F not to have 
received the letter Metro says it sent to her. Ms F maintains she didnt receive a letter about 
the outcome of the claim. Ive thought carefully about this, but Im mindful from calls I have 
listened to between Metro and Ms F that she was told by the bank that it declined to 
reimburse her for the payment shed made. In a call on 13 September 2021 (appears to be a 
call made by Ms F after her initial call to raise the fraud claim), she was told the bank 
considered this a civil dispute and the agent mentioned Citizens Advice and a small claims 
court to Ms F. I also have to keep in mind that in the absence of Ms F receiving anything in 
writing, this has not prevented her from bringing her case to this service. I do realise that my decision will be disappointing for Ms F and I dont say any of this to 
downplay or diminish what she has been through which must have been an extremely 
difficult and frustrating experience for. She had paid in good faith for what should have been 
an acceptable service from a removal firm and what was provided fell far short of her 
reasonable expectations. Shes been unable to recover her money which has made matters 
far worse. I sympathise with Ms F for the impact all of this has had on her and I know she will 
be disappointed by my decision. However, for the reasons Ive said above, Im not 
persuaded Metro can fairly be held liable for her losses in these circumstances, I simply 
cant safely conclude based on the evidence that this was an APP scam.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman