DRN-2180635
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) failed to honour a credit card balance 
transfer offer they made to him, which he feels was unconditional. He is unhappy that when 
he accepted the offer, BOS carried out checks without giving him notice and then rejected 
his balance transfer request. He is also unhappy that BOS reduced his credit limit prior to 
making this offer.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr L and BOS, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with.
When Mr L requested the balance transfer facility, he believed it was unconditional, and so 
paid his existing balance off in order to be able to make a balance transfer. However, when 
he later tried to do so, BOS withdrew the offer, stating he had not passed their eligibility 
checks. Mr L feels he has been misled by BOS.
BOS did not believe they had acted unfairly, stating that his application for a balance transfer 
failed their eligibility checks which included checks with credit reference agencies. But they 
did concede that he ought to have been made aware that the promotional balance transfer 
offer was subject to such checks when he initially enquired as to what offers were available. 
In recognition of that BOS offered Mr L £50 by way of an apology.
Mr L also complains that BOS reduced his credit limit from £3,850 to £3,600 prior to 
withdrawing the balance transfer offer. He feels the two events may be connected. Mr L was 
unhappy with BOSs final response and so approached this service to see if we could assist 
in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and having done 
so, concluded that BOS hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 1 September 2020 and both Mr L and BOS have 
responded to say they accept it. The only point of disagreement is that Mr L maintains he 
has not received the initial offer of £50 compensation yet. I shall deal with that below.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to provide a fair and impartial answer to 
individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is 
appropriate.
I have considered both sides views in considering whether BOS acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here.
The foundation to this complaint is whether BOS were issuing a pre-approved offer to Mr L 
or not. I am quite certain BOS believed they were not, and I am equally certain Mr L felt they 
were. The point may be settled by determining what a fair-minded person would make of the 
actual offer when read alongside the terms and conditions of the account.
Whilst I recognise that Mr L feels BOS is to an extent hiding behind its terms and conditions, 
in my view a dispute of this nature does need to start with an examination of them in order to 
see the contractual relationship which exists between the bank and its customer. The terms 
BOS has brought out do reveal that BOS specified, If you ask us to process a balance 
transfer or money transfer, we will transfer the agreed amount once we have completed our 
security checks.
Mr L has interpreted the phrase security checks to mean his account security, rather than 
checks about his financial security. Ive thought about that in the context of the rest of the 
wording of the above term. My interpretation is that what this term relates to is the transfer of 
an already agreed sum, and that the actual moment of transfer would not be completed until 
checks were made. I think it reasonable to conclude that in this context the checks relate to 
account security rather than anything else, because it pre-supposes the transfer sum has 
been agreed.
BOS have also drawn attention to the following term under Section A3  Interest Rates.
We will notify you before any promotional offers you have taken out expire. We may make 
other promotional offers available to you in the future if you are eligible for them. The length, 
interest rate and fee may depend on many factors. These may include the way you use your 
account, your credit risk or our reasonable response to changes in the services industry.
I have highlighted the relevant part in so far as it applies to Mr Ls complaint, and I would 
agree that this makes clear that promotional offers may be made to him if he was eligible. 
But the natural meaning of that wording also pre-supposes that if they made him such an 
offer, they had already found him to be eligible for it.
That takes me to the telephone call Mr L had with BOS. BOS have accepted that it ought to 
have made it clear that the promotional offer was subject to further credit checks. They also 
concede that it could have been communicated to Mr L much better. In making such a 
concession it must follow that Mr L did not have all the information he needed to make an 
informed decision about whether he should or could apply for the balance transfer. I 
disagree with any suggestion that BOS have deliberately misled Mr L, because there is no
evidence of such an intention. BOS were of course entitled to not extend further credit to 
Mr L if he did not meet their eligibility criteria, but that ought to have been made much 
clearer to him.
BOS has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should compensate Mr 
L and as such has offered him £50, which Mr L rejects as being a token gesture. I appreciate 
that Mr L would also like a definitive ruling on whether BOS have breached The Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, but I am afraid that such consideration 
must be reserved to the County Court where those arguments might be better aired. My role 
as I say above, is to consider whether BOS have acted fairly and reasonably, and I dont 
think they have.I have also considered the reduction in Mr Ls credit limit by £250 and note this to be prior to 
his balance transfer request. Whilst Mr L may believe the matters are connected, there is no 
evidence of this, and of course BOS are entitled to review any customers credit limit from 
time to time. There is no evidence before me to suggest that BOS has acted unfairly, and in 
my view BOS were entitled to review and then reduce the credit limit.
That takes me to the issue of compensation. Our investigator thought that BOS offer was 
enough to put matters right, but I am afraid I must disagree. Ive given some further thought 
to what might be an appropriate, fair and reasonable level of award. In so doing Ive 
considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases.
Ive also considered what direct loss Mr L may have had, and whilst I understand his 
argument that he lost the opportunity of a favourable balance transfer I have seen no 
evidence of quantification of his loss. That is possibly because it is either impossible to 
quantify or so nuanced that an accurate calculation cannot be made. The point remains 
however that there is no evidence of direct loss upon which to make any assessment.
Putting things right
Putting all of this into the balance I think BOS paid should increase their offer, and in my 
view £100 would be fair and reasonable and I think enough to put matters right.
In the event that BOS has not yet paid Mr L the initial £50 offered then it should now pay him 
£100 in total. In the event they have already paid the £50 compensation initially offered, then 
they must pay a further £50 now, bringing the total paid to £100. 
My final decision
BOS has already made an offer to pay Mr L £50 to settle this complaint, and I think it should 
increase that offer to £100. For the sake of clarity, I am of the view that £100 in total is a fair 
and reasonable level of compensation for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman