DRN-4260024
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unreasonably delayed the transfer of 
his personal pension to a QROPS causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr G lives in France and had six personal pensions held in the UK (totalling around 
£262,000), including one with Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva). In May 2020, firm S 
Mr Gs French financial advisers specialising in pension advice to expatriates, recommended 
the policies be amalgamated and transferred to a Malta-based Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) with Momentum. Once consolidated, the funds would 
be invested into an offshore bond held with Quilter with Tilney as discretionary fund 
manager. Mr Gs policy with Aviva was a Group Protected Rights policy, valued at around 
£83,555. 
S, which successfully arranged the transfer of Mr Gs other plans to the same QROPS, 
initiated the process with Aviva in October 2020. But unfortunately the transfer of the Aviva 
plan took much longer than the others, delaying the investment into the bond. In June 2021 
the other funds were sent to Quilter to be invested, but they were initially returned as the 
amount was lower than expected. But eventually in September 2021 Quilter agreed to issue 
the policy without the Aviva funds. 
Mr G complained several times throughout the process about Avivas poor service, as it lost 
documents, requested the same information more than once, failed to return calls or deliver 
on agreed actions. Aviva issued three final response letters, none of which upheld Mr Gs 
concerns. In September 2021 Aviva said it was awaiting the signed transfer forms originally 
sent out in October 2020. In October 2021 Aviva said it was still waiting for his signed 
declaration, ID and questionnaire. And in April 2022 it said the transfer couldnt go ahead as 
it still didnt have all our requirements but without specifying what was missing. The transfer 
still hadnt completed when Mr G referred his complaint to this service in February 2022.
S explained Aviva had disinvested Mr Gs policy in October 2021, so the funds remained in 
cash until 26 August 2022 when around £95,696 was finally transferred to Momentum, and 
invested with Tilney in October 2022, meaning Mr G lost out on a years worth of growth and 
dividends. Had Mr Gs policy remained invested with Aviva for longer, S thought hed still 
have been worse off, as a DFM like Tilney would tend to outperform Avivas passive 
investment strategy, despite the market turmoil arising from the war in Ukraine. 
Provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in June 2023 in which I made the following 
findings (in summary):
I expected firms like Aviva to have a process to follow when arranging transfers out, 
particularly those with protected rights, which is likely to include some element of due 
diligence about the receiving scheme. Firms have regulatory fraud and scam prevention 
requirements which can take a while to complete. But I thought Avivas standard process 
didnt quite fit with Mr Gs circumstances as a non-UK resident wishing to transfer his UK 
pension to a QROPS. 
In its initial letter in October 2020, Aviva set out to Mr Gs financial adviser its requirements 
(listed below) and provided a current (non-guaranteed) transfer value of just over £82,715. 
All of Avivas requirements needed to be met within six months of the policyholder signing 
the transfer form. And Aviva said a transfer should take 15 days from the point its 
requirements are met. 
Overseas transfer form
Overseas transfer questionnaire
HMRC form APSS263 (QROPS member information)
A copy of HMRC form APSS251 from the receiving scheme
Original policy schedule
Lifetime allowance detailed questionnaire 
Identification documents (listed in a guide) 
I said Aviva hadnt specified any additional requirements for a transfer to a QROPS. And it 
didnt appear to have kept track of what it had received, which resulted in it requesting the 
same information more than once, even when it had previously confirmed receipt. Overall, 
the process took more than 18 months, which I thought seemed unreasonable, unless Mr G 
or his adviser caused the delays. 
I set out several delays during the process: 
Aviva warned Mr G his European advisers werent regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (being based outside the UK), without appearing to acknowledge 
the relevance of Mr G himself being resident outside the UK. 
Aviva appeared to have lost the original transfer forms which Mr Gs adviser sent by 
courier in December 2020. Although Aviva said these werent received, I was 
satisfied its more likely than not they were delivered to Aviva, as the adviser sent two 
sets of forms together, and Aviva subsequently located the other set, but not Mr Gs. 
In February 2021 Aviva had told the adviser it would accept scanned copies of the 
completed forms, but then said it needed hard copies. Mr G re-sent the forms by post 
and email on 10 March 2021. If these were the same forms Mr G had signed in 
December the process needed to complete by the end of June 2021 to meet the six-
month deadline.
Aviva said it was waiting clarification around restrictions the French regulator had 
placed on its French business, which Mr G says werent relevant as they only applied 
to new business in France, and his money was being transferred to a QROPS 
outside France. 
In April 2021 Aviva said it needed to check Momentum would accept funds from a 
non-UK resident. 
Avivas 27 April 2021 letter confirmed to Mr G it had received the following:
oCompleted D1 form;
oThe two completed HMRC forms (APSS251 and APSS263)
oPrimary and secondary ID
But it still needed the overseas transfer form, signed by Mr G and Momentum, and the policy 
holder questionnaire, and I thought it also required the LTA questionnaire. Another set of 
documents were sent in May 2021, but the transfer forms had been signed by Momentum 
but not Mr G. On 24 June 2021 Mr G emailed and posted a copy of the completed and signed pension 
transfer questionnaire, but in July 2021 Aviva said the forms had timed out.
On 3 August 2021 Aviva confirmed receipt of another set of forms signed by Mr G, and that 
his transfer was being treated as a priority. I thought this was the point Avivas 
requirements should have been met. But in September 2021 Aviva needed a new D1 form , 
which it had previously confirmed receipt of prior to 27 April 2021, but now couldnt locate on 
its system. Aviva sent a new D1 form and questionnaire to Momentum in October 2021.
On 8 November 2021 Mr G sent Aviva a completed LTA questionnaire, two forms of certified 
ID, a copy of the Tilney proposal and details of the Momentum scheme. I was satisfied Aviva 
had already received the D1 form, two HMRC forms and two forms of ID in April 2021, it 
received the questionnaire in June 2021, the transfer forms signed by both parties in 
September 2021, and in November 2021 it received the completed LTA questionnaire. 
Around this time Aviva disinvested Mr Gs funds. But the transfer didnt proceed for several 
more months, as Aviva wasnt able to confirm Mr Gs identity to its satisfaction until July 
2022. Mr G provided his certified ID documents to Aviva multiple times, and even offered to 
present himself to its London offices, if that would help.  Other providers had transferred his 
policies to the same QROPS much more quickly, including one of a much higher value than 
his Aviva policy, so he couldnt understand why this element of the process took so long.
So I looked closely at the process Aviva followed to confirm Mr Gs identity. Aviva provided 
Mr Gs advisers with a Customer Identification Guide, which explained the Financial 
Conduct Authority rules firms have to follow to comply with money laundering legislation. As 
Mr Gs pension wasnt being transferred to a UK bank account from which hed been making 
contributions, the guide said hed need to provide either an original or copy of one item from 
list one, to confirm his identity (current passport, benefit book, driving licence, national ID 
card or a current tax-year HMRC coding document), and one item from list two, to confirm 
his address (recent council tax bill, utility bill, bank statement). 
People living outside the UK or Europe would need copies of such documents to be certified 
by a professional person from one of the following categories:
Lawyer/solicitor/attorney
Regulated Accountant
Embassy, Consulate or High Commission for the country the ID has come from (Mr 
G has an Irish passport so this would need to be an Irish official)
Notary Public
UK higher education registry staff
According to the guidance, as Mr G lived in Europe, copies were acceptable, and didnt need 
to be certified
But Id seen that Mr Gs copied ID documents had been certified by Ms H, his financial 
adviser. Ms H first certified Mr Gs passport (with his photograph fully visible), and a utility bill 
on 21 December 2020. Aviva confirmed on 27 April 2021 it had received primary and 
secondary ID for Mr G, which appears to have met the requirements set out in its guidance.
Mr G provided further copies of his passport and a utility bill on 6 September 2021, and 
again with his letter of 8 November 2021. 
On 17 November 2021 Aviva confirmed its requirements were met, and it was just 
completing its final checks. It repeated this on 6 December 2021. 
Contradicting its own guidance, Aviva then said it needed to see original ID documents or 
certified copies because it was an overseas transfer. I said Aviva had always known Mr G 
was overseas himself (in Europe), and the receiving scheme was in Malta. So if they were needed, it could have requested certified copies from the outset. In any case, Mr Gs copy 
documents had been certified by Ms H.  
Mr G provided another certified copy of his passport on 31 December 2021. But in January 
2022 Aviva requested Mr Gs identification documents again, and in March 2022 Aviva said 
it needed a better copy of Mr Gs passport, as his face wasnt clearly visible. So he provided 
another certified copy on 31 March 2022. 
Aviva then queried who had certified the documents, so Mr Gs adviser confirmed to Aviva 
she had personally certified his identity documents on six occasions, but shed been away at 
the most recent time, so Mr G had to attend his local government department in France 
where his documents were certified by the mayor. 
The March 2022 certified copy of Mr Gs passport included Ms Hs name, address and 
phone number, signature, date and a stamp confirming the photo was Mr Gs likeness. I 
thought it likely this information had been included each time she certified Mr Gs 
documents. The stamp included the name of her firm (which has IFA in its title confirming 
her profession). But it wasnt clear if Ms H fell into one of the acceptable categories, although 
she may be a regulated accountant. 
I said it was reasonable for Aviva to ensure it was acting on genuine instructions, and it had 
a regulatory obligation to confirm Mr Gs identity and address. But I thought this element of 
the process had taken far too long, particularly as Aviva didnt explain what was wrong with 
the certified ID documents Mr G had submitted and appeared to have gone beyond the 
requirements set out in its own guidance. Mr G was put to additional trouble and expense by 
having his documents copied and certified multiple times. And Avivas notes show each time 
Mr G called, which he did on many occasions, he was taken through its caller verification 
process, so there was no doubt Mr G had requested and authorised the transfer. 
As well as the delays caused by Mr Gs ID, in January 2022 Aviva said it needed to know 
why he wanted to transfer to a QROPS (information already captured in the transfer 
questionnaire). I thought this was probably a standard fraud prevention question, whereby a 
transfer to a QROPS can raise a red flag, but Aviva had failed to recognise the relevance of 
Mr Gs status as a non-UK resident for whom a QROPS is an appropriate pension vehicle. 
Aviva then said it was completing its due diligence, after which the transfer would take ten 
days to process. But in February 2022 Aviva decided it needed to speak to Mr G about the 
transfer. But he was unwilling to divulge personal data in a call from an unidentified number 
he couldnt be sure was genuine. Mr Gs identity was confirmed to Avivas satisfaction on 5 
July 2022, and the transfer finally completed in August 2022, with no clear explanation for 
why it had taken so long.
 
So I upheld the complaint and set out what Aviva should do to put things right. The amount 
eventually transferred (£95,696), was around £12,000 higher than the original October 2020 
valuation. But as Mr Gs policy had been disinvested and remained in cash since 
October/November 2021, hed potentially missed out on around ten months of investment 
growth and dividends. I said I wasnt holding Aviva responsible for the delay in investing the 
proceeds of Mr Gs other five policies with Quilter/Tilney. As although the original intention 
had been to amalgamate all six policies, it transpired it was possible to issue the policy in 
September 2021 and then add the Aviva funds later, enabling Mr G to mitigate his loss. 
I said the redress should put Mr G in as close a position as possible, as if the funds had 
been disinvested in August 2021, transferred to Tilney/Quilter in September 2021, and 
invested in line with his other funds. I said the compensation should be paid into Mr Gs 
pension plan, but if that wasnt possible it should be paid to him in cash, with a notional 
adjustment for tax. I also said Aviva should pay Mr G £650 for the trouble and upset its delays had caused.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded. 
Aviva disagreed with the provisional decision and maintained the correct transfer date had 
been used. 
It said the transfer couldnt proceed until the correct ID documents were received, and at 
each stage Mr Gs identification was reviewed at a more senior level as it fell outside their 
procedures for acceptable ID. It pointed out that when further ID was requested the same 
documents were re-sent. 
In response to why Mr Gs policy had been disinvested in November 2021 if its requirements 
hadnt been met, Aviva replied that it appeared from a processing point of view that all 
requirements were received, so stage one of processing the payment commenced. But 
when the transaction was checked by a senior representative they said that not all 
requirements had been received, so they asked for further documents/ID. 
Mr Gs adviser responded and made the following points (in summary):
She had completed a large number of pension transfers over the years including 
Aviva, and this is the worst service shed experienced in her whole career. 
The transfer questionnaire is never supplied with the transfer documents but 
produced by Aviva once it received the transfer pack from the receiving scheme 
(Momentum in this case).
The questionnaire is sent direct to the client and includes duplicate questions as the 
transfer pack, in order to ensure the client understands the implications and isnt 
being scammed. Mr G completed this questionnaire and provided it to Aviva three 
times.
Aviva confirmed to Momentum several times that all its requirements were met, and 
the transfer would proceed in 5-7 days, on each occasion this was a lie. 
Mr Gs funds were impacted by market turmoil from the war in Ukraine, his funds 
were disinvested but not transferred for a whole year which is unacceptable.
A pension transfer is a long, complex process and requires advice, suitability report, 
illustrations etc. But the clock started when the forms were signed and sent to Aviva, 
which was in December 2020. 
The same certified ID was accepted by Mr Gs five other pension companies without 
an issue.
Avivas requirements were met in November 2021, which is still a long time after the 
process started.
But the funds didnt arrive for nearly a further year, during which time Momentum had 
to carry out additional work it hadnt needed to do for any of the other transfers. 
If an adviser treated Mr G the same way as Aviva, they would lose their job and 
rightly so. 
Mr G is a French not UK resident so is subject to French not UK tax, the rate for 
which is 30%. There is no entitlement to tax-free cash in France, so the notional 
adjustment should reflect this.
Mr G himself also responded, and made the following points (in summary):
He wanted to emphasise that his funds were disinvested during 2021 but not paid to 
Momentum until August 2022.He didnt understand why the funds were disinvested in November 2021, or how his 
policy was valued when it was transferred. 
So he wanted to ensure the loss calculation would reflect the difference between the 
disinvestment value, and when the funds were transferred.
He had asked Aviva for statements to show the performance of his policy since 
October 2020, but these have not been provided. 
Avivas claim that his identity documents caused the delay is disingenuous, and 
Aviva benefitted financially from delaying the transfer. 
One of Avivas employees had admitted the passport photograph was legible but had 
been rendered illegible by its own scanning process.
Aviva should be able to detail a chain of custody about what was received and 
when.
He is a French resident not a French citizen
If the compensation is paid to him in cash rather than into his pension plan, it should 
be treated as a drawdown and still enable him to take tax-free cash. 
Its unfair a notional adjustment will be made for tax and then hell actually pay 
French tax on the amount received (with credit for UK tax paid) so hes being 
penalised for Avivas failures. 
He has not received any apology from Aviva or the policy valuations he requested. 
The other pension monies should be included in the loss calculations, as they werent 
invested while waiting for the Aviva funds.
He suspects Aviva may have misfiled the original documents, as he had two firms of 
advisers one in Spain and S in France.
He doesnt accept his is the only transfer to a QROPS ever dealt with by Aviva.
The eighteen-month timescale is completely unreasonable, he was told several times 
everything was in order, and even Avivas own staff couldnt explain why it was taking 
so long.
Aviva could have contacted him to resolve issues as it had his UK and French mobile 
numbers and email address. 
Its too generous to attribute Avivas failings to confusion and lack of clear procedures 
following the UK's departure from the EU. They are a large company with significant 
resources (both financial and legal) and should have been able to determine what the 
Brexit impact was prior to the UKs departure.
The whole process has been excruciatingly painful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So Im now in a position to issue the final decision.
Im aware how stressful the situation was for Mr G, particularly during the time when his 
policy had been disinvested but not transferred. His funds were in limbo, at risk of losing 
investment growth during a period of market volatility. And he couldnt proceed with the full 
investment in the bond including the Aviva monies, as planned. 
Aviva has provided very limited information or explanation about why the transfer took so 
long. There were certainly some issues with the efficiency of its administration, with forms 
going missing, and information requested which had previously been received. Avivas 
unfamiliarity with a transfer to a QROPS and the additional complications arising from Brexit 
shouldnt have had such an impact on Mr G. I think someone in Aviva with the relevant 
knowledge and experience should have taken ownership, kept him updated and explained 
the reason for the delays, and what still needed to happen. The communication with Mr G and his adviser was poor, misleading and wasnt proactive, meaning they were both put to 
additional trouble repeatedly chasing Aviva. And Aviva didnt treat Mr G fairly when it told 
him or his adviser more than once that its requirements were met, and the transfer was 
progressing when it wasnt. I dont find Aviva deliberately lied or delayed the transfer to 
benefit financially. But I think having disinvested Mr Gs policy, when it decided to delay the 
transfer further Aviva should have given him the option to reinvest them until such time it 
could go ahead. It wasnt reasonable for a major element of his retirement provision to be 
out of the market for so long without his agreement. 
It seems the substantive delay between disinvestment and transfer was caused by Avivas 
process for verifying Mr Gs identity to its satisfaction. Theres no dispute that Aviva needed 
to confirm Mr Gs identity and ensure it was acting on legitimate instructions, to comply with 
regulatory and fraud prevention requirements. But its not clear why Aviva went further than 
its own guidance, which said it would accept original or copy documents, but only someone 
living outside the UK or Europe would need copies to be certified. As Mr G was resident in 
Europe he shouldve been able to submit copies of his documents without needing them to 
be certified. And in any case, all the copies of documents Mr G submitted had been certified 
by his financial adviser Ms H. In response to the provisional decision, Aviva said Mr Gs ID 
didnt meet its requirements without saying why not. So as far as I can tell this was due to 
uncertainty over whether they had been certified by one of the acceptable categories of 
person. I say this as Aviva accepted the documents certified by Mr Gs local mayor but not 
by his financial adviser. 
I think if Aviva wasnt sure who had certified Mr Gs ID or wouldnt accept documents 
certified by Ms H it should have queried this straight away. It wasnt helpful to simply say the 
ID documents didnt meet its criteria without explaining why, when clearly Mr G had 
submitted his genuine passport, and there was no real doubt hed authorised the transfer. 
Aviva said the photo wasnt legible, so it needed a clearer copy, but I dont think that was 
necessary, as the certification process confirms the original has been seen and is a true 
likeness to Mr G. I think if Aviva had explained its requirement at the outset, any delay 
wouldve been avoided, as Mr G would have got his ID documents certified by the mayor 
and not wasted time and effort submitting multiple copies of his ID documents certified by Ms 
H.  
So for this reason, I still think but for its poor administration and service, Avivas 
requirements could have been met in full much earlier. So it would have been in a position to 
disinvest Mr Gs funds in August 2021 and transfer them to Quilter/Tilney shortly after that 
minimising the time he remained uninvested. 
So I uphold this complaint and require Aviva to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
My aim here is to put Mr G as close as possible to the position hed a have been in if his 
policy had been disinvested in August 2021 and the proceeds transferred to Quilter/Tilney in 
September 2021 to enable it to be invested in line with his other funds.  
Aviva should first clarify the date Mr Gs policy was disinvested (it has variously been 
mentioned as happening during October or November 2021) and confirm the actual 
disinvestment value (Value A). It should then calculate what the value of Mr Gs 
policy would have been had it been disinvested on 3 August 2021 (Value B). If value 
B is higher than value A then value B should be used in the loss calculation. If value 
A, the actual disinvestment figure is higher, then that figure should be used in the 
loss calculation. And then Aviva should liaise with Mr Gs new provider to carry out a loss calculation 
based on value A (or B) being transferred to Momentum in September 2021 and then 
invested with Tilney in November 2021. 
To do this Aviva should obtain a current valuation of Mr Gs QROPS and compare it 
with the notional value if value A (or B) had been added to it and invested in 
November 2021. 
If the notional value is lower than the actual value then no compensation is payable. 
But if the notional value is higher than the actual value then there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. 
If there is a loss Aviva should pay into Mr Gs QROPS to increase its value by the 
amount of compensation plus any interest. The amount paid should allow for charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Aviva isnt able to pay the compensation into Mr Gs pension, it should pay the sum 
to him in cash. But as the purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement 
which would be taxable, the compensation paid in cash should be reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax which would otherwise have been paid. This is a 
notional deduction, no actual tax is paid to the authorities.  
For a UK taxpayer, typically 25% of pension income can be taken tax-free with the 
remainder taxed at their likely tax rate in retirement. But Mr G is a French not UK 
resident and subject to French rather than UK tax rules. As there is no such tax-free 
entitlement under French law, the notional tax deduction must be applied to the full 
amount of compensation. 
Mr G has confirmed his likely tax rate at retirement in France will be 30%. So for the 
purpose of this decision, if the compensation has to be paid to Mr G in cash rather 
than into his pension, Aviva should reduce it by 30% to notionally reflect the tax hed 
otherwise have paid. 
To avoid further unreasonable delays, the compensation should be paid within 28 
days of Aviva being notified of Mr Gs acceptance of my final decision. Interest 
should be added at a rate of 8% simple per year for any period over 28 days to the 
date of settlement, unless the reason for the delay is outside of Avivas control. 
The calculations of the compensation should be provided to Mr G in a clear and easy 
to understand format. 
Aviva should also provide Mr G with the copy statements he has requested, so he 
can see the value of his policy from 2020 to the point it was disinvested. 
Aviva should pay Mr G £650 for the trouble and upset the delay caused him.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman