DRN-4344109
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who declined her 
claim under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs D held a home emergency policy with RSA. She explained that her boiler broke down 
following an annual service that RSA conducted. She said that she instructed an 
independent engineer when the boiler was working intermittently to carry out repairs. This 
was completed and Mrs D paid the invoice in full. 
Mrs D contacted RSA to obtain a reimbursement of her costs. RSA declined to reimburse 
the costs due to the policy terms and conditions. And moreover, as Mrs D hadnt obtained 
any prior permission for her to use an engineer of her choice. Further, RSA said that as the 
boiler was working albeit intermittently, this wouldnt be classed as an emergency and so 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Mrs D complained to RSA, but it maintained its position in its final response.  Mrs D was 
given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the work that Mrs 
Ds engineer had carried out hadnt been pre-authorised and was more akin to maintenance, 
which wasnt covered under the policy. So, he was unable to recommend that RSA 
reimburse Mrs Ds costs. 
RSA accepted the view, Mrs D did not. She asked for an ombudsman to review all the 
evidence. She said: 
The RSAs view is WRONG! The Boiler broke down on 1 September 2022. RSA were 
informed that due to the cancellation of their Annual Plumbing Contract, agreed with by RSA, 
there was no alternative to using a previous plumber, to facilitate this NECESSARY repair. 
Furthermore, at no time over the last 10 years, has the Boiler, not had an ANNUAL BOILER 
CHECK (documental proof evident). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs D, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered all the evidence and comments provided to me by both parties. I think the 
main issue of this complaint is whether RSA was fair to decline to reimburse Mrs Ds costs. 
I can see that Mrs D chose to instruct an independent engineer to carry out some work on 
her boiler. This followed an annual service that RSA had completed. On review of the 
invoice, it states that a full descale of the boiler had taken place and a cleanse of the unit, 
due to scale deposits. I think the work carried out was more akin to maintenance rather than 
anything else.
In addition, I have listened to the call recording between Mrs Ds representative and RSA. In 
it, the representative confirms that the boiler was working intermittently. In that he said that 
the water had to be run on occasion, for hot water to be generated. He also confirmed that 
the boiler was able to operate manually. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what RSAs obligations were under the 
policy, and whether there were any exclusions.
RSA said that it declined to reimburse Mrs Ds costs under a number of terms and conditions 
of the policy, including some exclusions. The first term states: 
WE DO NOT COVER: 9. Where a boiler can be operated manually to resolve the loss of hot 
water and/or heating.
Ive had a thought about what this means, and I think its clear that there will be no cover for 
any issue with a boiler, where it can still be operated manually. As Mrs D confirmed that her 
boiler was still operational manually, then I dont think it was unfair for RSA to decline to 
reimburse for this reason. 
In addition, RSA outlined what it does cover: 
WHAT WE COVER: We will provide assistance in an emergency following the complete 
breakdown of the domestic boiler and/or central heating system which results in the 
complete loss of heating and/or hot water or a leak from the boiler. We will pay a contribution 
of up to £50 towards the cost of purchase or hire by you (upon production of an original 
receipt for payment) of alternative heating sources where these are deemed necessary in 
the event that the primary heating system has failed completely and it is not possible to 
reinstate the heating. Claims related to other forms of primary heating, such as oil or LPG 
may be settled on a reimbursement basis if an authorised contractor is not available at the 
time in your local area. 
Again, Ive had a thought about this, and Im satisfied that it will only help where there has 
been a complete breakdown of the boiler. Mrs D confirmed that the boiler worked 
intermittently. So, Im satisfied that there hadnt been a complete breakdown of the boiler. 
Consequently, I think RSA was fair to decline to reimburse Mrs Ds costs under this term 
also. 
Ive next considered the policy exclusions and I can see that there are two exclusions that 
RSA had relied upon. These are: 
15. A breakdown where an engineer has previously identified that remedial/ maintenance 
work is required to prevent a future breakdown and the recommended work has not been 
carried out. 
16. Any maintenance or remedial work identified during an annual boiler service.
Following the annual service, RSAs engineer informed Mrs D that there would be follow-up 
work and replacement parts were required. I understand from RSA, that Mrs D had indicated 
to its engineer that further works had already been booked in. Given that RSA had provided evidence to show that further work was recommended. And 
the evidence provided from Mrs Ds engineer that indicated that the work amounted to 
maintenance, I dont think RSA was unfair to rely on the policy exclusions, when it declined 
to cover Mrs Ds engineers costs. 
Finally, RSA also relied on the specific annual service policy exclusion which states:
Boiler servicing will be completed in accordance with the current Gas Safety Regulations. 
Please make sure that you have the manufacturers instructions available for the engineer 
when they attend. Please note that remedial or maintenance work is not included as part of 
your boiler service. 
Im aware that Mrs D said that she was given prior authority to have the works carried out by 
RSA, but I havent been provided with any evidence that supports this. In any event, from the 
policy its clear that prior authority would need to be obtained before any reimbursement is 
authorised. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs D will be, I dont 
think RSA had been unfair or unreasonable in not agreeing to reimburse her costs. 
Im satisfied that RSA fairly declined the claim under the policy terms, exclusions and 
conditions. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask RSA to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman