DRN-3240736
The complaint
Mr B says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Mr B. 
The account was opened in April 2017 with Mr B being given an initial credit limit of £125. 
This limit was increased 4 times until it reached £750 in December 2017. 
Mr Bs account was frozen in August 2018 after hed missed 7 payments. It was then sold 
on to a third party.
Mr B says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit when he 
was only making minimum payments each month and was experiencing financial difficulty.
Our adjudicator said that, based on the limited information he had about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances, he didnt think J D Williams had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. They also thought that although J D Williams hadnt always completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before approving each credit limit 
increase, had it done so it would likely still have concluded that each credit limit increase 
was affordable. 
As Mr B didnt agree his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
J D Williams says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Mr Bs account and 
increasing his credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why he didnt think that 
J D Williams  lent to Mr B irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Mr B, so as to see if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean 
J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Mr Bs credit limits.
When Mr B opened his account in April 2007, J D Williams says there were no signs of 
financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and taking into 
account the low opening credit limit of £125 he was given, I dont think there is anything to 
suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have approved the 
account. J D Williams didnt ask about Mr Bs income, and this may have helped it begin to 
build a picture of his financial circumstances. 
Ive also kept in mind that at the time he opened his account and was given the credit limit 
increases, Mr B and his wife were already in a debt management plan that had been 
arranged for him by Step Change. However, I see that Mr B hasnt been able to give us 
other information about his financial situation at the time, such as bank statements. That 
makes it difficult to see whether proportionate checks carried by J D Williams would have 
shown Mr B was having difficulty finding the money to make payments to his account.
Looking at the first two credit limit increases J D Williams gave Mr B, I agree with out 
adjudicator that it would have been helpful for J D Williams to have found out more about 
Mr Bs financial situation. But from what Mr B has told us about his income at the time, had it 
done so I think its likely it would have found that the minimum payments Mr B was making 
on his account showed it was affordable. 
When J D Williams gave Mr B two further credit limit increases, in November and 
December 2017, I think it should have requested details of Mr Bs income, daily 
expenditure and debts owing elsewhere. The fact that Mr B had missed two consecutive 
monthly payments and had incurred arrears  albeit of only £18  ought to have prompted 
J D Williams to take that further step. Overall, however, our adjudicator thought there 
wasnt enough to show that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty to the extent that 
J D Williams shouldnt have increased his credit limit at this time. 
Having reviewed the complaint in detail, Ive reached the same outcome as our adjudicator. 
I dont think the information we have about Mr Bs financial situation at the time is enough 
to be able to find that had J D Williams carried out additional checks, it would have found 
these credit limit increases to be unsustainable. Ive also seen that up to November 2017, 
Mr B was managing his account in such a way that he wasnt using a significant proportion 
of the credit limit that J D Williams had made available to him. Also, from what Ive seen 
about the debt management plan that Mr B and his wife entered into before opening their 
account, it doesnt seem that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulties that could have 
made the account unaffordable to him. Ive also noticed that Mr B appears not to have told 
J D Williams about the existence of the plan. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think J D Williams 
actions in increasing the limit first to £600 and then £750 would have caused Mr B any 
loss. I also dont consider that Mr Bs account history up to December 2017 necessarily 
suggested his financial situation was worsening. And Im not persuaded that further 
enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances would have led J D Williams to conclude that it 
should have taken a course of action that was significantly different to what it did. 
So, although I dont think J D Williams actions were necessarily appropriate in all 
respects, I dont make any award as I dont think Mr B was caused any loss or material 
distress or inconvenience as a result.
Did J D Williams act unfairly in any other way?Ive seen that Mr B got into difficulty with his account at the beginning of 2018 when he 
started incurring further arrears fees. But there was no further spending by Mr B on his 
account after January 2018. The account was subsequently put into default in August 2018. 
Prior to that I see that J D Williams wrote to Mr B on 12 occasions before defaulting his 
account and freezing the account so that it could no longer be used. The account debt was 
then sold on to a third party in October 2018.
I therefore dont think theres enough evidence or information to suggest that J D Williams 
treated Mr B unfairly once he started getting into difficulty with his account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman