DRN-1637927
 
The complaint
Mr P complains to Phoenix Life Limited on behalf of his mother, Mrs P, and his late father, 
Mr P2. 
Mr P has found an uncashed cheque issued to his parents in 1993 and asks Phoenix to 
reissue it in his mothers name. 
What happened
A number of years ago, Mr P2 and Mrs P invested in a capital investment bond with an 
investment company later bought out by Phoenix. 
Mr P2 unfortunately passed away in 2001. In 2018, Mrs P granted financial power of 
attorney to Mr P. In the course of organising her papers, around May 2019 he found an 
uncashed cheque written out to Mr P2 and Mrs P  the cheque was for just over £16,200 
and was issued in December 1993. 
Mr P got in touch with Phoenix to ask them to reissue the cheque in Mrs Ps sole name 
seeing as his father had passed away.
It took some time for Phoenix to look into Mr Ps query  an answer wasnt given to him until 
late August 2019. 
Phoenix said they couldnt see there was unclaimed money in relation to the investment 
reference number, so this meant it was likely the cheque was reissued and paid out. But 
they did agree they hadnt provided a good service to Mr P in looking into this for him  so 
they offered £200 to apologise for the delays, lack of call backs and lack of progress 
throughout the complaint.
Mr P wasnt happy with this. Phoenix reconsidered their position given that Mr P2 was poorly 
and in hospital when the cheque was originally issued. But ultimately remained of the view 
that it was more likely than not that the payment was made. They did, however, recognise 
that despite saying they would issue Mr P a cheque for the £200 compensation, they hadnt 
done this. So instead they transferred £300 to Mr Ps bank account. 
Mr P remained unhappy with this outcome so he asked for our help. The case was looked 
into by one of our investigators. He reviewed Phoenixs decision but didnt agree the cheque 
should be reissued to Mrs P. While there was little information about what might have 
happened with the investment proceeds, he didnt think this was unusual given that the 
cheque was issued some 26 years ago. He explained what he knew about Phoenixs 
processes for handling situations like these, but from everything hed seen there wasnt 
enough to suggest the money wasnt ultimately paid out. 
Mr P remained unhappy with this. He made a number of points which are briefly summarised 
below:he didnt think another cheque had been issued  he explained his father was in 
hospital in late 1993 so the cheque would have been filed away with his paperwork. 
Mrs P wasnt involved with their finances and given Mr P2 was ill for a number of 
years thereafter, the cheque is unlikely to have been reissued
he explained his relevant employment history and understanding of situations such 
as these, he felt there was a risk that the balance wouldve been written off long 
before Phoenix bought the previous company out
he said that the payment was likely to have been made when the bond matured or 
was closed  so while the investment wasnt now active, this didnt mean the 
proceeds had necessarily been claimed
he was told by a member of staff at Phoenix that the cheque hadnt been cashed
and overall he felt that the absence of evidence ought to be in favour of his 86 year 
old mother, rather than in favour of the multi-national company that is Phoenix
 
Because an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr P understandably has very strong feelings about this complaint. He 
has provided detailed submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. 
Given the amount of money involved, I can appreciate why Mr P would like Phoenix to 
provide proof as to what happened here  and in the absence of that, to reissue the cheque 
in Mrs Ps name. But given the passage of time, its difficult for us to be certain as to what 
happened here. 
There isnt much information available for us to review now  but this is something which, as 
our investigator said, isnt surprising given the number of years that have gone by. Phoenix 
are only required to keep records for six years and we are dealing with something here from 
26 years ago involving a company bought out by Phoenix some 18 years later. Despite that, 
there are ways and means of investigating queries like this now, so Ive looked at the 
available evidence provided by Mr P, as well as Phoenix, to decide whether the decision not 
to reissue a cheque at this stage is reasonable.
The cheque Mr P has provided shows his mother and father had an investment with the 
previous company. And I dont think its unreasonable to assume that, as Mr P says, the 
issuance of the cheque was most likely following the maturity or closure of that bond. 
Indeed, Phoenix say the bond was paid up in 1990 and matured on 16 December 1993. 
Phoenix have explained that when they bought the previous investment company out, the 
process for claims that had not been paid or cheques that had not been cashed was that the 
sum would be transferred onto an unpaid legacy system. Phoenix can search this system 
and enquire within their finance department with regards to any unpaid money  but it will 
not return a result if a policy has been claimed or a cheque was reissued and paid out.
I have seen evidence of the searches Phoenix have done to try and trace this investment 
and the error message that their system now presents  no matches found  when a 
search is run using the reference number on the paperwork issued with the cheque.Ive also seen the results of a search on Mrs Ps details. This returns seven different 
investments, six being active and one being surrendered. But nothing with the same 
investment reference number as was printed on the cheque paperwork.
While I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr P, I must say that I am satisfied with Phoenixs 
search efforts and that it does not appear they are holding any unclaimed proceeds for his 
parents. I do take his point that the balance may have been written off by the previous 
investment company. But Phoenix have explained they took on a legacy book from the 
company  so this sort of instance had been accounted for. 
Despite the health difficulties Mr P2 suffered, it was eight years before he passed away so 
even if he wasnt overseeing his finances around the time, it isnt impossible that a second 
cheque or alternative payment could have been made. 
I take Mr Ps point in that there is no evidence of this, but Phoenix isnt required to hold on to 
records for this long and is under certain obligations, due to data protection laws, to destroy 
information that is deemed to be no longer relevant. So the fact that they cannot show us 
that a new cheque was issued doesnt automatically mean that Mr P2 and Mrs P didnt 
receive the funds in question or that this complaint should be upheld. Instead, Phoenix have 
shown us that records for outstanding amounts of money owed do not get destroyed  
instead these records remain relevant for as long as the money is owed. And as I said 
above, these searches have not shown any outstanding amounts due.
In situations such as these, we must make a decision on the balance of probabilities, and 
from everything that I have seen here it doesnt seem that Phoenix have unfairly declined to 
reissue this cheque. They have shown us that processes are in place for these sorts of 
occasions but that Mr P2 and Mrs Ps money doesnt seem to be on any of their records. So 
there is not enough for me to conclude Phoenix still holds this money. And any reference to 
the cheque not being cashed may well have been because Mr P clearly holds the original. 
It is not the case that our service would, as Mr P suggests, simply favour his mother against 
a large company. We are an impartial service and in situations such as these I must make 
my decision on what is most likely to have happened  taking into account the information I 
do have. And having done so, I cannot see that any unclaimed money remains. 
I do agree Phoenix could have handled this query better for Mr P though  despite the time it 
takes to work with archives and various departments. But I am pleased to see they have 
compensated him for the delays and lack of updates. 
I appreciate Mr P and his mother will be disappointed by my decision but on balance Im not 
persuaded that Phoenix needs to reissue the cheque. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman