DRN-3660823
The complaint
Mr H says National Westminster Bank Plcs payment error caused him to miss out on £500 
commission on a short-term loan he was extending to a regular payee. 
What happened
Mr H had one current account (account A) with a zero balance and one (account B) with a 
credit balance. He called NatWest to make a payment of £10,000 from account B. In error 
the adviser tried to process it from account A and so the transfer failed when it got to its due 
date. Mr H was later told by NatWest that he could go online and increase his daily limit to 
£20,000 which would allow the transfer to be made. Mr H said his payee obtained the funds 
from elsewhere as there was a deadline. This meant he lost out on the 10% commission he 
was due to receive. He wants the bank to make him good for this loss. 
NatWest said in the absence of an agreement showing the terms of this commission 
arrangement, and the time-sensitivity of the payment, it could not compensate Mr H for this 
loss. But it paid him £50 for the inconvenience caused, and waived the £2.15 unpaid 
transaction fee. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said NatWest had accepted it made 
an error when it tried to debit the payment from account A. But it had later told Mr H that he 
could increase his daily payment limit and then the payment could be sent online from 
account B. She said without more conclusive evidence of the financial loss Mr H says he 
suffered, as result of the failed payment, she could not fairly hold the bank liable. She found 
the compensation NatWest had offered for the inconvenience its initial error caused to be 
fair.
Unhappy with this assessment, saying he still felt there had been an injustice, Mr H asked 
for an ombudsmans review. He had previously supplied account statements that show 
regular transactions between him and the payee, as well as text messages about the 
payment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest accepted it made an error when it tried to debit account A. I find the £50 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused Mr H to be fair given he had to take some 
time to contact the bank and resolve this. But I havent seen enough evidence to fairly 
conclude that its error created a financial loss for Mr H. This is my finding for two reasons. 
Firstly, Mr H has been unable to supply any documentation to support his claimed loss. 
Whilst I can see money moved between the payee and Mr Hs account its not clear on what 
terms, and the text messages he has provided do not give any further clarity. Whilst they 
reference the £10,000 payment, there is no mention of a commission payment to be sent in 
return to Mr H. 
And secondly, Mr H said the money had to be sent by a certain time and as it wasnt the 
payee went elsewhere for the money. But again he has provided no supporting 
documentation to show the transaction was time-sensitive. The text messages show that 
when the payee acknowledges receipt on Tuesday 19 April 2021 he gives no indication that 
its too late or that he has used funds from elsewhere, rather he says, Just come through 
thank you!!. 
Overall, it follows I will not be asking NatWest to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman