DRN-4215189
The complaint
Mr H has complained that pension contributions amounting to around £28,000 were lost by 
Scottish Widows Limited for several months. They have since been applied to his pension 
plan, but Mr H remains uncertain as to whether this has been done properly and is 
dissatisfied with the amount which Scottish Widows has offered him in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error.
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
The complaint is in relation to a pension plan Mr H has held with Scottish Widows since April 
2005.
Scottish Widows records indicate that it sent Mr H a letter on 26 November 2022 saying that 
it had received payments (I understand this was seven contributions) into his policy from an 
unrecognised source, and so it asked him to confirm the full name of the employer, its 
address, its relationship to Mr H and the gross/net amount which was being contributed.
It said that it would take no action until these details were confirmed.
Scottish Widows file notes then recorded that, as it hadnt received any information
regarding the new employer, a refund was set up to return the funds. But its policy servicing 
team returned a lump sum payment to the employer details held on file (Mr Hs old 
employer), rather than return the payment to the remitting bank account.
The reason for this was that Scottish Widows hadnt updated its system and, as a result, 
didnt recognise the contributions which had started originating from Mr Hs new employer. 
So, instead of refunding the payments to the unrecognised sender, it returned them to the 
old employer which still showed on its system as Mr Hs active employer.
Mr H believed that, as his previous employer was no longer trading, the missing funds would 
have been automatically returned, but this didnt happen as the recipient bank account was 
still active. 
Scottish Widows completed the tracing process and applied the missing contributions to the 
policy to ensure, it said, that Mr H wasnt in a financially disadvantageous position due to the 
error. This was completed on 27 March 2023.
Scottish Widows also updated its system to reflect Mr Hs current employer, which would 
prevent any further similar problems going forward.
In addition, Scottish Widows offered to pay Mr H £750 for the trouble and upset he 
experienced as a result of the delays and multiple errors, combined with poor service. 
Scottish Widows also undertook a loss adjustment to ensure that Mr Hs policy value wasnt 
lower than its notional value, but for the error. Scottish Widows confirmed that the actual net 
total figure which was applied to Mr Hs policy was £35,082.02. The gross figure was 
£43,215.02. 
Scottish Widows also confirmed the current value of Mr Hs policy (£77,623, as at March 
2023) and offered its apology for what had happened, along with the inconvenience caused. 
It acknowledged that Mr H had experienced poor service in trying to resolve the matter, but 
said that it hoped it would have the opportunity to correct this in in the future.
Dissatisfied with the outcome, however, Mr H referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator set out his assessment of the matter on 27 June 2023, saying that he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He said the following in summary:
He noted that Mr H hadnt informed Scottish Widows of his new employer, or replied 
to its contact asking him to confirm the relevant details.
Hed also considered the remedial actions which Scottish Widows had taken to 
resolve the matter  he agreed that it had been slow to act, but had ultimately placed 
Mr H in the position he should have been but for the error.
The investigator referred to a table produced by Scottish Widows which he said 
demonstrated that the missing contributions had been applied correctly to Mr Hs 
pension plan.
With regard to the £750 payment offered by Scottish Widows, the investigator 
considered it in the context of the guidance issued by this service and thought it was 
consistent with the type of award that this service would make in similar 
circumstances. He added that such awards werent meant to be punitive.
Mr H disagreed, however saying that hed seen little analysis within the investigators 
assessment of Scottish widows having lost around £50,000 of pension contributions and 
paying it to his old employer, along with the six months of distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused.
Mr H added that pension companies are supposed to safeguard policyholders money and 
Scottish Widows had clearly failed in this regard.
The £750 payment didnt compensate him for the above issues, Mr H said. And so he asked 
that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for review.
The investigator reassured Mr H that hed considered all the aspects of the complaint, but as 
requested, said that he would be referring the matter to an ombudsman.
At my request, the investigator contacted Scottish Widows to ask it to confirm that it had 
applied the contributions to Mr Hs policy correctly, i.e. as at the date that they should have 
been applied. Scottish Widows referred to the spreadsheet it has already provided as 
evidence that the policy has been properly reconstructed to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I broadly agree with the investigator that Scottish Widows has taken 
appropriate steps here to put matters right.
I dont think its disputed that Scottish Widows let Mr H down here and he would quite 
understandably have been very concerned about his missing pension contributions. And I 
can understand why he still feels that Scottish Widows has failed him.
But the purpose of this service is to effectively right financial wrongs. Had Scottish Widows 
not taken the steps it had to correct the error, then I would have directed it to undertake the 
same process  i.e. ensure that the contributions have been applied correctly and that Mr H 
hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the error. This would be, in essence, a 
reconstruction of the policy through the application of the payments as at the dates they 
should have been received into the policy. And the current value of Mr Hs policy should 
reflect that this has happened.
Overall, on the basis of the available evidence and confirmation from Scottish Widows that 
this has been implemented properly, Im satisfied that this is likely to be the case. 
And so Ive then thought about the matter of an appropriate payment in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H.
But as with the investigator, I need to be mindful of the types of award that his service might 
typically make in similar situations  and I would echo his comment that it wouldnt be 
designed to be punitive for Scottish Widows. Rather, we consider the likely overall impact on 
Mr H, which as Ive said above would have been significant amounts of concern caused to 
him, and then inconvenience in having to try to resolve the matter. 
But thinking about the types of award that this service would make in similar situations, and 
whilst I know Mr H disagrees, I think the £750 offered by Scottish Widows is probably about 
right. And as with the investigator, I would refer him to our online guidance which sets out 
the types of scenarios for which we might make certain awards.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. My 
understanding is that the £750 has already been paid, but if it hasnt, then Scottish Widows 
Limited should pay this to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman