DRN-3719673
The complaint
Mr G complains that Fairstone Financial Management Limited (Fairstone) delayed in 
providing all of the information needed to process a pension transfer application. He feels 
hes suffered a financial loss as a result. 
What happened
Mr G previously held a pension with safeguarded benefits with a provider Ill refer to as R. 
He was intending to transfer the plan to another provider Ill call A. R quoted a transfer value 
of £91,734.95, which it said was guaranteed until 7 February 2020. Due to the safeguarded 
benefits involved, Mr G was required to seek financial advice before the transfer could go 
ahead. He approached Fairstone for that advice, which it subsequently gave him. 
Mr G opted to transfer his pension, so Fairstone completed the necessary paperwork. On 
page one of the financial advice confirmation form (FAC) that Fairstone was required to 
complete, R said before we can process a request which would result in the loss of 
safeguarded benefits, well need you to complete this form and return it to us with a 
covering letter on your firms headed paper (the emphasis in bold is as its displayed on 
Rs form). 
Fairstone signed the FAC on 3 February 2020 and R appears to have received it on or 
around 5 February 2020. However, Fairstone didnt provide the covering letter that R also 
asked for. So, the transfer didnt proceed by the deadline due to that omission. And when the 
pension was eventually transferred on 1 April 2020 (after Fairstone provided the covering 
letter on or around 17 March 2020) the transfer value had dropped to £85,723.99. Mr G later 
complained to Fairstone. 
In its response Fairstone acknowledged that a covering letter wasnt provided to R. 
However, it felt the information that was subsequently provided on the covering letter in 
March 2020 was merely a duplicate of information that had already been given to R on the 
FAC. And the FAC was provided to R before the expiry date of the guaranteed transfer 
value. So, as far as Fairstone was concerned, it was entirely Rs decision not to process the 
transfer on the basis of there being no covering letter. It didnt think it should be held 
responsible for any financial loss Mr G felt hed suffered. 
Mr G complained to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and, 
whilst noting the comments that Fairstone had made, he concluded that the instructions 
concerning information that had to be submitted were pretty clear. Therefore, he felt the 
failure to comply couldnt have been down to any other party but Fairstone. So, the 
investigator felt it was Fairstones responsibility to put things right by running a loss 
calculation to see what the guaranteed value of £91,734.95 would be worth if that amount 
had been transferred instead of £85,723.99. If that calculation indicated there had been a 
loss, then he said that amount should be paid into Mr Gs pension. The investigator also 
recommended that Fairstone pay Mr G compensation of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Fairstone didnt agree with the investigator and made a number of points in response. Those 
included that it felt R was more culpable than had been suggested. And whilst Fairstone 
accepted it didnt meet the February 2020 deadline (and so accepted the recommendation to 
pay compensation of £150), it didnt feel it should be held 100% responsible for the loss of 
the guaranteed transfer value. Fairstone also pointed out that even once R had the missing 
information on or around 17 March 2020, it didnt complete the transfer process until 1 April 
2020. So, even if there hadnt been missing information, it felt it wasnt certain the transfer 
would have gone ahead by the due date. And whilst appearing to accept that R is entitled to 
ask for a covering letter if it wants one, Fairstone didnt think R had explained why it needed 
it seeing as there is no regulatory requirement to provide one. It added that if the investigator 
still felt that it was responsible, it wanted the matter to be referred to an Ombudsman. The 
investigator considered Fairstones comments, but they didnt change his opinion overall. So, 
the matters been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im intending to reach the same outcome as our investigator for similar 
reasons. My approach to redress is also largely the same, although Ive instructed Fairstone 
to run the loss calculation from a slightly later date. Ive set out the reasons for that within 
this decision and Ive told Fairstone and Mr G about this slight amendment in advance of 
sending the decision. 
Fairstone feels strongly that R should shoulder some of the responsibility for any loss that Mr 
G may have suffered. Its basis for saying so seems to be that there was no regulatory 
reason for R to hold things up whilst waiting for additional confirmation from Fairstone on 
letter headed paper. And even once it had the information, Fairstones pointed out that it still 
took R about 15 days to complete the transfer.
I appreciate the points that Fairstone makes here. But whether there is or there isnt a 
regulatory requirement doesnt really matter. As Fairstone itself concedes, R was entitled to 
satisfy itself that advice had been given (in order to comply with its regulatory 
responsibilities) in whatever form it chose to. If it had been a question of R not making things 
clear, I may well have formed a different opinion. But thats not the case. On the front of its 
FAC Rs instruction clearly stated well need you to complete this form and return it to us 
with a covering letter on your firms headed paper. So, I think R made it perfectly clear 
what it needed to receive, and by what date, in order to ensure that the guaranteed transfer 
value could be honoured. And as Fairstone didnt send all of that information, it follows that I 
think its omission resulted in the loss of the guaranteed transfer value. 
I noted some of Fairstones other points too, including that once R did receive the 
confirmation from Fairstone on headed notepaper, it didnt process the transfer straight 
away. Thats my understanding too from the evidence Ive seen. But, as I understand the 
position, providing that R had all of the paperwork it asked for before the expiry date, it 
agreed to honour the transfer value. 
So, the bottom line here is that for whatever reason, Fairstone didnt include all of the 
information R asked for by the expiry date. Thats not in dispute. And the consequence of 
that was that Mr G missed out on the higher transfer value. So, in those circumstances, I 
think Fairstone is responsible for any financial loss Mr G might have suffered. However, the 
time taken for R to complete the transfer is relevant when it comes to working out the extent of any financial loss Mr G might have suffered, so Ive taken that into account when setting 
out below how Fairstone should put things right. 
Putting things right
I need to try to put Mr G back into the position he would have been in  or as close to that 
position as possible  had Fairstone done what it needed to. 
Had things happened as expected, R would have transferred the full value of £91,734.95 to 
provider A rather than £85,723.99. It took R 15 days to complete the transfer process. So, if 
R had had everything it needed on or around 5 February 2020 (including the confirmation on 
letter headed paper along with the other information it received on that day such as the 
FAC), it seems likely the transfer would have happened on or around 20 February 2020. 
Thats around 41 days before the transfer actually happened.  
So, Fairstone should now find out from provider A what the notional value of Mr Gs pension 
would be now had £91,734.95 been transferred (as opposed to the lower value of 
£85,723.99) on 20 February 2020 and invested in exactly the same funds 41 days earlier 
than they actually were. It should compare that with the actual value. If the actual value of Mr 
Gs pension is lower at the date of my decision than the notional value, the difference is the 
loss that Mr G has likely suffered. Fairstone should allow for the impact of charges and any 
withdrawals or contributions. It should pay the difference into Mr Gs pension. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr G hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash, 
25% of the loss would be tax free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
This matter has clearly been a source of worry and upset for Mr G. So, Fairstone should also 
pay him £150 compensation to recognise the impact of its actions on Mr G. 
Fairstone should provide Mr G with details of its loss calculation in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Fairstone Financial Management Limited should now take the steps 
Ive set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman