DRN-2576181
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has handled a physiotherapy claim 
he made under a group private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has private medical insurance as part of his employers group scheme.
Mr H underwent meniscectomy surgery, which was covered by his policy. Unfortunately, his 
recovery didnt progress as planned and he suffered post-surgical complications. Ultimately, 
this was found to be a mono-arthritis. As part of Mr Hs recovery regime, he was referred for 
physiotherapy. He initially underwent 13 sessions at one clinic before being referred to a 
specialist physiotherapist, which Ill call K. BUPA paid for the 13 sessions with Mr Hs first 
clinic and agreed to cover the cost of 12 sessions with K.
In August 2019, K recommended that Mr H should undergo 12 more physiotherapy 
sessions, so Mr H asked BUPA to authorise these costs. However, BUPA didnt agree. It 
reviewed evidence provided by both Mr Hs treating consultant and from K, but it concluded 
that the purpose of the additional sessions was to maintain Mr Hs condition, rather than cure 
it. Thats because it considered the medical evidence suggested that the treatment had been 
recommended to prevent deterioration of Mr Hs knee condition. But it said that if Mr Hs 
treating professionals could provide further evidence to explain why self-management of his 
condition wasnt possible and to put it into context of acute and curative care, it would review 
his claim again.
Mr H was unhappy with BUPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He felt 
the evidence from his treating clinicians clearly showed that hed needed further 
physiotherapy. He told us that as BUPA hadnt agreed to pay for the additional treatment, 
hed paid out himself for some sessions and tried to self-manage.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She considered all of the 
medical evidence provided both by Mr H and by BUPA. She felt itd been fair for BUPA to 
ask for more information from Mr Hs treating doctors. Thats because the evidence did 
suggest that the primary reason for the physiotherapy was to prevent further deterioration of 
his condition. She noted that BUPA had authorised further tests and follow-ups for Mr Hs 
condition since his physiotherapy claim had been turned down. So she felt it likely that if Mr 
H could provide further evidence in support of his position, BUPA would review it.
Mr H disagreed. He felt the investigator hadnt understood the complaint or investigated it 
thoroughly. He said that hed been left with a permanently impaired knee as a result of 
BUPAs handling of his claim. And he said that he was reluctant to seek further medical 
attention, as it wasnt clear that BUPA would agree to cover further treatment. He considered 
that the available medical evidence showed that further physiotherapy had been clinically 
necessary.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think BUPA has handled his claim 
fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his conditions; Ive carefully considered all of the evidence that both he and BUPA have 
sent us. I appreciate that Mr Hs knee condition has had a real impact on his life and Im 
sorry to hear that his condition has worsened. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the terms of Mr Hs policy and the available medical evidence in deciding whether 
BUPA handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Hs policy, as these form the basis of his contract with 
BUPA. Mr Hs policy covers eligible treatment and Ive set out BUPAs definition below:
Treatment of:
-an acute condition or
-a mental health condition.
BUPA has also defined what it means by an acute condition. The policy says:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease,
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
In this case, BUPA says that Mr Hs ongoing knee conditions remain eligible for treatment. 
However, based on the available medical evidence, its lead clinician didnt consider the 
additional physiotherapy sessions K had recommended to be covered by the policy terms. 
Thats because the lead clinician concluded that the physiotherapy wasnt intended to cure 
Mr Hs knee problems or lead to a full recovery. They felt the physiotherapy had been 
recommended to maintain his condition. 
Nevertheless, BUPA has confirmed it will consider further medical evidence which shows 
why the physiotherapy was to treat an acute condition and explain how it would lead to Mr 
Hs condition being cured. So I need to decide whether BUPAs conclusions here were 
reasonable.  Its important I explain that Im not a medical professional, so in making this 
decision, I need to weigh up all of the expert opinions of medical professionals.
Its clear that both Mr Hs treating consultant and K felt that Mr H needed to continue with 
physiotherapy as part of his ongoing treatment. Ive noted that the consultant said that Mr H 
had had early gains at K and that his symptoms were markedly improved. And K said: (Mr 
H) still has a clear clinical need for continued physiotherapy input. He has not returned to a 
level to be able to self manage nor has he returned to his previous state of health. Ive 
considered these points very carefully.
Ive noted though that in Ks letter of September 2019, the consultant has stated: 
Further I would have particular concerns with regard his knee deterioration if he does not 
receive regular clinical input. And Ive also noted that in the consultants letter of August 2019, theyve said: I think it is important that (Mr H) continue with the physical therapy to 
minimise further deterioration in knee function as he could quite easily slip back given the 
ongoing synovitis if the physical therapy is not maintained.
The consultants letter also made it clear that Mr H still had ongoing symptoms and that he 
was still undergoing tests. He said:
On examination, he still has warm diffuse swelling within the knee and crepitus and fluid in 
the knee. The MRI scan has shown that joint effusion has reduced but this has been almost 
entirely replaced with synovitis now, with a rice-body appearance, Medial and lateral 
meniscal injuries appear unchanged and there is minor medial femoral condyle cartilage 
fissuring. The retropatellar cartilage fissuring also appears
minimally increased.
I acknowledge that some of the statements within the medical evidence support Mr Hs 
position in relation to his need for further treatment. But based on the totality of the medical 
evidence which has been presented to BUPA, I dont think it was unfair for it to conclude that 
the primary reason for Mr H to continue with physiotherapy was to prevent his knee from 
deteriorating. Given the consultant specifically referred to preventing further deterioration, it 
seems his condition had already deteriorated by August 2019, despite the physiotherapy Mr 
H had already had. I dont think theres enough information in either letter to explain how 
authorising further physiotherapy treatment would treat an acute condition, or how it would 
cure Mr Hs knee condition to return him to his former state of health or lead to a full 
recovery. So I think it was reasonable for BUPA to ask for more medical evidence which 
explained this before it would agree to further review Mr Hs physiotherapy claim.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough 
evidence to show, on balance, that they have a valid claim on their policy. In this case, that 
means its for Mr H to provide more information from his treating doctors to show why his 
proposed physiotherapy treatment would meet the policy terms. 
I appreciate that some time has now passed and that Mr H has had to self-fund some 
treatments and has attempted self-management. I also appreciate that he may now have 
concerns about whether further necessary treatment costs will be met. I can see from 
BUPAs records that it authorised diagnostic tests and follow-up appointments for Mr H with 
his treating consultant, for his knee condition, after it considered his physiotherapy claim. 
BUPA hasnt suggested it wont look to cover further treatment for Mr Hs knee condition and 
so its open to him to make further treatment claims if he wishes to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman