DRN-1549225
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal 
and General) resolved a complaint he made about a life protection policy in 2014. 
What happened
Mr S took out a term assurance policy in 2007 for family protection. The sum assured of the 
policy was £90,000 and the term was twenty years. In 2014, Legal and General cancelled 
the policy due to non-payment of the premiums. When Mr S raised his initial complaint with 
Legal and General in 2014 it realised it had made a mistake in cancelling the policy. It 
explained why this had happened to Mr S and waived six months worth of premiums and 
reinstated the policy. It also covered the next premium that was due after the policy was 
back in place. 
Mr S accepted this offer in February 2015.
In 2019, Mr S approached Legal and General again saying that the issue had played on his 
mind and he felt the resolution he had accepted four years previous was insufficient. He 
was concerned about what might have happened if the policy had to have been claimed on 
during the period it had mistakenly been cancelled. Because of this he explained he wanted 
a refund of all the premiums paid for the policy to date.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt be upheld. He 
was satisfied with the way Legal and General had resolved the complaint in 2014/2015 and 
felt there was nothing further he should ask it to do.
Mr S didnt agree with the assessment. He remained unhappy with the previous offer. He 
also added further complaint points that he wanted considered. He was unhappy that in a 
recent letter to him Legal and General had referred to his late wife by a wrong surname. 
Legal and General had also stated in this letter that Mr Ss financial adviser who sold him the 
policy had spoken to him about the policy in 2011 but Mr S feels this conversation happened 
in 2014.
Legal and General agreed for these extra points to be added to this complaint and be 
considered as part of the final decision. It had nothing further to add in relation to the points.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand that in 2014 Mr S suffered a loss which was, in part, the reason why the 
problems happened with the policy at that time. I am sorry for his loss and appreciate he was 
going through a difficult time and has suffered further difficulties since.However, its important for Mr S to understand that I must be impartial and fair to both parties 
involved in my consideration of his complaint in this final decision despite the difficult 
situation he had found himself in.
It is also important to point out that Legal and General has accepted it didn'tt provide referral 
rights in 2015 when it addressed Mr Ss initial complaint. This is why his current complaint 
can be considered by this Service. While this isnt good practice, given Mr S has told us in 
the course of making this complaint that, after Legal and General resolved his initial 
complaint, he wasnt in a position to take the complaint further because of the loss of his 
wife, I am satisfied that even if referral rights had been given to him he wouldn'tt have done 
anything different.
Turning now to what happened in 2014 when the policy was mistakenly cancelled, having 
looked at what Legal and General did to resolve it I am satisfied it addressed the issue 
correctly and fairly. It accepted it had made a mistake, waived six months of premiums and 
reinstated the policy. This is, in my view, a fair and reasonable way to resolve the matter. I 
therefore dont think Legal and General has to do anything further. I know Mr S feels he 
should get refund of all the premiums paid to date but this would only be appropriate if the 
policy was mis-sold and we found that he should never have taken the policy in the first 
place. This isnt the case therefore Mr S isnt entitled to the refund of premiums.
Looking at the further complaint points Mr S had raised, while I know he says he is 
concerned about what might have happened had a claim been made during the period the 
policy was mistakenly cancelled, this service doesn'tt compensate for a hypothetical loss. 
Its very likely that had that situation arose Legal and General would have found the mistake 
then and would have paid the correct amount under the policy. But nevertheless, thankfully 
this didnt happen. In any event as this didnt happen and no loss has been suffered its not 
reasonable for Mr S to be compensated.
I know Mr S is unhappy about the errors he feels were contained in the most recent letter 
from Legal and General. I understand this would have been frustrating but I have no reason 
to doubt these were pure mistakes by Legal and General rather than anything it did 
purposely to offend Mr S. I therefore again dont think it needs to do anything further in 
respect of these issues as asking it to pay some money would in my view not be fair or 
reasonable given the situation.
Therefore, for the reasons explained above Im not going to ask Legal and General to do 
anything further because in this case in my view it hasnt done anything further wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that i don't uphold this complaint and i make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman