DRN-3675540
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) (SDFCL) 
treated him unfairly when he experienced financial problems.
What happened
Mr P entered into a credit agreement with SDFCL in 2013. He was out of work for a time and 
ran into financial problems in 2017. After getting some help from a debt advice organisation, 
he agreed a payment plan with SDFCL in October 2017 for token payments of £5 a month 
for six months. Mr P says he made the payments agreed consistently but noticed, in April 
2018, that SDFCL had stopped taking payments the month before. He phoned SDFCL and it 
accepted two further £5 payments in April and May 2018. SDFCL issued a default notice in 
May 2018 and the account defaulted a month later. 
SDFCL sold the debt to a third party and, whilst the debt was repaid, theres still a default 
showing on Mr Ps credit file which is affecting his ability to obtain credit. Mr P is unhappy 
that SDFCL wouldnt extend the payment arrangement beyond March 2018 and he thinks it 
was wrong to default the account and sell on the debt. 
SDFCL doesnt think it did anything wrong. It says (in summary) the payment arrangement 
agreed in early October 2017 was for token payments of £5 a month for six months. The first 
instalment was due by 27 October 2017 but this wasnt received and only three of the next 
five instalments were made. The arrangement ended in March 2018 and a call handler 
explained that a new plan wasnt appropriate when Mr P phoned in April 2018. The minimum 
payment (of around £2,000) then fell due. Mr P was told about that in statements and the 
default notice, but he failed to make the payment required on time so the account defaulted 
and SDFCL sold the debt. 
Mr P thinks SDFCL stopped taking payments even though it had (or should have) extended 
the payment arrangement. He says he made payments consistently. And SDFCL failed to 
acknowledge that he took pro-active steps to manage the borrowing whereas other creditors 
at the time were more supportive  and didnt issue defaults. He feels he has been treated 
unfairly and he wants SFFCL to arrange for the default to be removed from his credit file. 
Our investigator listened to various call recordings and considered correspondence between 
Mr P and SDFCL as well as other evidence. She didnt think SDFCL had acted unfairly and 
she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said:- 
Mr P was made aware that the payment plan put in place in October 2017 was for 6 
months only and it would end in March 2018 and he accepted this;
payments were made by card - not taken automatically by direct debit - so it was up 
to Mr P to make the payments on time;
the call handler Mr P spoke to in April 2018 didnt agree to extend the payment 
arrangement or start a new one;
subsequent statements set out how much was due and theres no indication that 
another payment arrangement was put in place;
Mr P continued to make some payments and it wasnt wrong of SDFCL to accept 
those - doing so didnt mean the payment arrangement was extended;
the default notice made it clear how much was due, when this had to be paid and 
what would happen if payment wasnt received;
Mr P didnt make the payment required in time and it wasnt wrong of SDFCL to 
default the account and sell on the debt.
Mr P said he thought the default letter sent in June 2018 shows an arrangement was agreed 
because it implies payment was expected and interest was frozen. The investigator didnt 
think that was the case. She said its clear from reading the whole letter that the required 
payment refers to the full amount due, of over £2,000. She wasnt persuaded that SDFCL 
had acted unfairly and she remained of the view it wouldnt be reasonable to ask it to do 
anything else. Mr P remained unhappy and asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman for review. 
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to let 
the parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my 
final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 2022. Ive set out what I decided 
provisionally (and why) below  this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I can see that Mr P has had a difficult time 
and Im sorry to hear about the impact of this default. I understand he feels he hasnt been 
treated fairly by SDFCL  especially after he took proactive steps to sort out his debts. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr P but, for the reasons Ill explain, Im not persuaded (on the current 
evidence) that SDFCL did something wrong here.
Mr P has explained that he spoke to a debt advice organisation and contacted several 
creditors including SDFCL when he experienced financial issues in 2017. Wed expect a 
lender to show forbearance in this situation. That may include suspending interest and 
charges, accepting token payments for a time and signposting free sources of debt advice, 
amongst other things.
Ive listened to the phone call Mr P had with SDFCL in October 2017 (amongst others). Im 
satisfied that SDFCL checked that Mr P had taken advice and agreed to accept token 
payments for six months. I think the call handler made it clear that this arrangement was 
temporary and how much had to be paid and when - and she also explained that interest 
would be frozen although BNPL would still be charged. Mr P confirmed he was comfortable 
with this arrangement. He said it was in keeping with arrangements hed made with other 
creditors. And he hoped to be in a better position by December and certainly within six 
months. 
I think it was positive and sympathetic of SDFCL to take the steps it did and agree this plan, 
based on the information I have. This sort of token payment arrangement is meant to be 
short-term however and subject to review - to ensure its affordable and appropriate for the 
borrower. For the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think SDFCL agreed to extend this 
arrangement or put a new one in place in March 2018. And Im not persuaded that was 
unfair or unreasonable in this situation. 
I can see Mr P says he made the token payments consistently - and he provided bank 
statements that show that three such payments were made. But, statements supplied by SDFCL suggest that Mr P didnt make all six payments  he missed at least two as far as I 
can see. Im also satisfied that Mr P told SDFCL his circumstances hadnt improved in April 
2018. So, he wouldnt have been in a position to resume his contractual payments when the 
arrangement ended the month before - or agree another payment arrangement that was 
likely to be sustainable overall. 
For the same reasons as the investigator, Im satisfied that SDFCL didnt agree (or lead Mr P 
to reasonably believe that) that the existing payment arrangement was extended past March 
2018 - or that a new one was put in place. And I dont think it was unfair of SDFCL to issue a 
default notice in May 2018 in the circumstances. Im satisfied the default notice made it clear 
how much had to be paid, and by when, in order to avoid a default. Its unfortunate that Mr P 
wasnt in a position to pay the amount specified so the account defaulted and SDFCL sold 
on the debt. But, I cant reasonably criticise SDFCL for that here. 
I understand the debt has been repaid now but Mr P is unhappy because theres a default on 
his credit file. Im sorry to hear about the problems this is causing. I realise a default can 
have a very significant impact on financial circumstances and the ability to access credit. 
Defaults stay on a credit file for six years. So, its important that a lender doesnt issue a 
default too soon - as the borrower may be able to clear arrears. And it may also be unfair for 
a default to be issued too late  prolonging the time the default appears on a credit record. 
Information from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about the recording of such 
information says a default may be registered when a customer is at least three months in 
arrears and a default would be expected to be registered by the time a customer is six 
months in arrears - as long as the lender has dealt with the borrower fairly. This service also 
generally expects a default to be registered within three to six months. 
Ive thought about the actions SDFCL took here. For the reasons Ive explained, I think it 
was fair of SDFCL to accept token payments for six months  given Mr Ps circumstances in 
October 2017 and his plans to get a new job and be in a better position financially within six 
months. And I cant fairly say SDFCL should have issued a notice of default any sooner. Im 
satisfied that Mr P didnt make all the token payments agreed and his circumstances hadnt 
improved by March 2018. So, Im not persuaded it was unfair of SDFCL to refuse a further 
arrangement. And I cant reasonably say it was wrong of SDFCL to issue a default notice in 
May 2018. 
I realise this will probably come as a disappointment to Mr P. I have sympathy for the 
situation he finds himself in. But, Im not presently persuaded that SDFCL treated him 
unfairly or acted unreasonably. I dont think it was wrong of SDFCL to default the account 
and sell the debt. Im not minded therefore to uphold this complaint and I cant reasonably 
require SDFCL to do anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have an further comments 
or new evidence by 16 August 2022. I explained I would look at all the evidence available 
after that date and make my final decision. 
Neither party has provided any new information or objected to my provisional findings. I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. For the reasons 
set out above, Im not persuaded that SDFCL treated Mr P unfairly or acted unreasonably. I 
dont think it was wrong of SDFCL to default the account and sell the debt. So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint and Im unable to reasonably require SDFCL to do anything else. 
I appreciate Mr B will probably feel let down by my decision, as its not the outcome he 
hoped for. Hes not obliged to accept what Ive said however - in which case, it remains open 
to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman