DRN-3429461
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and also his personal 
pension plan (PPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
At the time Portal gave its advice it was operating under a different name. But, as its now 
known as Portal I shall only use that name in this decision.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to their comments as being Mr Bs. 
What happened
Mr B contacted Portal in 2017 about accessing his pension funds after seeing an advert on 
social media.. 
In July 2017 Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs DB pension 
scheme, his circumstances and objectives. Portal recorded that:
Mr B was 54, married with two adult children
He expected to retire at 67.
He was employed full time and earned about £3,300 a month net. 
Mr Bs wife was also working and together they had a joint income of around £4,400 
a month.
They had a joint repayment mortgage on their home of £121,000 which was due to 
be paid off in 12 years time and cost them £925 a month.
They had a surplus income of between £1,500 and £1,850 a month.
They had no savings or investments.
He was a member of his current employers pension scheme.
They had loans totalling approximately £26,000 which they were repaying at a cost of 
around £545 a month. The loans were scheduled to be repaid within six years.
Mr B needed a retirement income of at least £20,000 a year.
Mr B wanted to access his tax-free cash (TFC) to help pay for his daughters wedding 
and to pay off and reduce some debts.
Portal obtained a pension transfer value analysis report and also carried out an assessment 
of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately cautious. 
Portal prepared a suitability report which advised Mr B to transfer his DB pension benefits 
into a SIPP. Regarding Mr Bs DB scheme, the report recorded that:
It had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £102,481.68
It would allow him to take a full pension, at age 65, of £4,440. The critical yield (the 
growth rate required to match his DB benefits) was 7.2%.
Alternatively Mr B could take a tax free sum of £21,601, at 65, together with a yearly 
pension of £3,240; the critical yield to meet those figures was 6.1%.
The growth rate required to match the benefits in the SIPP was 1.9%.
Portal said that the reason for its recommendation for Mr B to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits to a SIPP were because it would allow him to achieve his objectives which it said 
were:
To have greater flexibility to access his pension benefits.
To release the maximum TFC from age 55.
Have greater choice in terms of death benefits.
Have ownership and control of his pension investments.
To take an investment risk.
Enjoy the flexibility that pension drawdown offers.
Portal added that it believed the recommended SIPP would deliver greater ongoing benefits 
than Mr Bs DB scheme. Portal said its fee, if Mr B went ahead with the transfer, was 
£3,074.45. Mr B went ahead with the transfer which Portal completed in August 2017.
Portal also gathered information about Mr Bs PPP which had a transfer value of £56,725. It 
had an annual management charge of 0.55%. It had annualised average growth over the 
previous 5 years of 10.24%. 
In October 2017 Portal sent Mr B a second suitability report concerning transferring the PPP. 
It repeated much of the information from the July suitability report concerning Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives. Portal recommended that Mr B should transfer his funds from 
his PPP into his SIPP. It said that by doing so Mr B could access TFC of £14,068 and that 
the SIPP would deliver greater ongoing benefits than his current provider. It said the fee for 
its advice, if Mr B went ahead with the pension switch, was £1,688.26.
I understand that since then, Mr B is no longer invested in the original SIPP.
Mr B complained in January 2021 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice
because, amongst other things, he said:
From the outset Portal focussed on releasing TFC rather than looking objectively at 
whether a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Mr B had to pay fees of around £4,700.
Portal didnt act in line with the regulator's principles or guidance.
Its fee was conditional on the transfer going ahead so it was in its interest to 
recommend the transfer and its advice wasnt truly independent.
It created a conflict of interest.
Portals advice was based on a large sum of cash being available to Mr B, which led 
towards a decision to transfer without giving proper advice.
Its advice was unclear and unsuitable.
It didnt provide appropriate warnings about what Mr B would be giving up by 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
Portals timing wasnt appropriate as it told Mr B he was entitled to a sum of over 
£25,000 before it produced its suitability report. 
The recommended SIPP was unsuitable for Mr B, it lacked diversification and had no 
real prospect of matching the critical yield for Mr Bs DB scheme.
Portal didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said, amongst other things:It had explained its fees in its suitability reports and Mr B was under no obligation to 
transfer his pension funds. 
Its recommendations were not in pursuit of fees but were in Mr Bs best interests.
It would not make a recommendation if it was not in Mr Bs best interests and didnt 
believe it had created a conflict.
It acted in line with the regulators principles and guidance.
While Portal did advise Mr B about the availability of TFC it didnt build the whole 
case round this and it had made Mr B aware of the benefits and risks of transferring.
Portals advice was suitable as by transferring Mr B could achieve better growth as 
well as accessing cash to reduce debts and pay for his daughters wedding. 
Portal's pension transfer analysis showed that Mr B could achieve greater benefits in 
his SIPP than from his DB scheme. 
The critical yield was not the appropriate comparison to measure growth and the 
growth rate required (the hurdle rate) was achievable at 1.9%.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and 
required Portal to pay compensation, including a redress payment of £300 to address Mr Bs 
distress and inconvenience. Concerning the transfer from the DB scheme the investigator 
said that:
Portal sent Mr B documents that emphasised the need for him to act quickly to 
secure his TFC.
Portal hadnt collated all of Mr Bs income sources at retirement, for example it didnt 
mention Mr Bs state pension entitlement or his expected income from his current 
employers pensions scheme. It hadn't documented any consideration of how Mr B 
would achieve the £20,000 a year he needed in retirement. 
The critical yields Portal referred to in its suitability report would only match the 
benefits from Mr Bs DB scheme. So the returns from the SIPP would need to exceed 
those rates every year, year on year, to deliver any actual financial benefit from 
transferring. 
Given the high critical yields and growth rates required transferring wouldnt seem to 
offer value for money.
Mr B wasnt an experienced investor but the recommendation to transfer meant that 
Mr B was bearing all of the investment risk of his pension fund.
Mr B was repaying his debts and they were due to be cleared before he retired. So 
those weren't causing him financial difficulty.
Mr B has substantial disposable income each month and so he could have made 
overpayments of his debts to clear those sooner. 
Portal didnt record how much Mr B would need to contribute towards his daughters 
wedding and Portal didnt consider alternative ways of funding it. 
Portal had recorded that Mr B wanted flexibility but Portal hadn't recorded why Mr B 
wanted or needed this flexibility or why it would be in his best interests.
Portal didnt consider a life insurance policy as a way of providing further benefits in 
the event of his death.
Overall the investigator concluded that Portals advice for Mr B to transfer out of his DB 
scheme was unsuitable.
Our investigator also considered Portal's advice for Mr B to transfer his funds from his PPP 
to the SIPP. The investigator also concluded that advice was unsuitable because:
The total annual charges, for the SIPP were at least 1.7% a year. Compared to the 
0.55% charge for Mr Bs existing PPP. The past performance of Mr Bs PPP over the last five years had annualised growth 
of 10.24%. This compared to growth of the recommended funds of 10.81%. But the 
additional growth in the SIPP was negated by the increased fees. So the transfer 
didnt appear to offer good value. 
Mr Bs PPP offered a drawdown facility so there wasnt a need to transfer from it in 
order to access TFC.
Portal disagreed, amongst other things it said:
It had enough contemporary evidence to show that the transfer was in Mr Bs best 
interests. 
It had explained the guarantees from Mr Bs DB scheme to him.
Mr B wanted to leave his pension funds to his wife and daughters.
Mr B preferred the flexibility of a drawdown pension rather than an annuity style 
income.
By transferring from his DB scheme Mr B would be able to pay off a large portion of 
his debt, increase his monthly disposable income, and contribute to his daughters 
wedding, while enjoying a higher level of fund growth. 
By repaying his debts Mr B would be able to increase his security in retirement.
The SIPP had a significant chance of exceeding the required growth rate. 
Portal believed the hurdle rate of 1.9% was a more accurate comparison for growth 
than the critical yield.
The proposed SIPP had an annualised return rate of 7.28% over the past ten years 
and so the growth rates required could be matched. 
It had discussed alternative options with Mr B but he had no savings or assets and 
he wanted to reduce his debts not increase them so remortgaging wasnt an option.
Although the costs of the SIPP were higher than the PPP the better performance of 
the SIPP meant that Mr B would be better off by transferring his PPP into it.
The SIPP had lower risk for higher returns which was why it had advised Mr B to 
switch his PPP to the SIPP.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. Amongst other things she said:
She believed Mr B was likely to be worse off in retirement after transferring his DB 
pension benefits.
Portal hadn't explained why Mr B needed flexible access to his pension benefits 
instead of a guaranteed income. So she wasnt persuaded that the hurdle rate was of 
greater relevance than the critical yield.
Mr B didnt have enough capacity for loss to justify the risks of transferring from his 
DB scheme. 
Portals justification for transferring Mr Bs PPP to the SIPP was based on the SIPP 
significantly exceeding the regulators highest expected growth levels each year for 
12 years and so wasn't a suitable recommendation.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr B and Portal have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying to it. 
And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart 
of Mr Bs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
Portal made two separate recommendations for Mr B to transfer pension benefits to a SIPP 
so I shall deal with each one in turn.
Mr Bs DB pension scheme
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in Mr Bs best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Bs benefits at age 65 was 7.2% if he took a full 
pension and 6.1% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate was 
3.8% a year for ten years to Mr Bs DB scheme retirement age. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the 
lower projection rate 2% a year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 6.1%, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. 
Portal has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr B would have been able to meet 
his income needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, and I note that Portal 
has discounted the critical yield and instead looked at the hurdle rate. But I don't think 
thats a fair comparison as the hurdle rate typically doesnt allow for fund or adviser charges 
which aren't payable in the DB scheme, nor for increases in pension income over time, 
which is a guaranteed benefit from the DB scheme. The hurdle rate also doesn't consider 
the pension Mr Bs wife would have been entitled to in the event of his death or the fact that 
the DB schemes benefits were payable for the rest of Mr Bs life, no matter how long that 
was.
Portals also said that given the past performance of the SIPP it would expect the funds 
invested in it to comfortably match the growth rates required. But, as Portal said in its own documents, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. So I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in regard to the 
long-term likely growth, rather than projecting historic returns forward. In other words, the 
fact that the funds Portal recommended had performed well in the past didnt mean they 
would continue to do so in the future. Given the high critical yield, which was significantly 
more than the discount rate, I find it unlikely that Mr B would exceed those benefits if he 
transferred to the SIPP.
Also, Portals fact-find shows that Mr B would require an income in retirement of £20,000 a 
year. But Ive seen no evidence of an analysis of how Mr B would reach that figure. There's 
no reference within Portal's documents to Mr Bs likely income from his current occupational 
pension scheme and how this would contribute to his needs at retirement. So it seems that 
Portal gave its advice without a full picture of Mr Bs likely income needs in his retirement. 
What I can say for certain is Mr B had the prospect of a guaranteed return from his DB 
scheme which would increase each year. A return he stood to lose some or all of by moving 
it into a SIPP which had no guarantees of any return whatsoever. Also, in going ahead with 
that transfer the funds would instantly be subject to a £3,074 transfer fee. Portal would 
charge him a further 1% each year for financial advice and the SIPP administrators would 
charge fees of around 0.89% of his fund value. Those are charges that would potentially 
continue to reduce the size of Mr Bs investment but are charges that wouldnt have been 
deducted from his DB scheme benefits had he remained in that.
For the reasons set out above a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, 
as Portal has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Portals said that it used the hurdle rate rather than the critical yield as it was in line with 
Mr Bs preference for a drawdown type pension rather than an annuity. That is, the SIPP 
would give Mr B the flexibility to take the cash from his pension pot as and when he wanted 
to. That might be the case but Portals role was to find out what Mr Bs wants and needs 
were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr B wanted without appropriate analysis 
and challenge of his motives for doing so, together with the implications of taking those 
actions. But Portals provided no evidence of such a challenge.
Portals recorded that Mr B wanted access to TFC as he intended to contribute towards his 
daughters wedding and pay off/reduce some debts. But Portal hasn't established in its 
fact-find or suitability report why those things were so important to Mr B that he could chance 
giving up the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme for. Portal had carried out an 
assessment of Mr Bs spending and noted that, after deducting his regular outgoings, Mr B 
had a surplus of at least £1,500 a month. Mr B did have debts but those appear to have 
been well managed. And I can't see that Portal explored with Mr B why he felt he needed to 
give up the benefits of his DB scheme in order to release funds when he was meeting his 
financial obligations with some funds left over. It seems to me that in the first instance, Mr B 
ought to have been advised to overpay towards his debts or save any excess income to 
meet his objectives.
So while having flexible access to his pension might have been desirable to Mr B, I dont 
think he genuinely required flexibility to access the funds from his DB scheme. This is 
because I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. This is because based 
on the evidence Ive seen Mr B seemed to be managing his finances reasonably well with a disposable income left over each month. I've seen that Mr B said that paying off debts was 
important to him, and he also wanted funds to pay for his daughters wedding. But Portal 
didnt establish how much he needed for the wedding nor if there were other ways of raising 
that cash. Portal was aware that Mr B had funds invested in his PPP and it is evident that he 
could have accessed those from age 55. But theres no evidence that Portal discussed with 
Mr B if a better course of action for him could be to use those funds for his shorter-term 
goals and to leave the guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme untouched. 
Similarly Portal didnt explore other ways of addressing Mr Bs debts. Transferring out of the 
DB scheme and using the TFC was only one way to address this. I've seen no compelling 
evidence that Portal sought to explore with Mr B what the relevant benefits of the 
alternatives to transferring out of the DB scheme were. I've noted that Portal recorded that 
Mr B had told it that he didnt wish to take on further borrowing, but, apart from using the 
funds from his PPP another alternative could have been debt consolidation. That wouldnt 
require Mr B to take on extra borrowing or pay more interest, instead it was likely to reduce it 
overall. But I can't see that Portal brought this possibility to Mr Bs attention.
Its also worth noting that Mr B had no savings and had little in the way of investment 
experience. And, at most, he had a moderately cautious attitude to risk. So transferring his 
guaranteed benefits from a DB scheme to a SIPP which had the potential for losses, wasnt 
in his best interests.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr B about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Bs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But Mr Bs 
chosen path was to give up that guaranteed income in retirement for the chance of having 
flexible access to funds. But Portal didnt challenge Mr Bs requirements for that flexible 
access. It simply accepted what he said about wanting to pay off debts and use funds for his 
daughters wedding, rather than impressing on him the need for long-term planning. And 
without fully exploring and challenging Mr Bs objectives I don't think that Portal was in a 
position to make a recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. So I don't think Portal 
treated Mr B fairly.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr B about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his wife if Mr B died before her. I dont think Portal made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. Further, its worth noting 
that Mr Bs wife would have been entitled to the DB schemes death benefits for the rest of 
her life. Whereas the SIPP would simply return to her what was left after Mr B had taken his 
TFC and any other income from it. And that amount would likely be further reduced the 
longer Mr B lived for. So, depending on his lifespan and the funds hed taken from his SIPP, 
the fund might not have a large  if indeed any  sum left at the time of Mr Bs death. In any event, Portal should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher sums 
being available at his death through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Further, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife and daughters, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think Portal shouldve instead explored extra life insurance, but there's no evidence it did so.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
I think Mr Bs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr B was not an 
experienced investor and I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to 
manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for 
Mr B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a SIPP 
would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But Portal wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think Portals advice to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Portal shouldnt have advised Mr B to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable. And the potential to free up funds for his 
daughters wedding wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme, 
particularly when Mr B also had a PPP that he couldve taken TFC from at 55 instead.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr B to remain in his DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology as set out below. 
Mr Bs PPP 
The second suitability report which Portal gave to Mr B in October 2017 recommended that 
Mr B switch his pension from his PPP to the SIPP because:
He had chosen to take TFC of £14,068 at age 55.
The SIPP would deliver greater ongoing benefits.
Later in the suitability report, under a heading of our recommendation Portal said:
we recommend transferring your pension, so you can access tax-free cash to help you 
achieve your objectives.
Portal charged Mr B £1,688 for arranging the transfer. It also said it would continue to charge 
him 1% of the fund value for ongoing advice.I don't think Portals advice was suitable. Portal has clearly said that its first reason for Mr B 
to transfer was because he'd chosen to take TFC at age 55. But Mr B could have taken TFC 
from his existing PPP at age 55. He had no reason to transfer out of his existing PPP in 
order to access the TFC. But I can't see that Portal ever made this clear to Mr B. So, its 
possible that Mr B thought that hed need to transfer his PPP in order to have access to that 
cash when that wasnt the case. 
Similarly, Mr Bs PPP allowed him to access his cash flexibly by drawdown after his 55th 
birthday. So there was little in the way of benefit of transferring to the SIPP in order to do 
that, as that was a facility already available to him.
Portal also said the SIPP would deliver greater ongoing benefits than Mr Bs current plan. 
Portals documents show that, over the previous five years the SIPP had slightly 
outperformed Mr Bs PPP  returning annualised growth of 10.81% compared to the 10.24% 
annualised growth the PPP had produced. So on the face of it the SIPP had returned higher 
growth of 0.57%. But that doesn't mean that the advice to Mr B to swich his pension was 
suitable.
In 2009 the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority, (now FCA) published a report 
and checklist for pension switching that is still applicable. That checklist identified four main 
areas where consumers had lost out. One such area applicable to Mr Bs complaint is where 
the advice is to switch a pension to another product that is more expensive than the existing 
one. 
In this case, Portal didn't ever set out in its suitability report what the total costs to Mr B of 
the SIPP would be. It did explain that its initial fee for arranging the transfer would be 
£1,688. The suitability report also said that the SIPP had an admin fee of £75 a year if Mr B 
took funds from it. The fund administrators also charged an annual management fee of 
0.42%. The suitability report added that Fund charges also apply to this plan. The suitability 
report didnt set out what those were but said they were available in the literature given by 
the SIPP provider. As I understand it the actual level of those charges depends on the 
amount invested in the fund. So the charge could be subject to change as Mr B added 
money to it or deducted funds from the SIPP.
But, as well as those charges Portal was also charging Mr B 1% of the fund for ongoing 
advice. Portal said that advice would provide Mr B with peace of mind that his pension was 
working as hard as possible for him. So, when taking all those costs into account the total 
costs of charges for the SIPP were at least 1.7% of the fund value each year and could be 
as high as 2.11% after factoring in Portal's initial transaction fee of £1,688. That compares 
with a charge of 0.55% a year for Mr Bs existing PPP. In other words by transferring to the 
SIPP Mr B was paying at least 1.15% more in charges than for his PPP. That is considerably 
more than the 0.57% greater growth that the SIPP had offered over the previous five years. 
In other words, while the investment funds had shown greater growth previously, it also 
came with higher costs that would see Mr B worse off in the long run. So I dont think Portals 
advice for Mr B to transfer his PPP to a SIPP was suitable. 
In response to our investigators assessment of the complaint Portal provided us with some 
graphs and models which, it says, show that the SIPP would outperform the existing plan 
while offering lower risk. But Portal hasnt provided appropriate analysis alongside these 
models to show exactly what its comparing and why. For example its comparison of charges 
between Mr Bs PPP and the SIPP shows a charge given by the SIPP administrators of 
0.86% a year. It then indicates that after adding its initial transaction charge that would 
equate to an overall charge of 1.11%. It noted this was 0.56% higher than the PPP costs of 
0.55% a year. Its model then compares that with the growth figures from the previous five 
years. And as the SIPP growth had outperformed the PPP in that period by 0.57%, it anticipated Mr B having a higher return from his SIPP of 0.01% a year or 0.12% by the end 
of the 12 years to Mr Bs scheduled retirement. 
But, I dont think those figures paint a complete picture. Putting aside any arguments that 
past growth is not an accurate measure for future growth, Portals calculations don't include 
its 1% annual charge for its ongoing advice. And once that is factored in then the costs of the 
SIPP, when using the other figures in Portal's model are (2.11% - 0.55%) 1.56% a year 
higher for the SIPP than the PPP. So  accepting for a moment that the SIPP would 
outperform the PPP by 0.57% a year  the figures actually show that Mr B would be 0.99% a 
year worse off by transferring into the SIPP. But Portal didnt make that clear to him. And I 
dont think it gave Mr B enough information to make a fully informed decision about what 
was likely to happen to his funds if he transferred into the SIPP.
Further, Portal said that its models show that by transferring Mr B would enjoy lower 
volatility of assessment risk in return for higher returns. But even if I accept thats what the 
models show - and theyre anything but clear - they certainly dont explain how the larger 
additional costs of the SIPP will be outweighed by a smaller increase in growth. And overall 
it hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr B to be better off as a 
result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges he was incurring.
It follows that I dont think Portal treated Mr B fairly when it recommended he transfer his 
funds from his PPP to his SIPP. So I've set out below what Portal needs to do to try and 
return Mr B, as near as possible to the position he would otherwise have been in. 
Also I believe that the poor advice Portal gave to Mr B to transfer his pension funds has 
been a source of distress and inconvenience for him. To address that I think Portal should 
pay him a further £300 compensation.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would have most 
likely remained in his DB scheme, and his PPP, if suitable advice had been given.
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Portal must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation.
fair value  step one
If Mr B had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Portal must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr B lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
fair value  step two
Portal must compare the value of Mr Bs PPP transferred to his SIPP with that of the notional 
value from the PPP to determine the fair value of Mr Bs personal pension if suitable advice 
had been given. I consider that there was no reason for Mr B to have moved his personal 
pension. It was invested in a fund which met with his attitude to risk and was performing well 
 it also allowed for flexible drawdown. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
The value 
of the PPP 
benefits 
transferred 
to the SIPPSurrenderedNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate Mr B 
transferred 
his funds out 
of the SIPP8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out 
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Portal totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman