DRN-3128959
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of a claim she made on her 
car insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
The events below are a summary of the key points that I find relevant to this complaint.
In November 2020, Miss L was involved in a traffic accident. A claim was raised with 
UKI and she discussed her options for retaining the car.
UKI arranged for the car to be valued and deemed it a total loss.
Miss L didnt agree with UKIs valuation. And she wanted to retain the vehicle. She 
was also unhappy that her car had been stored outside and wanted access to the 
recovery yard so she could take photos to pass to her own repairer. She also wanted 
UKI to send the images of her car and its valuation to her own garage.
Later, Miss L raised further concerns with UKI. She said she was unhappy her hire 
car had been requested back, as she wasnt aware UKI had made the total loss 
payment. And she was unhappy with the delay in returning her car from the recovery 
yard to her garage. Miss L added her car had been returned in a worse condition, 
with extra damage to both the interior and exterior.
UKI responded to Miss Ls concerns over three final response letters  all of which 
form part of this decision. In summary it said:
oIt was satisfied the valuation was carried out fairly and accurately.
oIt told Miss L the car would be stored securely and hadnt confirmed whether 
this would be inside or outside.
oIt was unable to provide access to the recovery yard as their insurance only 
covers for authorised staff to be on site.
oIt couldnt consider issues with the hire car but understood this matter had 
been resolved directly with the provider.
oThat it had sent the total loss payment letter and apologised that Miss L 
hadnt received it.
oIt didnt accept that there was any additional external damage caused, but it 
offered to reimburse Miss Ls costs for replacing one of the tyres. And UKI 
offered a payment of £50 to valet the interior of the car.
UKI accepted there was a delay in it providing the valuation and photos to Miss Ls 
garage and offered £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
UKI offered a further £100 compensation to Miss L for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused in handling the claim, making a total of £225 compensation.
Miss L didnt agree with UKIs findings and referred the matter to our service. She said shed 
paid for a specialist to inspect her car before she bought it and felt it was worth more than 
UKI had offered.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that UKI had valued the car fairly and acted reasonably in addressing Miss Ls 
concerns. And our investigator concluded that UKIs offer of compensation fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss L during her claim.
Miss L disagreed, she felt that UKI had held onto her car for too long and maintained her 
position that her car was worth more than the total loss offer.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss L, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision below:
I understand Miss L has raised further concerns about the impact of UKIs actions, and UKI 
has agreed to address these concerns in a separate complaint. So, my role here is to 
consider if UKIs actions up to the point it issued the three final response letters were fair and 
reasonable. And Ill summarise my findings under the appropriate headings below:
Car valuation
Miss Ls policy is a market value policy. And this means that if her car is deemed a total loss, 
UKI is required to pay Miss L an amount which reflects the pre-accident market value of the 
car.
UKI referred to two trade guides in order to determine the fair market value. And due to the 
age of Miss Ls car it was unable to get a quote from a third guide. UKI has shown that the 
values in the two guides were different, but that it applied the higher figure to the claim 
settlement, rather than use an average. 
Miss L has provided adverts for cars similar to hers which are for sale and with higher value. 
And she says that given the cars age and rarity this is more reflective of the market value. 
But having considered this, along with her testimony of purchasing the car, Im not 
persuaded that this is a reliable way to determine the market value of the car.
I say this because the sale price advertised doesnt necessarily match what the car will 
actually be sold for. And I can see other factors such as the age and mileage which differ 
from Miss Ls car.Our service generally agrees that using the trade guides is the most reliable way to 
determine the fair market value of a like-for-like car. Having checked the trade guides at the 
time UKI did its valuation, I think the figure UKI used is fair, especially as it discounted the 
lower figure provided by the other trade guide. 
UKI has also confirmed it didnt deduct the salvage value as it shouldve done given Miss L 
retained the vehicle, and its not looking to recoup these costs now. So as a result, Miss L is 
slightly better off. 
So, having considered everything I find UKIs valuation reasonable in the circumstances.
Car storage and access to recovery yard
The recovery yards role as an agent of UKI was to store the car securely, which it did. And it 
wouldnt have known how long this was required for until it received instructions to return the 
vehicle. So, I cant hold it directly responsible for any damage caused by it being stored 
outside in rain or bad weather. Ive considered the overall condition the vehicle was returned 
in later in my decision.
I understand Miss Ls position in that she wanted to retain the vehicle and get an idea of 
likely repair costs as soon as possible by obtaining her own photos of the damage. But I 
think UKIs explanation of why it couldnt allow access to the recovery yard is reasonable. 
The recovery yard only allowed authorised members of staff on site and has said its 
insurance doesnt include public liability cover, so this wouldve introduced an unnecessary 
risk by allowing a member of the public onto the site.
So whilst I acknowledge this wouldve been frustrating for Miss L, I dont find UKIs actions 
unreasonable here.
UKI providing information
UKI accepted it emailed a copy of the valuation report when Miss L asked for it to be posted. 
And UKI also accepted it couldve provided photos of the damage to Miss Ls garage sooner 
than it did. Having reviewed the information UKIs provided to Miss L about the claim, I find 
its offer of £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience reasonable here.
 
But Miss L says that UKI caused further inconvenience and upset by not sending the total 
loss payment letter. So she was unaware it was planning to make the payment when it did.
Im satisfied that the evidence provided by UKI shows it sent the total loss letter to Miss Ls 
home address. Our service wouldnt require an insurer to make sure the letter is received 
once it is sent. And I dont think this is something UKI could reasonably control. So, I find 
that UKIs acknowledgement and apology for the upset caused to Miss L is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Condition of the car
The evidence shows that UKIs engineer considered the external damage and concluded 
there wasnt any further damage caused by UKIs agent following the accident. Ive 
considered the photos of the car provided and Miss Ls testimony, but on balance Im 
persuaded by the engineers position. Ive seen nothing firm to show that further external 
damage was caused to the vehicle in storage.UKI has accepted the car stood at the recovery yard for some time by offering the internal 
valet costs, and it has given the benefit of the doubt to Miss L about replacing one of the 
tyres. Considering the evidence available to me, I find UKIs position reasonable and 
proportionate in offering to put things right for Miss L.
Compensation
Ive considered Miss Ls overall claim journey to see if there were any instances of avoidable 
delay caused by UKI. Miss L has said that UKI delayed the return of her car to her chosen 
garage  leading to a significant delay in getting repairs done.
The evidence Ive seen shows that UKIs agent obtained the details of Miss Ls garage on          
29 December 2020 and attempted to deliver the car the following day. But it says nobody 
was on site to accept delivery of the vehicle. I accept Miss L disputes this point, but Ive not 
seen anything to suggest events happened differently here. 
The contact notes show that UKIs agent delivered the car to the garage on 5 January 2021. 
And UKI accepts there may have been a delay caused by its agent not contacting it directly 
for Miss Ls garages phone number.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that UKIs offer of £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by these errors is fair and reasonable. And Ive not seen anything in 
the evidence which would merit a further award for distress and inconvenience here.
In conclusion, I do appreciate that having the car returned to Miss L in the condition it was 
wouldve caused her some upset. But having considered UKIs response, and what it has 
offered to put things right, I cant fairly require it to do anything further here.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman