DRN-3790685
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) wont reverse the money he had taken 
out from his Cash ISA in error.
What happened
Mr M holds a non-flexible Cash ISA with Cynergy. On 14 June 2022, he applied for an Easy 
Access savings account online. He then transferred the balance of his ISA into the new 
account.
Mr M realised his error and contacted Cynergy within a few hours. He explained he thought 
he had opened a new ISA account but later understood it to be a savings account. He asked 
Cynergy to return the money hed removed from the ISA, however he was told the transfer 
into the ISA couldnt be reinstated.
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained. He said he had never intended for the funds to be 
outside of an ISA wrapper. Cynergy considered Mr Ms complaint but it didnt uphold it 
quoting its terms and conditions for non-flexible ISAs. So, Mr M referred the matter to us.
An investigator at this looked into Mr Ms complaint. He found Cynergys terms made it clear 
that any money withdrawn from the ISA account Mr M held couldnt be replaced nor could 
the tax status be reinstated. He also explained the ISA rules didnt allow for customer error. 
As a result, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree. He accepts he knew the ISA wasnt flexible. He emphasised the money 
had been transferred to an incorrect account; he thought he was transferring the money to 
Cynergys Easy Access ISA account and not their Easy Access saver. He countered that if 
Cynergy had mistakenly transferred his money, the error would have been rectified without 
penalty. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. I appreciate my 
decision will be disappointing to Mr M, so Ill explain why below.
Mr M agrees that Cynergys terms and conditions make it clear that money withdrawn or 
transferred from an inflexible ISA will lose its tax advantage and cant be replaced, so I wont 
comment further on this. His point, however, is that he had always intended to transfer the 
money to another ISA. I sympathise with Mr M  I can understand that to his mind, whats 
happened would appear to be easily resolved so I understand why this might feel unfair and 
frustrating to him.
As the money was wrongly transferred out of the ISA, Cynergy isnt permitted to reinstate the 
account without permission from HMRC. There are very limited circumstances when HMRC 
would allow this. Customer error isnt one of those. Unfortunately for Mr M, that means 
Cynergy cant make an exception here, as the rules around inflexible ISAs dont allow for 
this.
I understand Mr Ms disappointment at the situation he finds himself in and I accept that he 
made a genuine mistake on this occasion, but I am unable to conclude I can require Cynergy 
do anything different.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman