DRN-1497211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly told them that it wouldnt take 
school fees into account when deciding how much they could borrow on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with HSBC. They asked HSBC for a further advance to carry 
out home improvements. They were told that school fees wouldnt be used in any 
affordability calculation. Mr and Mrs G say based on this information they took their house off 
the market and decided to improve their home instead using the further advance. But when 
they made an application, they found out they couldnt borrow as much as they wanted  
because school fees were taken into account.
Mr and Mrs G say that they put their house back on the market and sold it  but they had to 
pay an early repayment charge (ERC). HSBC offered Mr and Mrs G £250 for giving them 
incorrect information. But they dont think this goes far enough.
Our investigator thought that HSBCs offer was fair. Mr and Mrs G didnt accept that  they 
said they lost out when they removed their house from the market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that HSBC incorrectly led Mr and Mrs G to believe that it wouldnt take into 
account school fees in its affordability assessment. It is reasonable for HSBC to take school 
fees into account. So all that is left for me to decide if what is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint. 
Where a business has given incorrect information, I usually look to put the consumer who 
received the incorrect information back in the position they would have been in had they 
received the correct information in the first place. Based on the information I have, it seems 
likely that Mr and Mrs G would not have removed their property from the market and would 
not have pursued an application for the further advance. So I need to consider whether 
those things have caused them a financial loss and/or any trouble and upset that would 
warrant a compensation payment.
Mr and Mrs G say they lost out on £5,000 when they took their property off the market. But 
they have not provided any evidence of that. So I cant say that was a loss that it would be 
reasonable for HSBC to pay. I accept that they will have been caused trouble and upset by 
changing their plans based on the incorrect information from HSBC, the loss of expectation 
and taking the property off the market and putting it back on again. But after reviewing 
everything that happened I consider the offer of £250 is fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G had to pay an ERC. But they would always have had to pay the ERC when 
they sold their home.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs G £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman