DRN-2775531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited are unfairly restricting their home 
insurance cover, as a condition of a cash settlement for a subsidence claim. They are also 
unhappy about claim delays.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs W made a subsidence claim for damage to their detached garage. 
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim. 
In March and November 2019, Mr and Mrs W complained about delays and poor service. In 
November 2019, a cash settlement was agreed for the repairs to the garage and its site, for 
£11,560. Mr and Mrs W were told the buildings and contents cover for the garage would be 
removed until repairs had been completed. 
Mr and Mrs W complained it had taken a year for the settlement to be offered following the 
loss adjusters inspection, and they noted Fairmead had renewed their policy whilst being 
aware of the subsidence without any additional terms imposed. They explained they had 
accepted the cash settlement on the understanding that only subsidence cover would be 
excluded, and only for the garage building, until the repairs are completed; but they later 
reluctantly accepted all buildings cover would be removed for the garage until works are 
done. They said only later were they told all garage cover would be removed, and they 
questioned why contents cover was being removed when the garage is secure. They 
explained they would accept the settlement providing only loss or damage caused by 
subsidence is excluded, for the garage only.
In January 2020, Fairmead responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It issued them £300 to 
apologise for the claim delays, and it noted the cash settlement needed to be increased to 
allow for six weeks of storage costs, when repairs are being undertaken. However, it said 
that because repairs arent being completed on receipt of the settlement, theres a further 
risk, so buildings and contents cover for the garage will be removed at the point of 
settlement.
Mr and Mrs W explained to Fairmead that they accepted its response regarding the service 
issues, and as previously advised, they fully accepted its decision to remove buildings cover 
from the garage until repairs had been completed. However, they remained of the opinion 
that it was unreasonable to remove all cover for contents within the garage, rather than 
simply excluding loss or damage as a result of subsidence.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. They clarified that they accepted the 
buildings cover for their garage would be removed once their claim has been settled, until 
repairs are completed. However, they thought contents cover should remain with only an 
exclusion for subsidence. They also thought interest should be added to the settlement, 
given it hadnt yet been paid; and they wanted confirmation Fairmead wouldnt refuse 
renewal terms due to the claim.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded Fairmead should 
continue to provide buildings and contents cover for the garage after the claim settlement 
had been paid, until renewal. She thought it was unfair for Fairmead to remove cover mid-
term. However, she thought any dispute at renewal about the cover being offered, would 
need to be considered separately, as a new complaint. Although she didnt think interest 
should be added to the claim settlement, she thought the £300 compensation should be 
increased to £450. 
Fairmead maintained it should exclude buildings cover for the garage until the works have 
been completed. It said it was entitled to do this mid-term as the circumstances of the risk 
have changed.
However, Fairmead changed its position on the contents cover. It noted its loss adjusters 
had agreed to install a screen around the garage to keep it secure. So, it said until works 
started, there wouldnt be an increased risk to the contents; and during the works, the 
contents would be moved in to storage.
Mr and Mrs W reiterated that they thought both buildings and contents cover should remain 
for the garage after the cash settlement had been paid, but with subsidence related loss or 
damage excluded. They also reiterated interest should be applied to the cash settlement, 
given they had been deprived of the funds. They also thought the settlement should be 
reassessed due to the time thats passed and possible changes to repair costs.
Mr and Mrs W have also since told us their garage has now developed leaks in the roof, and 
they think this has been caused by the subsidence. They say this issue could have been 
avoided had the claim been settled without delay.
Neither party accepted our investigators outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intended to uphold the complaint in part. In 
my provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
buildings cover
The purpose of the cash settlement is so Mr and Mrs W can repair the subsidence damage. 
So, once paid, the onus switches to them to complete repairs. As I understand it, they had 
no immediate plans to complete the repairs; and Fairmead considered the garage, in its 
unrepaired state, to present a risk it was unwilling to cover.
In my view, it follows that a building and site with unresolved subsidence issues present an 
increased risk to an insurer, as evidenced by the now leaking roof. I also dont accept that 
the increased risk is limited to further subsidence. For instance, a building with structural 
issues will likely be more susceptible to other insured events too, such as storm or 
accidental damage.
Fairmead has offered to complete repairs instead of a cash settlement. So, it isnt imposing a 
cash settlement on Mr and Mrs W and leaving them to organise the repairs themselves. Its 
also maintained cover whilst the settlement remains outstanding, which is fair in my view, 
given it remains responsible for the outstanding repairs until the settlement is paid.In conclusion, I consider Fairmead is treating Mr and Mrs W fairly in respect of the buildings 
cover. Once Fairmead has cash settled the repairs, its fulfilled its responsibility under the 
policy, for that claim. I cant reasonably decide it needs to continue to cover the garage 
whilst repairs remain outstanding and it considers there to be an increased risk.
contents cover
Fairmead has offered to continue to cover the contents in the garage (subject to the existing 
limits and terms), providing a screen is installed. I consider its proposed solution to be fair. 
If Mr and Mrs W dont agree to the installation of a screen, or Fairmead isnt satisfied that the 
screen provides sufficient protection, I cant reasonably decide it needs to continue to cover 
contents in the garage whilst repairs remain outstanding. I say this for the same reasons 
I gave above, in respect of the buildings cover.
delayed settlement
Fairmead paid £300 compensation for the initial claim delay before the cash settlement was 
agreed. Ive not been told anything that leads me to believe this doesnt fairly acknowledge 
the impact the initial delay had on Mr and Mrs W; and I understand they considered that 
matter settled.
However, Fairmead has changed its position on providing contents cover, and had it offered 
to cover the contents in November 2019, I consider it likely that Mr and Mrs W would have 
accepted the cash settlement. This is because, at that time, they accepted buildings cover 
wouldnt be provided until the repairs are completed. So, Im persuaded its reasonable to 
conclude that Fairmeads original position on the contents cover, has contributed to the 
settlement delay.
That said, overall, Im not persuaded Fairmead ought to pay interest on the cash settlement. 
Whilst I accept Mr and Mrs W could have invested or used those funds, the purpose of the 
settlement is to repair the garage and its site, and its my understanding it wasnt their 
immediate intention to do that. Im also not aware of them using alternative funds to 
undertake repairs to the garage, whilst this dispute has been ongoing.
On the other hand, I accept Mr and Mrs Ws point that repair costs may now have increased 
given the time thats passed. They have also raised concern that further damage has since 
occurred to the garage. As noted above, Im persuaded Fairmead has contributed to the 
settlement delay, so it follows its responsible for any ongoing damage until the claim is 
settled. 
Therefore, I intend to decide Fairmead should complete an updated scope to account for any 
further subsidence related repairs now necessary, and any increased costs, in order to 
update the cash settlement offer.
future cover
I cant reasonably pre-empt any decisions Fairmead might make in the future about offering 
Mr and Mrs W cover. However, should Fairmead not offer them cover in the future for their 
property, of for their repaired or newly-built garage, they can raise a new complaint at that 
time if they dont accept the reasons given.
Fairmead confirmed it didnt have anything further to add. However, Mr and Mrs W made the 
following points:- They accept buildings cover will be excluded in respect of the garage, once the claim 
has been cash settled. However, they asked me to comment on their premium given 
the reduction in cover.
- They hadnt previously been advised a screen would be required in order for contents 
cover to be provided for the garage, following the cash settlement. A screen was only 
discussed as an option during repairs, as it was proposed that part of a wall would 
need to be removed. Until such time the garage remains secure, so they question 
why Fairmead considers a screen to be necessary whilst no work is in progress.
- They say they could, if there was room, place the garage contents in their shed which 
is less secure than the garage and the items would be covered. Likewise, they say 
they could store their bicycles on their driveway, and providing they are locked in 
accordance with the policy terms, cover would be provided. So, they question the 
logic of not covering the items if kept in their secure garage.
- They considered Fairmeads proposed repairs to be substandard and unacceptable, 
so its their intention to complete repairs themselves once they can pay for the 
additional works they consider necessary.
- They agree to an updated scope to account for any further subsidence related 
repairs now necessary, and any increased costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will focus on the further points made by Mr and Mrs W.
I acknowledge the point Mr and Mrs W make about their premium, once part of their cover 
has been removed. However, Im unable to comment on that here. To do so would be pre-
empting any adjustments Fairmead may or may not make, and its reasoning behind such 
decision. However, once Mr and Mrs Ws cover has been reduced, if they dont consider 
Fairmead is treating them fairly in respect of their premium, they can make a separate 
complaint about that matter. If that complaint reaches our service, well consider the 
arguments made.
I accept the points Mr and Mrs W make about the screen, and the contents being covered in 
less secure locations. However, the potential risk isnt limited to theft. I remain satisfied that 
its reasonable for an insurer to not cover items stored in a building with structural issues, if 
theres no immediate plan to repair. It follows that items stored in such a building are at an 
increased risk of being damaged. Once the claim is cash settled, Fairmead has no control 
over when the repairs will be completed, or the ongoing deterioration of the building.
I dont know if a screen will eliminate the increased risks. But, importantly, Im persuaded its 
reasonable for Fairmead to remove contents cover for the garage if it isnt satisfied the items 
are adequately protected. Fairmead will need to discuss the screen with Mr and Mrs W. If 
installing a screen isnt feasible, or if Fairmead isnt satisfied one will provide adequate 
protection, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for it to remove contents cover for the 
garage. In my view, that is Fairmeads decision to make.I acknowledge the point Mr and Mrs W have made about their unhappiness with Fairmeads 
proposed repairs, and that being the reason they opted for a cash settlement. However, this 
complaint isnt about that matter, and nor have I seen information about the repairs being 
proposed by either party. As such, Im unable to comment.
For this service to decide whether Fairmeads proposed repair method is fair, Mr and Mrs W 
would need to complain to Fairmead about that matter before accepting the cash settlement. 
If that complaint was to reach our service, we would then consider the submissions of both 
parties, including any expert opinion provided, to decide what, on balance, we are more 
persuaded by, in respect of the work needed to achieve an effective and lasting repair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Fairmead Insurance Limited should:
- continue to cover contents in the garage, provided its satisfied the items are 
adequately protected; and
- update the scope of works, and cash settlement, to account for any further 
subsidence related damage or change in repair costs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman