DRN-3889858
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut), wont reimburse her for the money she lost when 
she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
On 14 December 2021, Miss T fell victim to an impersonation scam. She received a call from 
someone pretending to be from another bank that she holds an account with. They advised 
her that her account was at risk and that she needed to move her money into her Revolut 
account and then from there on to a safe account.
Miss T transferred £2,500 into her Revolut account and then made two payments in 
succession, one of £1872.44 and one of £740.11 to the beneficiary details provided to her.
The following day Miss T attempted to make further payments from her other bank account 
which were subsequently flagged by her bank for questioning and after a discussion about 
the payments the scam was uncovered.
Miss T reported the matter to Revolut to see if it could help recover her funds. Unfortunately 
no funds remained that could be recovered. Revolut also considered that as Miss T had 
authorised the transfers, it wasnt responsible for the loss. 
Unhappy, Miss T referred the matter to our service. Our Investigator looked into the 
complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They didnt think Revolut ought to 
have done more to identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances or 
have a cause for concern that Miss T was at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a 
scam. They also considered that had Revolut contacted the receiving bank as soon as it was 
made aware of the scam it wouldnt have been able to recover any funds. And that was 
because the funds had already been moved on prior to Miss T reporting the matter to 
Revolut. 
Miss T disagreed with the Investigators opinion. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Miss T authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Miss T is responsible for them. That remains the case 
even though Miss T was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Revolut have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss T when she made the transfers or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the transfers or the amounts that ought to have alerted Revolut to the 
possibility Miss T was being scammed. Banks and Payment Service Providers process a 
high volume of transfers and transactions each day. And a Firm has to strike a balance as to 
when it should possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its 
customers requests. 
In this case, and given the account history, the payments werent so out of character that 
there could reasonably be grounds for Revolut to be suspicious Miss T may be a victim of 
fraud to an extent that it should have intervened further and questioned Miss T about the 
payments. So, I think the fact that Revolut didnt flag the transfers for further intervention or 
questioning was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also considered whether Revolut did all it could to try and recover the money Miss T 
lost. The evidence Ive seen persuades me Revolut could have acted sooner than it did. But 
unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as quickly as 
possible. 
Here, the receiving bank (the bank used by the scammer) has provided information to show 
when Miss Ts transfers were credited into the account  and importantly when they were 
withdrawn / moved on. The two transfers Miss T made were credited instantly and were also 
moved on within ten minutes. So while I consider Revolut could have logged the fraud claim 
and notified the receiving bank sooner than it did, ultimately it wouldnt have made a 
difference here as the funds had already been moved on. 
Overall, while I appreciate Miss Ts been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Revoluts decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because it followed Miss Ts instructions to make the payments and 
I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, by the time 
Miss T reported the matter, the funds had already been moved on by the fraudster meaning 
no funds could be recovered.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman