DRN-4054401
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Accelerant Insurance UK Limited (Accelerant) declined her claim 
for roof damage under her propertys insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Accelerant includes its representatives and agents in 
this final decision.
What happened
Ms C had solar panels installed onto the flat roof of her property in August 2011. She said 
that these blew off in a storm shortly after installation. In 2019, the roof started leaking and 
Ms C found that the roof had suffered damage and water was entering a bedroom of the 
property. Ms C thought that the damage had happened when the solar panels had been 
blown off and then tore the roof felting, so allowing water to get in over time. 
Ms Cs property was covered by an insurance policy associated with the solar panels and 
Ms C made her claim to Accelerant in May 2019. Accelerant declined her claim and said that 
the policy only covered damage to the solar panels themselves and not to the roof. Ms C 
complained to Accelerant as she thought the policy should also cover issues with 
installation, but Accelerant maintained its stance.
Ms C therefore referred her complaint to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. He considered there was insufficient evidence to indicate that the damage 
had been caused by poor installation. Due to the time that had passed without any issues, 
he considered that gradual wear and tear was more than likely to have been the cause of 
damage to the roof.
Ms C remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. The matter has now been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine here is whether Accelerant applied the terms and 
conditions of Ms Cs policy in a fair and reasonable manner in declining the claim. Ive 
concluded that it did, and Ill explain why. In determining the matter, Ive also considered the 
submissions of the parties as summarised below.
Ms C provided a clear and helpful timeline in this matter. She explained that shed arranged 
for a company to supply and instal solar panels at her property in May 2011. She said that 
the solar panels were installed at the wrong angle on a flat roof. As a result of this, she said 
the panels were ripped off the roof by the wind, very shortly after installation. Ms C said that 
the company refitted the panels, presumably at the correct angle of installation. Ms C said 
that; the effect of the panels and their fixings blowing off the roof was that damage was 
caused to the felt covering on the flat roof. Ms C said that this was clear from a report from a 
renovation company which shed obtained in September 2022. 
Ms C considered that if the panels had been correctly fitted, they wouldnt have blown off 
and there would have been no damage to the felt. As to the scope of the Insured Works, 
she considered that this definition included consequential damage to the property caused by 
any defective installation. She said there is an express term of the contract that the entire 
contract was for the supply and installation of solar panels and because there must, of 
course, be an implied term that the installation work will be carried out to a workmanlike 
standard. She said that panels were clearly not fitted to a workmanlike standard. She 
concluded that; Damage was caused to the property by the removal of those panels and 
that damage is covered under the terms of the relevant insurance policy. She wished the 
insurers to pay £7,200, being the maximum amount payable under the policy even though 
the cost of the remedial work to the roof was substantially higher than this.
Ms C was pleased that the services investigator had accepted her contention that the claim 
was within the scope of the policy. She was unhappy however that he hadnt upheld her 
complaint for a different reason, being that damage was caused by wear and tear. Ms C 
agreed that if it applied, this would be excluded under the policy. Ms C said that the report 
shed obtained was the only expert evidence as to the cause of damage to the felt. She said 
that the storm was only material in that weather conditions caused the panels to be blown 
from the roof, thereby tearing the felt. Ms C noted that it had taken some years for water to 
ingress into the property as the unprotected wood surface deteriorated. Ms C said that the 
appropriate causation test was to determine the most probable cause of the damage. She 
said that this was poor installation and that there was no evidence of wear and tear. 
As to relevant written evidence, in 2019, a builder engaged by Ms C had stated; - I have 
found that roofing felt, which sits on the plywood on your dormer was cut by the aluminium 
rails holding the solar panels. That cut roof felt allows water into the plywood of the roof and 
is making it rot...
In September 2022, Ms Cs renovation company report stated as follows: As discussed, we 
investigated the source of the various areas where you experienced water ingress
into your loft bedroom at the beginning of last year (2021) prior to carrying out the repair 
works. It was pretty clear straight away that there were places where the roof felt has been 
torn slightly by the metal rails/supports for the solar panels. It is possible that this was due to 
careless installation originally, but you mentioned that the solar panels had blown off the roof 
in a storm soon after they were initially installed, and it is highly likely that this caused at 
least some, if not all, of the tears.
I now turn to what Accelerant has said about this matter. It noted Ms Cs disappointment but 
maintained its stance that only defects to the solar panels themselves were covered by the 
policy. Accelerant said that Ms C had submitted her claim in May 2019 but had said that 
shed received no response in this regard. It said that it had responded at the relevant time 
and sent a copy of the response to Ms C in July 2022. Ms C had then progressed her 
complaint in November 2022. Accelerant considered it highly likely that the some if not all 
the of damage was caused by a storm which occurred after the panels were initially installed 
in August 2011. It considered that the insurance policy was clear that the insurer agreed to 
indemnify the policyholder in respect of making good any defective workmanship to the solar 
panels themselves, being the insured works. It also noted that the work was only guaranteed 
for 10 years, and that the period had elapsed. It sympathised with Ms Cs situation but didnt 
think it could be liable for repairs/remedial works other than for the solar panels.
The starting point in complaints of this nature is the wording of the relevant policy. In this 
case, the insurance policy is a short document which doesnt include all the necessary detail. For instance, the term Insured Works is defined as the works described on the schedule 
carried out by the installer for the policy holder at their domestic dwelling, however there is 
no attached schedule. Under the heading Benefits, the policyholder is covered for the cost 
of making good defective workmanship in the Insured Works at the Location described 
above, where the Installer has Ceased Trading as defined below and is unable to honour the 
terms of their own Written Guarantee issued to the Policy Holder. As to Exceptions the 
policy makes it clear that Accelerant shall not be liable for; any damage or defect caused by 
fair wear and tear, sunlight, storm or deterioration due to neglect in maintenance.
Firstly, as to the Insured Works, in the absence of a written schedule, I agree with Ms C, 
that it is reasonable to have regard to the works quote and contract to inform the scope of 
the works. This states as follows: The Purchaser agrees to buy, and the company agrees to 
install thesystem. I conclude that not only are the panels covered by the insurance policy, 
but the works to instal the panels is also covered.
Turning to the Benefits provided by the policy therefore, I also conclude that Ms C was 
insured in principle for any defective workmanship during the installation work. I accept Ms 
Cs evidence that the panels had been ripped off her flat roof by wind within a very short time 
after installation and that the relevant company returned to reinstall the panels. On the 
balance of probabilities, this therefore indicated inadequate installation. The policy covered 
the policyholder where the installer was unable to honour its guarantee to remedy defective 
workmanship in the Insured Works. Whilst the insurance policy is limited in nature, I 
consider that the installer remedied its defective workmanship in installation of the panels, to 
the extent that there is no available evidence of movement or lifting of the panels following 
re-installation.
The next question to ask is whether any consequential damage to the roof was similarly 
covered by this policy. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that cover 
for defective installation would, in principle, include defective installation if it caused damage 
to a roof, such as the ripping of the roof felt. 
However, the central question is then whether the initial inadequate installation caused the 
damage which emerged nearly eight years later. Unfortunately, the available evidence is 
inconsistent and inconclusive on this point. Ms Cs complaint in 2019 stated; Over time the 
metal bars have cut into the felt allowing water into the wooden part of the roof. This has 
made the wood soften and water is now coming through as a leak in the loft bedroom. Also 
in 2019, the builder had stated; - I have found that roofing felt, which sits on the plywood on 
your dormer was cut by the aluminium rails holding the solar panels. That cut roof felt allows 
water into the plywood of the roof and is making it rot... The report commissioned by Ms C 
was consistent with the above to the extent that it confirmed that the roof felt had been torn 
slightly by the metal rails/supports for the solar panels. The author would only say that it was 
possible that this was due to careless installation originally. His report was therefore 
inconclusive on this central point. As a considerable amount of time has passed since 
installation (12 years), it is appreciated that pinpointing the probable cause of damage, and 
discounting any intervening events, is difficult in the absence of contemporaneous evidence 
of the state of the felt following installation. 
The report goes on to state; but you mentioned that the solar panels had blown off the roof 
in a storm soon after they were initially installed, and it is highly likely that this caused at 
least some, if not all, of the tears. The author is clearly referring to the storm event when he 
refers to this caused. It may be that he was suggesting the possible careless installation 
was the predominant cause as opposed to the storm event causing some of the damage, 
however this is not how the report is expressed. However, this view in relation to some of the 
damage is inconsistent with the view that damage was caused by aluminium rails cutting the 
felt over time. In all the circumstances, I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Accelerant to conclude that any defective workmanship which occurred was not the 
predominant cause of the felt damage. 
I conclude that it is more likely than not that the damage occurred gradually over time due to 
the presence of aluminium rails in a position exposed to the weather and gradually cutting 
through the felt. I therefore agree with the investigator that the damage is likely to have 
occurred through gradual wear and tear. Ms C has accepted that if wear and tear is the 
cause, then it is excluded by the policy.
This has been a finely balanced decision and I appreciate that it will come as a great 
disappointment to Ms C, particularly as she has clearly taken a great deal of time and effort 
to clarify her complaint. She has clearly and eloquently presented her submissions. 
However, unfortunately for Ms C, having considered all available evidence very carefully, on 
the balance of probabilities, I cant say that Accelerant applied the terms and conditions of 
the policy in an unfair or unreasonable manner.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint and I dont require Accelerant 
Insurance UK Limited to do any more in response to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman