DRN-3795206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W, as trustees of the W Trust, complain about the advice they received to take 
out two whole of life policies. Phoenix Life Limited is responsible for the advice.
What happened
In 1993, Mr and Mrs W sought advice to mitigate their potential Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
liability. The adviser, who Phoenix is responsible for, suggested investing a lump sum into an 
investment bond to produce annual withdrawals which could pay the premiums for a whole-
of-life policy.
As a result of the advice, Mr and Mrs W took out the following:
- Single premium investment of £150,000.84 into an Investment Plan with 5% annual 
withdrawals of around £7,400.
- Covermaster whole of life policy set up on joint lives, second death basis with a sum 
assured of £452,927 and an annual premium of around £7,400
- Covermaster whole of life policy  index linked  on Mr Ws life with a sum assured of 
£100,000 and an annual premium of around £2,900
The purpose of the investment plan was to pay for the joint life policy. The additional plan 
was taken for Mr W to increase the life assurance.
As a result of the first review in 2003, Mr and Mrs Ws sum assured on their policy 
decreased. Across both policies, this has happened over time and currently their whole of 
life policies are worth £298,201 and £70,348 respectively.
Mr and Mrs W, with the help of representatives, complained that this advice wasnt suitable. 
Mr and Mrs W believe they ought to have been advised to take out a single premium whole 
of life policy. Their representative strongly believed the premium should be £250,000 and 
asked Phoenix to conduct an actuarial calculation to put this in place.
Phoenix said it didnt offer single premium policies at the time. It said it felt the policies were 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W at the time. It has said that there was a lack of information to 
show the adviser discussed the reviewable nature with Mr and Mrs W and the future 
affordability. So, it offered a refund of premiums, less the cost of life cover plus interest. It 
also offered to reconstruct the investment into the bond and pay interest of Bank of England 
base rate plus 1% - less withdrawals. The offer of redress is in excess of £450,000.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the offer. They said the purpose of the policy was to reduce their 
IHT liability and accepting this redress would put a significant sum of money back into their 
estate. They again asked for a single premium.
Our Investigator upheld this complaint. She said it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Phoenix to 
reconstruct the policies on a single premium basis as this wasnt offered at the time, nor did 
she agree that Phoenix should pay to have the actuarial calculations done for a single 
premium policy. But she felt the refund of premiums wasnt useful either. She concluded that 
more appropriate advice wouldve been to give Mr and Mrs W the whole of life policies set 
up on a minimum basis. These wouldve likely needed no changes throughout the life of the 
policies.
The Investigator recommended Phoenix reconstruct the policies as if they were set up on a 
minimum basis and absorb the additional premiums to the date of reconstruction, with Mr 
and Mrs W being responsible for paying more going forward.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and said they want a single premium policy to be set up to reflect a 
£250,000 single premium being paid in 1993. Effectively they feel they couldve had around 
£700,000 of cover if this was the case and so this is the position they should now be in.
Phoenix also disagreed. It said that it felt the additional cost of the policy may have been 
prohibitive and that its unlikely Mr and Mrs W wouldve paid this given the option. It also said 
that Mr and Mrs W didnt choose to increase premiums to maintain the life cover so it doesnt 
think theyd have paid over £17,000 annually for the minimum cover basis. It also explained 
the cover was put in place to fit the lump sum Mr and Mrs W were willing to invest to cover 
the annual premiums, and a policy set up on a minimum basis wouldve cost more than that. 
Phoenix finally raised concerns about the tax status of the policies  which would have 
surrender values in excess of £700,000  if they were reconstructed.
I sent my provisional decision on 27 September 2022. My findings, which also form part of 
this decision, were as follows:
My provisional findings
Phoenix has decided to uphold this complaint and felt it was mis-sold so I dont intend to 
comment on whether I think the advice to invest in this policy was suitable. Ill focus on 
whether Phoenixs offer is fair and reasonable or whether it should do something differently 
to put things right.
The position Mr and Mrs W find themselves in is difficult. The policies they have wont 
provide the sum assured they wanted at the outset, but to accept Phoenixs offer means a 
large sum of money being put back into their estate at a time where it may be more difficult 
to  place this outside of the estate. Having considered everything on file, I dont agree with 
the redress that our Investigator has recommended. Whilst this goes some way in 
addressing Mr and Mrs Ws current shortfall in cover, I dont think its what was likely to have 
happened. And I think the redress Phoenix has offered is in line with our guidance and is a 
fair offer. Ill explain why.
Phoenix has said it upheld the complaint based on the lack of evidence that the reviewable 
nature of the policy was made clear to Mr and Mrs W, or that the premiums could increase in 
the future. So, the redress it has proposed has assumed that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
taken the policy out  although also assumes theyd have taken out some life cover as they 
had the intention of writing it into trust to assist with a potential IHT bill when theyd passed 
away. On that basis, a refund of premiums less the cost of life cover plus interest is what 
wed expect Phoenix to offer, and it has done so. It has also ensured that Mr and Mrs W 
havent lost out with the lump sum they invested to pay for the premiums, and has offered a 
refund of the full lump sum plus interest at BOE +1% less withdrawals. So, Im satisfied 
Phoenix has offered redress in line with the assumption that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
taken this policy out.
Mr and Mrs W have continued to say they ought to have been sold a policy for a single 
premium of £250,000. As Phoenix didnt offer these policies I dont agree that this would be 
fair redress. Ive also not been provided with evidence to show that Mr and Mrs W were willing to invest a lump sum of £250,000 to pay for life cover, without the benefit of hindsight. 
The proposed solution put forward by Mr and Mrs Ws representative appears to be 
something that would now deliver what they wanted but with the use of hindsight. Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence its something that they wouldve invested in at the time, and more 
importantly, its not something Phoenix wouldve been able to provide so I dont think this 
proposed redress is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill now turn to the redress our Investigator recommended. Mr and Mrs W had a good level of 
income in 1993 when they were given this advice. And its not unfeasible to say they may 
have been able to afford a policy set up on a minimum basis. But, looking at everything that 
has happened, I dont think its likely theyd have taken a policy out on that basis if it was 
discussed.
Firstly, the policy Phoenix advised them to take was set up on a standard basis, that is that it 
was expected to last their lifetime. We know that this wasnt the case, and Phoenix upheld 
the complaint because the reviewable nature might not have been made clear. But a 
minimum basis policy was unlikely to have been taken had it all been made clear, because 
the policy set up on a standard basis was supposed to be able to last the lifetime. I dont 
think its likely Mr and Mrs W wouldve paid an additional £7,000 per year to take out a policy 
on a minimum basis.
And whilst they may have been able to afford it at the time, its clear from the letter Mr and 
Mrs W sent to Phoenix in 2003 that they were aware they couldve maintained their level of 
cover by increasing their premium/taking out a top up and they chose not to do this. So, I 
find it hard to argue theyd pay anything more in premiums than they currently do.
Its also clear from the point of sale documents that the annual premium was to be generated 
by a single premium investment and tax-free withdrawals from that. So, I think its likely the 
policy they were advised to take linked up with the withdrawals available from the lump sum 
they were willing to invest. I dont agree, in this case, that a policy offered on a minimum 
basis was necessarily the best advice fitting with Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, and even 
if it was, Im not persuaded theyd have taken it out.
It follows that I think the offer Phoenix has made is fair and reasonable in this case. I leave it 
to Mr and Mrs W to decide whether they wish to accept that offer going forward. I do note 
that Mr and Mrs Ws representative has drawn comparisons to what a court would say in this 
scenario, but its important to note that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal 
alternative to court, and this is reflected in the length of this decision. Mr and Mrs W are free 
to pursue the complaint in court if they decide not to accept the decision.
Response to provisional decision
Mr and Mrs Ws representative initially responded to say they were happy with the amount 
but wanted it to remain in trust. It also asked if Mr and Mrs Ws death benefit could be 
increased without increased premiums. Our Investigator responded to explain that 
acceptance of the offer would cancel the policies and that the redress would be paid directly 
to Mr and Mrs W. The Investigator also explained that if Mr and Mrs W kept the policy in 
place, they would have to pay the additional premium for the higher cover.
Phoenix responded to say it had received the provisional decision and was waiting to take 
action if Mr and Mrs W accepted it.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative later responded to ask whether the full settlement value 
could be applied as a single premium contract on Mr Ws life. They also said they didnt want 
the life cover to reduce and that the commission should also be refunded. The Investigator explained that if Mr and Mrs W only wanted to accept part of Phoenixs offer they can speak 
directly to the business about that. The representative then asked whether the policies could 
be left in place but that the death benefit should be increased as compensation.
Our Investigator explained again that Mr and Mrs W cannot keep the policies in place but 
also have the compensation. Mr and Mrs Ws representative then said the compensation 
would fall back inside the estate which would be an issue. They asked whether an additional 
compensation payment could be given if theres a liability to IHT in the next seven years.
Mr and Mrs Ws different representative said the following:
- All reference to a single premium policy originally mentioned should be changed to a 
£150,000 single premium
- The settlement offer made by Phoenix isnt fair and reasonable as it exposes Mr and 
Mrs W to even more financial damage
- Mr and Mrs W will not be able to replace the life cover and would, if accepting this 
redress, have additional IHT liabilities so he cannot recommend any settlement that 
discontinues the life cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any additional evidence that leads me to reach a different 
conclusion here. I have noted the difficult position that Mr and Mrs W would be in if they 
accepted the offer, originally made in 2018, now. I understand the policy was taken out for 
IHT mitigation, and to receive a refund of premiums into their estate could prove problematic.
In this case, what Mr and Mrs W would like is something they wouldnt have had. They want 
a single premiums policy  something that Phoenix didnt offer at the time of advice. They 
also want a higher level of cover for no additional premiums  something again that wouldnt 
be possible. I note they took out cover on a standard basis  which wouldve been set up 
and intended to provide the same sum assured throughout their lives which ordinarily would 
match the objective of providing for an IHT liability. Due to a number of factors it appears this 
didnt happen. Ive also mentioned that Mr and Mrs W had chosen not to increase their 
premiums in 2003 because its clear to me they didnt want to pay anything more for their 
cover.
It was Phoenix that decided this was mis-sold, due to communication over the reviewable 
nature. And as it didnt offer anything else at the time that Mr and Mrs W wouldve taken to 
meet their objectives, it has offered redress to put them in the position had they not taken the 
policy  which is to refund the premiums plus interest. So, for the same reasons Ive 
explained in my provisional decision  a extract of which is above and forms part of this 
decision  the offer Phoenix has made is fair and reasonable.
I have noted that Mr and Mrs W have asked for commission to be refunded as well, but I 
think its likely theyd have taken some investment out had they not taken this policy and so 
commission was always likely to be paid. And, given I think that they were unlikely to pay for 
any of the other policies available, I actually think its likely theyd have ended up with a 
similar policy set up on a similar basis.I do understand Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with this. They have thought of a number 
of different things that may help their situation, which includes accepting part of the offer. If 
they dont accept this decision they are free to approach Phoenix to come to an agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained the offer Phoenix Limited made to Mr and Mrs W is fair and 
reasonable. As this has yet to be paid, I uphold this complaint. I think that fair compensation 
should be calculated as follows (in line with Phoenix Life Limiteds offer):
- Refund the premiums on both life cover policies from inception, less the cost of life 
cover. To this amount add 8% simple interest from the date the premiums were paid 
to the date of settlement.
- Refund the initial investment into the investment bond. To this add interest at Bank of 
England Base Rate plus 1% to the date of settlement less the withdrawals taken.
My decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr and Mrs W the amount produced by 
that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus interest which is the maximum award 
limit based on the event complained about (the sale of the policies) and the date that 
complaint was referred to this service.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more than £160,000, I 
recommend that Phoenix Life Limited pays Mr and Mrs W the balance  which Phoenix Life 
Limited has indicated it will do.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Phoenix Life Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs W can accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs W may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman