DRN-3816643
The complaint
Mr O complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked his account without warning or reason. 
To put things right, Mr O wants Lloyds to compensate him for his loss, and the trouble and 
upset its caused. 
What happened
In February 2021, Lloyds blocked Mr Os account. Mr O contacted the customer service 
department and was told to go into his local branch with proof of identity. In branch he was 
told they couldnt help him. So Mr O called the customer service department again, and this 
time he was told to go to the head office, which took him around four hours to travel to. 
Mr O was told he was given the wrong information as the head office couldnt help him, and 
the block was likely put in place due to suspicious activity and concerns Lloyds had. 
Mr O says he had received funds from overseas for his own treatment, but predominantly to 
pay for private medical treatment for his uncle who was in the UK for that purpose. As a 
result of Lloyds actions, Mr O says hes been left without money to pay for food and bills. 
And, given his acute mental health disposition, this matter has exacerbated both distress 
and the inconvenience hes suffered. 
Mr O complained to Lloyds. In its responses, and in summary, it said: 
- Its looked into the processing delay on his account, and the matter is still being 
looked into. And it cannot give him any further information about this. So, its 
declining this part of his complaint
- It was sorry for referring him to the account holding branch. To make up for the 
trouble and upset this caused, it would pay him £100. It would also pay him a further 
£83.85 to cover his travels costs, £30 for any distress caused and £7 for his call 
costs 
Later around 8 March 2021, Mr Os account was unblocked by Lloyds giving him access to 
it. But a little over a week later, on 17 March 2021, Lloyds placed a block on the account 
again. On 15 April 2022, Lloyds were made aware of a court restraint order against Mr O. 
Amongst other things, this impacted Mr Os Lloyds account. 
Unhappy with Lloyds actions, Mr O referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into Mr Os complaint. In summary they found: 
- The continuation of the block from April 2021 - when the restraint order was issued  
is not being contested here. Lloyds must comply with the terms of the court order 
- They noted Mr O felt strongly about Lloyds placing an account restriction some two 
months before a court order was issued. And Mr O had provided evidence from his 
solicitor, that a public body had confirmed it had not instigated any court orders 
around the time of the first two blocks 
- But a bank has the right to review an account at any time, which will often involve a 
block being placed. No reason nor notice is required to be given by the bank 
- Its understandable that Mr O questions why Lloyds didnt make any enquiries, but a 
review process can be different based on the individual circumstances. The lack of 
enquiry doesnt mean no work, related to its review, was being done by Lloyds
- Regrettably, Lloyds hasnt provided full reasons for what happened with the first two 
blocks between February 2021 and April 2021. But unblocking the account didnt 
negatively affect Mr Os position. Thats because Mr O didnt lose out by having 
access to his account  even if Lloyds had done this in error 
- Its likely Lloyds was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked Mr Os account. In reaching this conclusion, our Investigator was mindful the 
account was subsequently subject to a restraint order which prevented Mr O from 
disposing of any assets. Taken together, Lloyds had not done anything wrong
- Its unclear why Lloyds awarded £37 for any distress caused, and calls made by 
Mr O, when it was within its rights to block the account. But the travel costs, and 
additional £100, was fair compensation for the financial loss and trouble and upset 
the wrong advice to go to the holding branch caused 
Mr O did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points Mr O makes are: 
- Its unfair to conclude the blocks applied before April 2021 were done so in line with 
legal and regulatory obligations placed on Lloyds when it hasnt provided any 
explanation     
- He was entitled to his money, and it was for Lloyds to justify its actions and provide 
details as to why it blocked his account when there was no suspicious activity nor 
any wrongdoing 
- It makes no sense that Lloyds awarded Mr O £37 for distress caused and call costs 
for the first block, for our Investigator to find Lloyds acted in line with its regulatory 
and legal obligations 
- Undue weight was placed on the restraint order - despite one not being in place 
when the first blocks were applied - to find Lloyds did nothing wrong. The restraint 
order shouldnt have been a consideration. And considering it here, renders the 
outcome unsafe 
- The presumption of innocence is a legal principle  a person accused of any crime is 
innocent until proven otherwise
As Mr O didnt agree with what our Investigator said the complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. I note he feels strongly about 
this, and my decision will undoubtedly disappoint him  so, Ill explain why. Banks in the UK, like Lloyds, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
The blocks applied on Mr Os accounts, following the issuing of the courts restraint order, 
are not contested here. So, it follows that the crux of Mr Os complaint relates to Lloyds 
placing blocks on his account prior to that  in February 2021 and March 2021. 
Lloyds hasnt provided enough information for which Id expect it to show this service when 
applying the blocks. So I can understand why Mr O feels so strongly that it acted improperly 
by applying those blocks. But given the severity of the restraint order, I can see why it had a 
meaningful bearing on whether Lloyds acted fairly in applying the blocks it did prior to the 
order being issued. Even if this is retrospective. 
Having said that, when presented with inconclusive or insufficient evidence, I can reach my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  the balance of probabilities. Mr O 
has sent us an email chain between his appointed law firm and a highly placed public body. 
This is dated February 2021. It shows that two other accounts he held with other banks had 
simultaneously been frozen  and the law firm had not received any freezing orders for this 
to be affected. 
The legal representative then asks for conformation if an order had been applied for from the 
public body. Later in March 2021, the public body confirm it has not served a restraint order. 
Given Mr Os legal representative was aware of some form of investigation being carried out 
by a high-level public body relating to his client, Im persuaded this is evidence enough to 
show Lloyds most likely knew of reasons for it to have reasonable concern  and take the 
actions it did.
I note what Mr O says about the presumption of innocence, but I need to decide if Lloyds 
acted fairly, reasonably and line with obligations placed on it when blocking Mr Os access to 
his account. And, on balance, I think it most likely did, given the wider circumstances here. 
Ive also taken into consideration the terms of the account when reaching this finding. 
I recognise Mr O thinks Lloyds should have given him notice that it was going to review his 
account  but theyre not obligated to  nor does it have to tell Mr O a reason, despite him 
wanting to know why it carried out the review.
I don't think it was helpful Lloyds told Mr O his account was blocked due to a processing 
delay. That implies there was an issue with a system or something similar. However the 
blocks were to allow Lloyds to carry out a review. Whats relevant here, is Lloyds' statutory 
obligations allow it to block customers accounts while it reviews things. 
Ive considered the breakdown of the compensation Lloyds awarded Mr O for its erroneous 
advice of telling him to travel to the holding branch. Im satisfied, in broad terms, that its 
acted fairly here. So it doesnt need to do anything more. 
Mr O was given access to his account momentarily in March 2021. This was to his benefit, 
even if its possible Lloyds shouldnt have done so. Being awarded £37 for any distress 
caused by the blocks and calls made by Mr O may likely have been unwarranted given 
Lloyds acted fairly in blocking the account. But Lloyds have paid this to Mr O, and it isnt 
something it now contests. So I wont be making any finding on it. 
Lastly, Mr O says Lloyds actions have been discriminatory. This is a serious allegation, and I have carefully considered it when looking into the information I have had from both parties. 
And having done that, I havent seen any evidence that this is what happened. I havent 
seen that Mr O was treated any differently than another customer wouldve been treated in 
the same circumstances.
My final decision
For the reason above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman