DRN-3405407
Complaint
Mr M says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly refused to support him 
with his overdraft when he ran into financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She thought that Nationwide 
responded in a fair and reasonable manner when Mr M got in contact to say that he was 
struggling to repay his overdraft. So she didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.     
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M got in contact with Nationwide, in early January 2020, to explain 
that hed have difficulty repaying what he owed on his overdraft when Nationwide explained 
that it would be removing the facility, in December 2019. And once a lender is told that a 
borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and 
due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to 
listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most 
appropriate way to move forward. 
As I understand it, Mr M was put on a reducing overdraft limit in January 2020. And Mr M 
benefitted from not having to pay any interest during this period and some of the interest 
which was already due to be added was waived. Mr M managed to clear his outstanding 
balance in full in May 2020. 
So Nationwide appears to have correctly identified that there was a problem in relation       
Mr Ms overdraft usage. And it agreed a mutually acceptable plan which enabled Mr M to exit 
him overdraft without incurring a substantial amount of overdraft fees he says he couldnt 
pay. Indeed, Mr M didnt pay any fees at all during the period of the solution. In these 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Nationwide fairly and appropriately responded to Mr Ms 
request for help in a way that took account of his particular circumstances. And as this is the 
case, Im not upholding this part of Mr Ms complaint.
Even though I think Nationwide didnt act unfairly when Mr M asked for help repaying his 
overdraft, as Mr M has also complained about overdraft charges in general, Ive, in any 
event, also looked at whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably before Mr Ms request.
Before I go any further with this part of my decision, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts Nationwide charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with. That said, Nationwide wont have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr M if it applied any of these interest, fees and charges to his account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware he 
was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether Nationwide charged Mr B even though it knew he was in 
financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case prior to December 2019. Ive 
looked through Mr Ms account statements and cant see that Nationwide ought to have 
realised Mr M might have been struggling during the period concerned. 
Its fair to say that Mr M used his overdraft. But there was no indication that he was hardcore 
borrowing and he even spent significant periods with a credit balance. Equally, while Im not 
seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Ms expenditure, nonetheless there 
are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. So while I accept that they may not have helped, Im not 
persuaded that the overdraft charges, in themselves, were responsible for any periods 
where Mr M was overdrawn for the period Ive reviewed.  
Of course, I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that        
Mr M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in this activity in itself 
which ought to have alerted Nationwide to potential financial difficulty, which meant that it 
would have been fair and reasonable not to have applied the charges here, in circumstances 
where Mr M hadnt asked for help. I agree that this position changed once Mr M asked for 
help. But Ive already explained why the steps Nationwide took from January 2020 onwards 
meant that it treated Mr M fairly and reasonably. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Nationwide treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably  either when Mr M asked for help or when applying charges before 
this. And this means that Im not upholding this complaint. I realise that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr M  especially as it has taken some time for him to receive an answer 
from us and the first adjudicator who looked at his complaint suggested that it should be 
upheld. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman