DRN-2213746
The complaint
Mr R entered into a loan agreement with Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited to finance a 
mobile phone handset. His complaint is that Virgin Media continued to charge him under the 
agreement even though he had returned the handset.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R called Virgin Media on 25 July 2018, six days after entering into the agreement 
for the handset, asking to return it. Under the terms of the agreement it explains that 
if you withdraw from the agreement the handset must be returned in good condition 
and in accordance with delivery instructions received upon notification of withdrawal. 
Virgin Media has said that it processed the return request and sent Mr R a return 
envelope with the relevant tracking details. Mr R has said this envelope was 
provided. A call recording isnt available, but I find it more likely than not that Mr R 
was provided with the information he needed (including the return envelope) to 
enable him to return the handset. 
Mr R didnt use the return envelope and has said he posted the handset and got a 
tracking number and receipt. He has provided a copy of the receipt dated 26 July 
2018. This supports Mr Rs testimony that he returned the handset at that time and 
while I note Virgin Medias comments about Mr R continuing the use the handset, the 
evidence provided shows the number was used but doesnt show that the handset 
was still in use. Therefore, I find it more likely than not that Mr R did return the 
handset on 26 July 2018. However, while I accept, on balance, he returned the 
handset, I have nothing to show that he provided the required information in the 
return envelope to enable Virgin Media to process the return and allocate this to his 
account.
Mr R has said that Virgin Media should have followed up on the handset if it wasnt 
received. I note this comment but as Virgin Media had sent Mr R an envelope 
containing the required details for the return I think it reasonable it would have been 
expecting this to be returned. When Mr R decided to send the handset through the 
post with a tracking number I think it would have been reasonable for him to have 
contacted Virgin Media about this. Mr R had previously returned a handset in 2017 
and at that time followed up on this to ensure the return process was complete. I 
have no evidence to suggest he did this on this occasion.
Mr R is suffering from health issues and I can appreciate why this meant that he 
didnt check the payments coming from his account. However, as Mr R didnt contact 
Virgin Media until August 2019 about the handset, Virgin Media wasnt able to try to 
locate the handset before this time. Had he made contact at the time he returned the 
handset then I would have expected Virgin Media to have acted to try to locate it. 
However due to the time that had passed, this was no longer possible and as Virgin 
Media has said it hasnt been able to recover the handset I do not find I can say it 
was wrong to keep taking the payments under the agreement.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
While I havent upheld this complaint, given the information Mr R has provided, specifically 
about his health, Virgin Media should ensure this is taken into account and that it treats him 
positively and sympathetically in its further dealings with him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman