DRN-3376727
The complaint
Mr R complains about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM). Hes 
unhappy with fluctuations in the values of his investments after the markets have closed.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail but the key facts are as follows:
Mr R brought a complaint to us regarding overnight fluctuations in the values of his 
holdings on HLAMs platform. He gave an example where the value decreased by 
£11,575 between when he checked on 16:45 on 8 January 2021 and when he 
checked again the following morning.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think it should 
be upheld. 
He thought that the fluctuations were primarily due to two reasons. There were 
different price feeds on the platforms portfolio overview page and the portfolio page. 
The portfolio overview page had a delayed price feed that updated periodically but 
the portfolio page had a price feed that reflected live pricing. 
The second reason was that pricing is affected by an opening/closing auction used 
by the London Stock Exchange (LSE) to help determine the opening and closing 
prices of shares. HLAM then had to stream the pricing information to its data provider 
who then updated the information on their website. There was a time difference 
between each company completing this process and publishing their prices which in 
turn could cause fluctuations. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr Rs frustration with the fluctuations in the values of 
his holdings. Ive therefore considered if HLAM have treated him unfairly or have breached 
the terms of the agreement they have with him. Having done so, and while I appreciate it will 
come as a disappointment to him, I dont think his complaint should be upheld and there isnt 
much more I can add to what the investigator has already said. 
From what Ive seen the fluctuation in value is primarily due to the length of time it takes for 
the closing prices to be updated on HLAMs systems. In summary, the LSE has an auction 
each trading day at the close of the market. The purpose of the auction period is to help 
determine the closing price for Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service (SETS) 
securities. 
There is an initial auction call period where outstanding buy and sell orders are settled. The 
order book is then frozen and an algorithm is used to calculate the closing price for each 
security. This is usually completed by around 16:35 but I think its important to point out that 
the closing prices can be delayed if it relates to a liquid security which has been subject to 
high trading volumes.
Closing prices are then streamed to HLAMs data provider who then updates the prices on 
HLAMs website. This can take some time and is dependent on when the closing auction 
ends. Given that the closing auctions can sometimes be extended, I dont think its 
unreasonable that prices may occasionally fluctuate after 16:45 and therefore I dont think 
that I can fairly say that HLAM have done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly.
Ive also considered if Mr R has been financially disadvantaged by the fluctuations. Because 
the markets are closed he wouldnt be able to trade, so he wouldnt have been able to 
realise the higher values for his holdings. The earliest point at which he could trade would be 
the next trading day but by that point the values would have updated. Therefore, I dont think 
Mr R has been financially disadvantaged. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman