DRN-1387736
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to her alongside a credit card in 1995. 
What happened
Mrs S applied for both a VISA and a Mastercard credit card by the same application form. 
She applied for PPI at the same time. Although Mrs S applied for two credit cards, as PPI 
was sold for both accounts at exactly the same time, I have treated this as one sale. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with that view. 
She disagreed with what our adjudicator said about how PPI was sold. Mrs S said she 
applied for her credit cards after filling out a leaflet and not in a face to face meeting. She 
said Barclays had already paid back some PPI for one of her credit cards and she 
questioned how she would have understood about PPI for one card and not another.
 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
At the outset, I appreciate that Mrs S said in her response to our adjudicator that Barclays 
had already repaid PPI for one of her credit cards. I just want to be clear that the evidence 
Ive seen doesnt suggest Barclays has made any PPI refund for either the VISA or 
Mastercard that Mrs S applied for in 1995. 
Ive also accepted what Mrs S said about how she applied for her credit cards. Ive had the 
benefit of seeing the application form that was completed at the time  and I agree with Mrs 
S that her application could well have been made after she completed a leaflet. It makes no 
material difference to my decision, but I have treated this as a postal sale  that is Mrs S 
applied for her credit cards and the PPI by post after filling out a leaflet. That being so, I think 
Mrs S would have been able to fill out the application form in her own time and at her own 
pace. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing a copy of Mrs Ss application form. It isnt fully legible, so 
Barclays also provided me with a sample copy of the same form. I am satisfied that I can 
discern from those documents what Mrs S would have seen when she made her application 
and how she answered the relevant questions.
 
When it sold PPI to Mrs S, Barclays had to make it clear that she had a choice about 
whether to take the cover out. Looking at the application form, I can see that there were two 
equally prominent boxes to select about PPI  one for Mrs S to say she wanted cover and 
another to say she didnt. Mrs S has selected the yes box. If she didnt want the policy, she 
could have selected no. I think the wording is sufficiently clear to indicate that the PPI was 
optional and Mrs S could have refused it if she wanted to
. 
As Mrs S didnt attend a Barclays branch to make her application, I cant say this was an 
advised sale. That means Barclays was required to give Mrs S enough information about the 
PPI so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information 
had to be clear, fair and not misleading. 
Looking at the application form, I dont think the cost of the cover is clearly set out. And I 
dont think it would have been clear to Mrs S that she had to pay interest on the cost of those 
premiums if her balance wasnt cleared every month. So I can see how the information 
Barclays provided could have been clearer. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold 
the complaint. I now have to consider what Mrs S would have done if Barclays had told her 
everything it should have done. 
To help me decide what Mrs S is most likely to have done, Ive looked at what we know 
about the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what Mrs S told us 
about her personal circumstances from the relevant time. 
If Mrs S had to make a PPI claim, then it seems to me that 10% of her credit card balance 
would have been repaid for every month she was off sick or if she was made redundant. The 
cover would have lasted for a maximum of 12 months. 
Quite understandably, Mrs S told us she cant remember what her sick pay was in 1995. But 
shed been in her job for around two years and so I think its unlikely that shed have got full 
sick pay for 12 months, which is how long the PPI would have lasted for. And she also said 
that she didnt have any other means to make her repayments at what would have no doubt 
been a stressful time for her if she couldnt work. 
Mrs S appears to have been in good health when the cover was sold. So I dont think shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about her wider circumstances that would have stopped her being 
able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
So taking all of these things into account, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mrs 
S if she was out of work. It follows that I cant say shed have acted differently even if 
Barclays had given her more or better information about the PPI cover. 
I said above that this wasnt an advised sale. But just in case I am wrong on that point and 
Barclays did have to check whether the cover was suitable, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think it probably was.  
Putting all of these things together, I cant say PPI was mis-sold and so I dont need to tell 
Barclays to take any further action in respect of the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman