DRN-1728984
The complaint
O is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc recommended opening a currency account but then 
wouldnt let them pay cash currency into it.
In bringing this complaint, O is represented by Mr C  one of its directors  but for ease of 
reading Ill refer to O throughout this decision.
What happened
O is a small company established to provide bespoke services to clients based in China. O 
opened a bank account with Barclays in April 2019. The directors of O then agreed to meet 
with one of Barclays specialist client solutions advisors to discuss how Barclays could help 
them with their trading activities in China.
O met with Barclays advisor in May 2019. The advisor recommended that O open a 
Chinese RMB currency account. This would allow O to receive and make payments in 
Chinese currency without the need to immediately convert it to GBP. O could then choose to 
convert currency at a point when the exchange rate is most favourable to them.
In August 2019, O visited a branch of Barclays to deposit a cash sum of Chinese currency 
into their currency account. Theyd collected the cash in person following a visit to their client 
in China. But Barclays told O that they wouldnt be able to accept the cash. So, O 
complained to Barclays. O were unhappy that the cash couldnt be deposited into the 
currency account and said that they had been wrongly advised.
O told Barclays that they were experiencing issues with receiving international payments 
from their client in China, so they brought the cash over instead. O believed they could pay it 
into their currency account. The Barclays branch staff made enquiries internally. They told O 
that they could only accept certain currencies in cash into a currency account. This didnt 
include Chinese RMB. They said that O would need to convert the cash to GBP and pay it 
into their normal current account.
Following investigation into Os complaint, Barclays sent a letter dated 9 August 2019. They 
confirmed that they only provide a notes service on twelve currency account types and 
Chinese RMB was not included. They explained that this was a business decision. They 
accepted that thered been a lack of information provided when they opened the account and 
apologised. They offered compensation of £200 to reflect the inconvenience caused, the 
length of time taken to respond to Os complaint and the poor service when the currency 
account was opened.
O contacted Barclays specialist complaint team in October 2019 and accepted the 
compensation offered. However, O remained unhappy with Barclays response. O felt that 
considerable costs had been incurred and that this placed the business at risk. So, O 
decided to refer the complaint to this service.
Barclays have since provided confirmation that they have paid O £729.25 for money lost 
through conversion of the currency. This was because the Chinese RMB cash had to be 
converted to GBP to be deposited.  Barclays said that this was requested by O as a 
resolution to the issues raised when using the Chinese RMB currency account.
One of our investigators has looked into Os complaint. She thought that Barclays didnt 
need to do anything more here, but O disagreed. O believed that the compensation paid 
didnt reflect the costs and losses theyd incurred. So, O asked for their complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision, I first needed to establish whether the advice given was appropriate 
for Os needs. Then whether the information provided to O was clear and understandable. I 
have also considered whether Barclays made any mistakes in refusing to handle the cash. 
Also, Ive considered whether Barclays were at fault for the failed attempts by Os client in 
China to send an electronic payment.
Ive listened to a recording of the call between O and Barclays specialist advisor. Barclays 
asked various questions in order to clearly understand the nature of Os business and their 
plans for the future. O explained how the business operated and the nature of their client(s) 
in China. O said that they currently ask for payment in GBP but expected to be asked to 
accept payment in Chinese RMB. O confirmed that one of the directors spends a lot of time 
in China and uses either cash currency or a credit card, when there.
Barclays explained about UK based currency accounts offered by Barclays. They explained 
the associated charges and told O that any account would have a dedicated sort code, 
account number and access to an IBAN (International Bank Account Number) and a Swift 
Code  these are used when sending money internationally between banks.
O asked for a Chinese RMB currency account to be opened. O also asked about on-line 
banking access and Barclays explained that the account would appear on Os normal on-line 
banking screen as an additional account. Barclays also agreed to send the relevant leaflets 
and charging details by email.
I think that the discussion was informative, and the recommendations were appropriate and 
proportionate to the information provided by O. They appeared to meet the needs that were 
identified. But, the use of cash currency was never raised or discussed by either O or 
Barclays. 
I have also seen the notes made by the Barclays specialist adviser following this discussion. 
They mention that O is looking for the best way to receive payment and they may need to 
invoice the Chinese companies in CNY (Chinese RMB). I have no reason to doubt what 
these notes say as they were made as a record of what was discussed at the time.
Barclays sent a letter to O dated 20 May 2019. It confirmed that the currency account had 
been opened and included the account details, and the IBAN. They also enclosed a 
Business Currency Account leaflet. The leaflet explains the additional conditions relating to 
Barclays currency accounts. Under the heading of Charges it states, Transactional fees 
apply to bank transfers, cash credits/withdrawals.
The letter also enclosed a document entitled International Tariff. Under the heading 
Currency Current Account Services it states, Currency notes paid in/withdrawnCharge 
per itemAll other currency accounts2% of transaction value (min. £10.00).Based upon the information provided here, I think its reasonable to conclude that O would 
think that they could pay cash into a Barclays currency account. Neither the letter or the 
accompanying documents mention any limitation or restriction as regards amounts or 
currency.
Barclays have provided to us another brochure entitled Currency Current Accounts. This 
brochure specifically states, You can only directly deposit foreign bank notes in the following 
currencies into a currency account. There then follows a list of 12 currencies. The Chinese 
RMB is not listed. However, under the main heading, the brochure states Personal Current 
Accounts. So, its reasonable for O to conclude that this wouldnt apply to Barclays 
Business Currency Accounts here.
O has explained that their Chinese client was unsuccessful in making an electronic 
International Payment to Os account with Barclays. O has provided correspondence from 
their Chinese client which states that when they tried to send the money it was not 
approved. The client said they also referred this to their bank in China who gave the same 
reason.
Barclays have confirmed that they receive many electronic international payments from 
China each day. They have checked and confirmed that there is no technical reason why a 
payment couldnt be received into Os Chinese RMB currency account held with them. 
Accepting the comments of Os client, there is no evidence to suggest that Barclays were at 
fault here. There are many reasons why a payment request may fail. But these wouldnt 
necessarily be the fault of Barclays. Here, the evidence doesnt suggest that the issues the 
client had were because of something Barclays did or didnt do. So, I cant reasonably hold 
Barclays responsible for the payment failing.
Barclays have confirmed that they were aware that O was visiting China. But they have also 
said that they werent aware of Os intention to bring payment in cash into the UK and 
deposit it into their currency account. Again, I have seen no evidence to suggest otherwise. 
So, I dont think its fair to hold Barclays responsible for something that was ultimately Os 
choice to deal with this situation as they did.
Having considered all of this though, I agree that Barclays failed to make it clear to O that 
they couldnt deposit cash currency into their Chinese RMB currency account. I believe that 
the documentation provided by Barclays would lead O to reasonably think that they could. 
Barclays have confirmed that they cant for their own business reasons. This is Barclays own 
choice and its one theyre entitled to make as a business. But I agree that in the individual 
circumstances here  Barclays should recognise the impact this had on O. 
O believes that the compensation awarded should be more substantial than that already 
offered. Its important to recognise that our role is to provide a fair and impartial service to 
help settle disputes. Its not a regulatory one. Neither is it our role to penalise financial 
institutions where they make a mistake. Where a mistake has been made, we can award an 
amount that we consider fair compensation to ensure that a customer has not lost out 
financially. We may also consider awards to reflect the inconvenience caused to a business. 
But, as O is Barclays customer here, we can only consider the inconvenience caused to it  
rather than any personal impact on its directors as individuals.
  
With that in mind, I believe that the compensation paid of £200 is a fair reflection for the 
inconvenience caused to O. Its in line with what I would expect to see in these 
circumstances. Barclays have also made an additional payment of £729.25 to reimburse O 
for any exchange rate loss when the Chinese RMB cash was converted to GBP. This means that O hasnt lost out financially in completing this transaction. I think that this is fair and 
reasonable based upon the information that O was provided with.
However, I cant hold Barclays responsible for the failure of the International Payment by Os 
client. I also believe that Os decision to bring cash back to the UK was their own choice. So, 
I wont be making any further award here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman