DRN-3573177
The complaint
Mr B complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly reduced his no claims discount after 
it recorded a claim on his motor insurance policy as his fault. 
What happened
In January 2022 the named driver on Mr Bs motor insurance policy had an accident.
On 14 January 2022 the accident was reported by a third-party who said Mr Bs car collided 
with the rear of their stationary vehicle. 
esure contacted Mr B and he said that his named driver was driving at the time of the 
accident. And the third-party had performed an emergency stop and his car collided with the 
back of their car. 
Based on this information and because this version of events was similar to the event as 
described by the third-party, esure said Mr Bs named driver was responsible for the 
accident. It was recorded as a full fault against Mr Bs policy. As Mr Bs no claims discount 
(NCD) was not protected it was reduced in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
When Mr B brought his complaint to our service, he gave a different version of the accident. 
He said whilst his car was stationary, and the named driver was in it, the third-party car 
reversed into his car. 
esure said it settled the claim based on the initial statements given by himself and the third-
party and therefore the incident had been dealt with as a fault claim against his policy. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and felt esure had 
carried out a fair investigation regarding fault. And based on the evidence available esure 
had fairly decided that Mrs Bs named driver was at fault and correctly applied the reduction 
in NCD according to his policy terms and conditions.
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fault
Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as ultimately thats a matter for the 
courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Bs policy allows esure to settle claims as it sees fit. 
That means esure doesnt require his consent to decide how to settle a claim. So it may 
make a decision that he doesnt agree with. In this case I will look to see if esure have 
decided fairly. 
When there is a dispute over who was at fault for an accident, insurers consider what a
court is most likely to conclude based on the evidence available. 
Mr B has given two versions of the accident that happened whilst a named driver was driving 
his car. The first version was given to esure in January 2022 and the second given to our 
service in March 2022. 
Mr Bs initial statement matched what the third-party also described had happened his car 
ran in to the back of the third-party car - and so esure recorded this as a fault claim against 
his policy.
When Mr B brought his complaint to our service, he changed the details of the accident and 
said the third-party car reversed into his car.
 
esure considered Mr Bs changed version of events. It said based on Mr Bs version of 
events changing so drastically, and as his original version of events were similar to that 
provided by the third-party it would be difficult for it to argue in court that Mr Bs named driver 
was not at fault. It maintained its decision to record it as fault against Mr Bs policy. 
I have seen no explanation of why Mr Bs version of events changed so much after esure 
carried out its investigations into the claim.
I think esure were correct to maintain its decision to record this accident as fault against Mr 
Bs policy based on the original version of events he gave.
No claims discount
I looked at Mr Bs policy and saw that no claims discount protection was not included. This is 
explained in the policy schedule as follows:
What happens to your unprotected No Claim Discount if you make a claim?
If we've been unable to recover all our losses in relation to the claim - known as 'non 
recoverable' or fault claim, your NCD entitlement will be reduced at renewal to the amount 
shown in the table below:
NCD entitlement per non recoverable claim
NCD years at the 
start of the period of 
insurance1 claim 2 claims 3 claims
0  2 years Nil Nil Nil
3 years 1 year Nil Nil
4 years 2 years Nil Nil
5 or more years 3 years 1 year Nil
I saw that Mr B had 11 years NCD and I saw that esure said this would be reduced to three 
years due to the accident in January 2022 being recorded as a fault claim. 
As this is in line with the information in the schedule of insurance, I agree that esure have 
fairly applied this reduction. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not require esure to do anymore in this 
case.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman