DRN-2948335
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
The ceiling collapsed in Miss Bs home, so she contacted Fairmead to make a claim. 
Fairmead asked Miss B to provide photos of the damage, a cause of damage report from a 
contractor and an estimate or quote for repairs.
Miss B provided a quote from a contractor, but it didnt include a cause of damage. So 
Fairmead asked Miss B for further details and also contacted the contractor to confirm the 
cause of damage. The contractor told Fairmead that the damage was the result of wear and 
tear to external parts of the house, including the roof and guttering, which allowed water to 
enter. So, Fairmead declined the claim as this wasnt covered by the policy.
Miss B disagreed with the details provided by her contractor. She provided a report from a 
roof contractor. This said the roof and guttering was in good condition, but that he couldnt 
confirm a cause of damage to the ceiling. Fairmead considered the report and whether the 
damage was covered under any perils covered by the policy. Having done so, it maintained 
its decision to decline the claim.
So, Miss B referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said Fairmead had investigated the claim and no cause of damage was 
identified and there was nothing to show the damage was covered by an insured peril under 
the terms of the policy.
As Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Insurers set out what is and isnt covered under a policy in their policy terms. For a claim to 
be paid, it needs to be an insured event under the terms of the policy. It is for a 
policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. An insurer isnt required 
to establish this on a policyholders behalf.
When Miss B contacted Fairmead to make a claim, she wasnt sure what had caused the 
damage. So, I dont think Fairmead had enough information at that point to know whether 
the damage was due to an insured event. Fairmead asked Miss B to provide a cause of 
damage report, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
When Miss B arranged for a contractor to inspect the roof, his report said:
After a thorough investigation we diagnosed the source of the problem which was on the 1st 
floor front bedroom, the external facia capping board which sits under the guttering had 
crumbled away due to general wear & tear causing water to seam into the bedroom window 
bay top right hand corner causing aggressive water marks and allowing water to travel down 
the wall into the bedroom carpet & floor boards and existing into the ceiling below causing 
the ceiling to absorb the water & collapse causing the damage.
This has been a ongoing probelm for sometime, time limit can't be provided accurately (as 
original)
Miss B raised concerns with Fairmead about the contractors findings. Following this, 
Fairmead asked the contractor to provide some more details about how the water entered 
the property. The contractor provided some photos and said:
the capping boards on the side of property is damaged allowing water to seam through to 
the bedroom and then allowing the water to travel down to living room ceiling and causing 
the current damage & the mortar which sits on the verges has started to crumble (as 
original)
Following this, Fairmead declined the claim because it considered the external issues that 
the contractor said led to the ceiling collapse were due to gradual deterioration, which wasnt 
covered by the policy. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
Miss B later submitted a report from a roofing company. This explained there werent any 
issues with the roof or guttering and also said:
Regards to front living room leak it was not caused by roof as it would be impossible to 
cause front room leak from 2 floors above I can't specify how front room was damp/leaking 
but can assure you it's not from main roof or gutters fascia.
So, when Fairmead was provided with reports about the cause of damage, one said it was 
wear and tear and the other declined to provide a reason for the ceiling collapsing. Im aware 
that Miss B has said Fairmead should have followed up with the roofer to see if he could 
specify a cause of damage. But I think the roofer had been very clear in his report that he 
couldnt provide this and I dont think Fairmead was required to try and persuade him to do 
so. 
Miss B has also said the claim should have been dealt with as storm damage or accidental 
damage. So, Ive thought about this. For a claim to be covered under the storm peril, it would 
need to the result of a one-off storm event. Fairmead did look at whether the damage could 
have been caused by a storm but, when it looked at weather reports, it didnt find any storm 
conditions. Ive also looked at weather conditions around the time of the claim but didnt see 
anything that would be considered to be a storm. So, I dont think Fairmead needed to 
consider the damage under the storm peril.
Ive also thought about whether the ceiling collapse should have been considered as 
accidental damage. Fairmead considered whether the damage was covered by this part of 
the policy, but decided that it wasnt. This was because the policy described accidental 
damage cover as designed to protect Your Home or Outbuildings from Accidental Damage 
caused by You, Your guests or Vermin. I havent seen any suggestion that the damage was 
caused in this way, so I also think it was reasonable that Fairmead didnt deal with the claim 
under this part of the policy.The cost of dealing with the collapsed ceiling wouldnt be covered simply because an 
insurance policy was in place at the time. The damage needed to be caused by an insured 
event. I havent seen any evidence that persuades me the damage was caused by an event 
listed in the policy. So, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline to deal with the 
claim.
I dont uphold this complaint or require Fairmead to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman