DRN-3576103
The complaint
Mr S held an account with Citibank UK Limited. He complains that Citibank introduced 
monthly fees for his account, which they didnt notify him about. He also complains that he 
has not been able to access the account since November 2019. 
What happened
Mr S held two accounts with Citibank, a euro account and a sterling account. His overseas 
pension was paid into his euro account and he was able to operate both accounts with one 
visa card until July 2019.  
From November 2019 Mr S says he had no access to his euro account, no debit card, 
cheque book or online access. 
In April 2020, due to Brexit, Mr S decided to change his overseas pension to sterling, and 
have it paid into another UK bank account instead, so the last euro pension deposit was 
made to Citibank on 30 July 2020. 
In July 2020 Citibank started to deduct 150 euros per month from the euro account as a 
euro deposit fee. Mr S says he was not aware of this fee being deducted until May 2021, 
by which time he had paid 3150 euros without his knowledge. 
Mr S complained to Citibank about the fee in May 2021 and closed his account in June 
2021, transferring the whole amount to a UK bank.  
Citibank provided a final response in August 2021 in which they said that they had sent Mr S 
an e mail on 7 April 2020 advising of the euro deposit fee, and the e mail was successfully 
delivered to the e mail address they held on file. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response as he said he hadnt received any correspondence.  
Mr S brought the complaint to us and it was looked into by one of our investigators who 
thought that Citibank had fairly followed their process.  
  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr S and the business and have asked for 
further information from Citibank in coming to my provisional decision. 
Were Citibank entitled to introduce a euro deposit fee?
Citibank decided to change the way they charge for accounts because of the continuing 
negative interest rate of the European Central Bank. They introduced a monthly fee for euro 
accounts with balances held above 100k euros from July 2020. The fee was implemented in  
bands, dependent on the amount held in the account, and the appropriate monthly fee for Mr 
S was 150 euros a month.
It didnt matter that the account wasnt active, and that there were no further pension 
deposits being made after July 2020, because the fee was levied on the account balance.
 From the information I have seen, Citibank were entitled to make this change to the terms 
and conditions of their accounts, provided that they notified the customers about the change.  
Did Citibank send Mr S notification of these changes to the terms of his account?
Citibank told us that notifications were sent to customers advising them of the changes in 
February, April and May, with implementation initially aimed for April, but actually 
implemented in July 2020.
However, on the communication log for Mr Ss account, I could see only one notification 
about this being sent by e mail which was on 7 April 2020. So, I was concerned that Mr S 
hadnt been sent all of the correspondence to notify him of the change. 
I raised further concerns about the e mail address that had been used, and following some 
further communication with Citibank, they accepted that the e mail address that they were 
using had been input incorrectly by one digit, and so any e mails sent to that address would 
not have reached Mr S in any event.  
So, I then asked Citibank to explain the process for issuing letters to customers when e 
mails have bounced back, and I asked them to show me evidence that these three 
notifications were also sent by post to Mr S.
 
Citibank have provided me with generic copies of the three letters that they say were sent to 
all customers who were identified as bounce back customers. They have also given me e 
mail exchanges between staff members from June 2020 which show that they sent bounce 
back letters to 2575 customers, and they have provided me with bulk postage receipts 
showing that a number of letters were posted on a particular day.
 Within these documents there is an e mail from one member of staff which says that Mr S 
was on the list for a bounce back letter, but it doesnt say which of the three letters it refers 
to, and I havent seen the list.  Citibank have confirmed that they hold no digital evidence of 
a letter being issued to Mr S. 
  
So, having read through everything that Citibank have sent me, Im not satisfied that this 
evidence shows that Mr S was sent advance notice that there was to be a change to his 
euro account fees. 
Citibank have confirmed that they held an incorrect e mail address, and it is therefore up to 
them to demonstrate that they sent the relevant letters to Mr S by post. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that Mr S has told us that as soon as Mr S became aware 
of the fees, he moved his money and closed the account, and so I consider that if he had 
been aware of these charges earlier, he would have moved his funds then, rather than incur 
the 150 euro a month fee. 
Access to his account 
Mr S has raised an additional issue which is that he didnt have access to his account 
between July 2019 and May 2021 as he was never supplied with another card following the 
expiry of his card in July 2019.  Citibank have confirmed to us that there was no block on Mr Ss account, and the last card 
was issued in 2018. It isnt clear if another one was issued after July 2019. I have read 
through the account notes that Citibank have provided me with, and I cant see any notes 
that show Mr S has tried to make contact with Citibank to discuss having no access or that 
there are any issues with his card. The account notes show no contact from Mr S between 
October 2019 and May 2021. So, I am unable to conclude that Mr S was prevented from 
having access to his account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Citibank havent replied but Mr S has. He says that in respect of account access, he was 
effectively prevented from a banking service following Citibanks closure of their Hannover 
Square branch in 2017, and the expiry of his visa card in July 2019. 
I have considered Mr Ss points, but I havent changed my decision. The account statements 
I have been provided with date back to September 2018 and show no debits or withdrawals, 
even though Mr S had a valid visa card until July 2019. In addition, I have seen no evidence 
of Mr S being prevented from accessing his funds, or of any complaint being raised with 
Citibank about this until Mr S raised the issue of the euro deposit fee being deducted.      
In view of this, Im making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above.
Putting things right
As I am not satisfied that Citibank gave Mr S proper notice of the implementation of the euro 
deposit fees to his account, I direct that they should reimburse him the euro deposit fees that 
were applied to his account from July 2020. 
They should also pay 8% simple interest on those fees from the date that each one was 
incurred until the date of settlement.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about Citibank UK Ltd and directing them to put things right 
as detailed above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman