DRN-1998819
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that a used car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement 
from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for 
purpose, contrary to the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
What happened
In January 2019 Mr O entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander for a used 
car. It was then some five and a half years old and had a recorded mileage of 34,000 miles. 
It had a cash price of £15,490. Mr O paid an advance payment of £5,000 and agreed to pay 
the balance by monthly instalments over the following 59 months.
About a week after delivery, the car developed a fault with its turbo. He contacted the 
supplying dealer (SD) on a number of occasions, but it didnt assist in any way. So in 
March 2019 he had the fault repaired by a garage of his choice.
By this time further faults had become evident. So he complained about these to Santander. 
Santander arranged for an independent mechanical engineer (IME) to inspect the car. The 
IME confirmed there were faults, in particular, to the gearbox and suspension, which needed 
investigation, and that these faults would have been developing at delivery.
Santander wasnt able to get the SD to repair the car. So in June 2019 it said it would cover 
the costs of the repairs identified by the IMEs report. By this time Mr O was unhappy with 
the car and wanted Santander to replace it. So he complained to us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She thought the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality, as required by the CRA, when delivered to Mr O. He had given 
SD the opportunity to repair the car, but it was still suffering from faults as evidenced by the 
IME report. So she recommended that Santander should:
allow Mr O to reject the car and arrange for it to be collected at no cost to him;
refund the advance payment of £5,000 plus interest
refund the costs of £575.40 Mr O had incurred in repairing the turbo plus interest;
pay Mr O £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused him; and
remove any adverse information about the conditional sale agreement from Mr Os 
credit file.
 
Initially neither Santander nor Mr O accepted the investigators recommendation. Santander 
didnt think it had been given an opportunity to repair the car. So it was only willing to pay for 
the repairs identified as required by the IME report. Mr O thought he should be refunded 
other costs he had incurred in respect of the car, as well as some or all of the monthly 
payments he had made.In February 2020, Santander said it would accept the investigators recommendation. Mr O 
said he still thought he should be refunded some of the monthly payments he had made. He 
said he had not used the car after the end of February 2020. He was also concerned about 
the timing of any settlement payment in relation to handing back the car, and removing 
information from his credit file. He said he needed to maintain his mobility because of his job.
Santander confirmed that Mr O would receive any settlement payment on the day the car 
was collected, or the next working day, by same-day transfer. It offered to fund a hire car to 
assist Mr O with the handover. However, Mr O said he would be unable to hire a car 
because of his age.
The investigator recommended to Santander that in addition to the terms she had previously 
recommended it should refund all monthly payments Mr O had made since the end of 
February 2020, plus interest, as he hadnt made any use of the car since then.
The investigator asked if Santander would confirm that, to assist Mr O in replacing the car:
it would update Mr Os credit file as soon as possible after settlement; and
it would pre-approve finance for Mr O on a replacement car.
 
During the current Covid-19 situation Santander hasnt responded to the investigators 
further recommendation and request. So this complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional view to Mr O and to Santander on 24 June 2020. In it I said 
Santander had now accepted that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at delivery. For the 
reasons the investigator had explained, I agreed it was fair and reasonable that Mr O should 
be allowed to reject the car, and be compensated as the investigator mentioned in her 
original recommendation.
As Mr O hadnt had any use of the car since the end of February 2020, I also agreed that 
Santander should refund all monthly payments Mr O had made under the agreement since 
the end of February 2020, plus interest until settlement, and should update Mr Os credit file 
in respect of the agreement as soon as possible after settlement.
To assist the process of replacing the car, Mr O had asked Santander if it would pre-approve 
finance for him to acquire a replacement car. I said this wasnt something I could direct 
Santander to do. But I urged it to do what it could to assist the replacement process.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr O responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision. He said he would 
appreciate it if Santander were to pre-approve him on the same type of agreement on 
another vehicle, but understood this was up to it.
Santander said that having accepted the investigators view, it had nothing to add. However, 
it said it wasnt able to pre-approve customers for finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr O nor Santander has provided any fresh information or evidence in response 
to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
I think Santander should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my final decision 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
1. treat the conditional sale agreement as at an end as from the date Mr O accepts my 
final decision, with Mr O having nothing further to pay under the agreement or any of 
its provisions;
 
2. arrange for the car to be collected from Mr O at a time convenient to him, and at no 
cost to him, and with any settlement payment being received by Mr O on the day the 
car is collected, or the next working day, by same-day transfer;
 
3. refund the advance payment of £5,000 Mr O paid under the agreement;
 
4.  refund all monthly payments made by Mr O under the agreement since the end of 
February 2020;
 
5. refund the costs of £575.40 Mr O incurred in repairing the turbo;
 
6. pay Mr O interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple on items 3. 4. and 5. above from the 
respective dates of payment by Mr O until settlement; (1)
 
7. pay Mr O £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused him; and
 
8. remove any adverse information about the conditional sale agreement from Mr Os 
credit file as soon as possible after settlement.
 
 
 
(1)  If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman