DRN-2369664
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Oodle.
In January 2020 Mr F experienced a loud bang from the engine and the engine management 
light came on. The car was recovered to the supplying dealer, who inspected the car and 
advised Mr F that it believed he had caused the damage himself, or had been involved in an 
accident, and that therefore it wasnt willing to cover the cost of repairs.
Mr F raised a complaint with Oodle, who arranged for an independent inspection of the car. 
Based on the findings of the inspection, Oodle advised Mr F that it wasnt able to assist 
because the damage had been caused after the point of supply.
Mr F didnt agree with the inspection report and arranged a further inspection. This report 
concluded that the damage was present or developing at the point of supply.
Oodle reviewed both inspection report again and felt that the first report was more reliable. It 
advised Mr F that it wasnt upholding his complaint. 
Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although both of the reports reached 
different conclusions as to how the fault occurred, he thought that the second report was 
more persuasive because it was more thorough and contained more evidence in support of 
what the engineer said. The investigator thought it was more likely that the fault with the car 
was the result of a failure of a previous repair and said that Oodle should arrange for the car 
to be repaired or allow Mr F to reject the car if a repair was uneconomical.
Oodle didnt agree. It didnt think the report obtained by Mr F should be given the same 
weight as the first inspection report because it was carried out by a company which offered 
complaint resolution services. Oodle questioned the independence of the report. Oodle 
provided further comments from the engineer who had carried out the first inspection, who 
thought the car may have been subject to a previous repair but had then suffered a 
secondary incident after the point of supply.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reaosbsale person would regard as acceptable, taking into account all of the relevant factors 
such as (amongst other thigs) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it as present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the 
business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the 
consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr F and Oodle disagree about whether there was a fault with the car at the point of supply. 
Ive looked at all the available evidence to determine whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality.
The real issue in this complaint is not whether theres a fault, but whether the fault was 
present or developing at the point of supply, or whether it was caused by something that Mr 
F did whilst driving the car.
Ive looked at both inspection reports. The first inspection was carried out in March 2020 and 
suggest that the car was involved in an impact with a non-yielding object such as a kerb or 
speed bump. The engineer said that this was the likely cause of damage to the transmission 
casting, resulting in a coolant explosion and damage to the intercooler pipework. The 
engineer also noted impact damage to the front exhaust flexi section and heavy scuffing to 
the underside of the lower bumper. The report concluded that the damage could not have 
been present at the point of supply because the car wouldve been undriveable.
The second inspection was carried out in May 2020. This also identified damage to the 
gearbox casting, front exhaust, catalytic converter, coolant hose and intercooler pipe. The 
engineer noted damage to the lower front bumper and said this had been the subject of a 
previous repair, evidence by cable ties. The report stated that the gearbox casing and 
broken section had been  broken for some time and had been subject to a previous repair. 
The engineer noted that the lower support bracket which bolts from the suspension sub 
frame to the gearbox casing had been cross threaded, causing damage to the threads within 
the gearbox casing itself. The engineer noted that a bonding agent had been used in the 
previous repairs which had failed. The engineer also commented on the damage to the lower 
bumper and said this was not in the same area as the damage to the gearbox casing. He 
concluded that there was no evidence of an impact directly below the gearbox casing. The 
report concluded that the car had failed as a result of an unsuccessful previous repair to the 
gearbox casing and underside of the car.
I understand that Oodle doesnt accept the second report as being independent because its 
been prepared by a company who mitigate loss for motorists in insurance claims. Whilst I 
dont disagree that this is one of the services offered by the company, I can see that it offers 
many other services as well, including vehicle inspections. Im satisfied that Mr F engaged 
the company to inspect the car  not to quote for repairs  and on that basis Im satisfied that 
it is independent and carries equal weight as the first report.
With both reports reaching different conclusions, I need to decide which report is more 
persuasive. On balance, I prefer the second report. Ill explain why. Its more detailed than 
the first report and the photographs  support what the engineer has said. In considering the 
photographs myself, Im persuaded that the damage to the underside of the bumper isnt in 
the same place as the damage to the gearbox casing. The photos also show cable tied 
parts, cross threading and the presence of adhesive, which leads me to believe that there is 
evidence of previous repairs as the report suggests. 
Ive taken into account what the second report says about the previous repairs. Ive also had 
regard to the MOT which was carried out prior to Mr F acquiring the car. the MOT identifies 
damage to the nearside front strut mounting. Whilst Im not able to say that this defect is linked to the  damage identified on both reports, Im satisfied that this is indicative of 
previous damage to this area of the car, which supports the conclusions in the second 
report.
Having reviewed all of the available information, theres nothing to suggest that the previous 
repairs took place during the time that Mr F had the car. I think the previous repairs pre date 
the point of supply. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that the fault occurred as the 
result of a previous repair. Im persuaded by the second report, which says the previous 
repair was of poor quality and led to the failure of the car. 
Ive taken into account the further comments of the engineer who carried out the first 
inspection. In these comments,, the engineer concedes that a  previous repair has taken 
place. He says he thinks theres been a secondary incident which caused failure of the car. 
Ive read what hes said but it doesnt change my view. I dont think, based on what Ive 
seen, that there is evidence to show that there was a post point of supply impact. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Putting things right
I appreciate that Mr F wants to reject the car. however, under the relevant legislation, Oodle 
is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, then Mr F should 
be allowed to reject the car.
If a repair is uneconomic, given the extent of the damage, then Oodle should allow Mr F to 
reject the car. 
Mr F has continued to make payment for a car which he hasnt been able to use since 
February 2020. These payment should be refunded in either scenario (repair or rejection). 
Its clear that Mr F has been caused significant inconvenience as a result of the issues with 
the car. Oodle should compensate him for this. Mr F has also paid for the car to be 
recovered and for one of the inspections, so these costs should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr F
Refund Mr Fs payments from February 2020 onwards
Refund the cost of recovery and inspection (£405 in total)
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
If the repair is unsuccessful, or uneconomic, Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
Allow Mr F to reject the car
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr FRefund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund Mr Fs payments made since February 2020 plus 8% simple interest from the 
date or payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of recovery and inspection ((£405)
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman