DRN-3977677
The complaint
Mr H has complained that St. Andrews Insurance Plc has not fully paid out on an 
unemployment claim he made on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
In 2021 Mr H made a claim for unemployment stemming from early 2020. St Andrews 
accepted the claim with a start date of 1 March 2020. However, it terminated the claim on 4 
June 2020 as the policy had been cancelled on that date because the direct debit for the 
premiums had been previously cancelled.
Mr H says he cancelled the direct debit because he didnt have enough money to carry on 
paying it and because he was unsure what the payment was for, particularly as he had 
difficulty contacting St. Andrews at that time. 
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was thinking of upholding 
the complaint and inviting the parties to provide any further submissions. St. Andrews 
responded with some comments that I will address below.
Mr H responded to say that he accepted the provisional decision. However, his response 
suggests that he has slightly misunderstood what I was telling St. Andrews to do. So I will 
also address that below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy terms, one of the definitions of End Date is:
the date on which a premium due has remained unpaid by You after allowing a 25 day 
period of grace for premium payment.
The policy also states that:
You must continue to pay Your premiums whilst you are claiming Benefits under this 
Policy
Therefore, St. Andrews was technically correct in cancelling the policy on 4 June 2020. The 
question Ive had to consider is whether it was fair and reasonable for it to assess Mr Hs 
claim in the way it did as a result of the cancellation.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs bank statement for May 2020, showing that the direct debit for the 
policy failed due to insufficient funds. Its clear that Mr H was in serious financial difficulty at 
that point and it makes sense that he would try to rationalise his outgoings by cancelling 
certain payments. 
St. Andrews consulted the underwriter about its position in ending the claim from 4 June 
2020. The underwriter advised that the stance was correct because Mr H had cancelled the 
direct debit but did not make contact. It said that it had followed the correct procedure by 
writing to him and that the onus was on the customer to contact it if there were any issues or 
updates.
However, Mr H did try to make contact at the time, using an email address that he had found 
online. He emailed St. Andrews on 31 May 2020 saying he was unsure of what the policy 
was for but thought that it might be buildings and/or contents insurance. He went on to 
explain his situation and that he had had to stop paying his mortgage and council tax. He 
said that he has stopped his direct debit to St. Andrews but asks for details of the policy and 
proper contact details for St. Andrews, an offer of alternative cheaper insurance and for 
consideration to be given to a payment suspension of at least six months. St. Andrews has 
confirmed that the email address that Mr H used was incorrect. It says he would have 
received a bounce back message telling him the email was undeliverable. Even so, Mr H 
would still have been no further forward in getting the correct contact details for St. 
Andrews.
To complicate matters, Mr H was abroad at the time that he became unemployed. And 
because of the pandemic, he got stuck there due to travel restrictions. This meant that he did 
not receive letters sent to him by St. Andrews in May and June 2020 about being unable to 
collect the premium and then about the policy being cancelled due to non-payment. I 
consider this to be an exceptional circumstance that meant Mr H was unable to contact St. 
Andrews at the appropriate time, which ultimately led to the policy being cancelled.
In response to my provision decision, St. Andrews has provided evidence that it sent Mr H 
an annual review letter in March 2019, which would have made it clear to Mr H that the 
policy was to protect his mortgage repayments. It also contained a phone number for the 
customer services team and advises Mr H to check his personal details to ensure they were 
correct. St. Andrews says it has come to light that Mr H spends around 50-60% of his time 
away from his address. So, if he had told it about his circumstances, it could have arranged 
for another correspondence address to be added to the policy.
Given that Mr H works in the travel industry, its not surprising that he spends a lot of time 
away from home. I think its more likely than not that he would still have thought of his UK 
address as his primary residence. So I dont think it would have occurred to him to provide 
an alternative address for something which, under normal circumstances, would generate 
very little written correspondence.
Overall, Im persuaded by what Mr H has said about having great difficulty in finding up-to-
date contact details for St. Andrews. I wouldnt expect him to take paperwork, such as the 
annual review letter, away with him on work trips, on the off-chance that he might need to 
contact his insurer.
St. Andrews feels that it shouldnt be held responsible for Mr H being unable to get in touch. 
To clarify, its not so much that I hold it responsible for that  although it wasnt ideal that 
searches Mr H carried out only resulted in finding out of date contact details. Its more that I 
would expect St. Andrews to look at the difficulties Mr H experienced, which resulted in the 
policy being cancelled, and to take those circumstances into account when assessing the 
claim.
As stated in my provisional decision, one of the purposes of the policy is to provide a 
policyholder with cover against unemployment. Mr H had acted reasonably in trying to 
contact St. Andrews when he ran out of money in May 2020 as a result of becoming unemployed in February 2020. It wouldnt be fair for his claim to fail simply because he was 
not in a position to pay the premiums once the insured event occurred.
If things had happened as they ideally should have, Mr H would have been able to find the 
correct details for St. Andrews in May 2020 and therefore make successful contact. He 
would then have become aware of the need to maintain his premiums and not allow the 
policy to lapse. Furthermore, if Mr H hadnt been stuck out of the country, he would have 
seen the letters that St. Andrews sent him in May/June 2020 and been able to respond 
accordingly. As it was, by the time that he was able to have any meaningful engagement 
with St. Andrews, it assessed that the policy had been cancelled too long for it to be 
reinstated.
As Ive concluded that exceptional circumstances have come into play here, I would expect 
St. Andrews to look behind the reasons for non-payment of the premiums from May 2020 
onwards, in the interests of treating Mr H fairly. It follows that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr H has said that he accepts the proposed 
settlement of 12 months of mortgage payments, less the premiums. However, to be clear to 
Mr H, I am asking St. Andrews to consider the claim beyond 4 June 2020, rather than 
making a direction for it to pay the claim beyond that point. Thats because Im unaware of 
Mr Hs circumstances after that time. So there may be other reasons, separate to the non-
payment of premiums, why the remaining period of the claim might be declined. So thats for 
St. Andrews to assess.
Putting things right
The assessment of Mr Hs claim should not be hindered by the unpaid premiums. Therefore 
St. Andrews should consider the claim beyond 4 June 2020, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and conditions, as if Mr H had continued to pay the premiums. However, it can deduct 
the amount of unpaid premiums from any claim payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require St. 
Andrews Insurance Plc to assess the remainder of the claim as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman