DRN-1902109
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) acted unfairly when it said 
it would begin legal action against him.
To settle the complaint, Mr M is asking Halifax to reimburse legal costs added to the 
mortgage and to cover the cost of an equity release mortgage his parents took out to pay off 
the mortgage to Halifax.
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint have been summarised in detail by the investigator in 
two letters dated 3 April 2020 and 1 May 2020, so I will not repeat all the details here.
Briefly, Mr M owns a property which is mortgaged to Halifax. At the time of the events 
complained of, the mortgage was formed of two sub-accounts. The first had a balance of just 
under £100,000 and was on an interest-only basis over a term of about ten years. The other 
part of the mortgage, just under £15,000, was on a capital repayment basis over a term of 
about three years. Both parts of the mortgage were on Halifaxs standard variable rate 
(SVR).
I am sorry to note that Mr M experienced some financial difficulties, which led to the 
mortgage falling into arrears. In November 2018 Mr M spoke to Halifax about his financial 
situation. No payment had been made since May 2018. Mr M had already completed an 
income and expenditure form, which showed that the mortgage was unaffordable. 
Halifax told Mr M in November 2018 that it thought legal action was further down the line, 
and it wanted to prevent this. But because of his circumstances  where he wasnt able to 
afford the current monthly payment  it wasnt possible to put a payment arrangement in 
place. It was explained to Mr M that legal action could be started if the account was more 
than three months in arrears and where there was no regular contact from Mr M.
On 3 December 2018 Halifax wrote to Mr M about his arrears, asking him to bring the 
account up to date. At that point the arrears were about £1,400.
Halifax to Mr M on 2 January 2019 giving him 15 days notice of the banks intention to begin 
legal action. On 30 January 2019 Halifax wrote to Mr M to say that it was about to start legal 
action. The bank wrote again on 4 February 2019 explaining that legal action may impact 
Mr Ms credit file and that he would be responsible for paying legal fees. As with other 
correspondence sent to Mr M, he was given details of free debt advisory services.
In February 2019 Mr M complained to Halifax. He said he thought after his phone call with 
Halifax in November 2018 that the bank wasnt going to start legal action. Mr M believed the 
bank was treating him unfairly and that the debt advisory services hed spoken to agreed. 
Mr M was also unhappy that interest was charged on arrears.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to us, where an investigator looked at 
it. By this point Mr Ms family had stepped in to help him out. Mr Ms parents took out an 
equity release mortgage on their own property to enable Mr M to repay his mortgage to 
Halifax. There is a small balance outstanding of £338.54, with a monthly payment of £0.99 
over the remaining 9-year term. The legal charge has not been released due to this 
outstanding amount.
Mr M wanted Halifax to release its charge over his property and reimburse him for all legal 
fees added to his mortgage account. Mr M also explained that the mortgage on his parents 
property will cost approximately £17,000 more than if hed kept his Halifax mortgage for the 
remainder of its term. Mr M wanted Halifax to compensate his parents for the difference in 
cost between their mortgage and Mr Ms mortgage and to pay compensation for distress and 
upset caused to him and his family.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
Halifax had looked at ways to help Mr M, but, given his circumstances, this wasnt possible. 
In the circumstances, the investigator didnt think Halifax had acted unreasonably when it 
instructed its solicitors.
The investigator noted that Mr M also wanted to complain about interest on his mortgage 
balance. Because this hadnt previously been raised with Halifax, the investigator explained 
that Mr M would need to raise this first with the bank.
Dissatisfied with the investigators findings, Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes made some further points, which I summarise below:
his ability to pay the monthly instalment is irrelevant, because he was told by Halifax that 
all possibilities would be discussed before Halifax took legal action;
he was led to believe that there would be discussion following an unspecified length of 
time before legal action was started;
the letter dated 30 January 2019 clearly stated he had until the end of February 2019 to 
contact Halifax to discuss the situation;
this should be enough to award compensation in his favour;
he should have been given the opportunity to enter into a hardship help scheme and 
see out the remaining term of the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I note Mr M has complained about post-redemption interest charged by Halifax. This is 
not an issue I am able to consider, as its not been raised yet with Halifax. If Mr M isnt able 
to resolve this issue with the bank, he will be able to raise a new complaint about it with us. 
I also note Mr M is unhappy that, after it issued a final response letter on this complaint, 
Halifax didnt reply to his later letter. Where Halifax has issued a final response giving 
referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service, the bank isnt obliged to continue the 
correspondence with Mr M.
The crux of this current complaint is that Mr M believes Halifax didnt do enough to help him 
before starting legal action. He also believes he was misled by the bank about its intentions, 
specifically in a phone call in November 2018 and in a letter dated 30 January 2019.
When a customer is in financial difficulty, the starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat 
all customers, but particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to receive payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. UK 
Finance (formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders) also has its own guidelines about what it 
expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of 
MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, extending the mortgage term, 
deferring interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the 
lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
I have no doubt this was a very difficult time for Mr M. He doesnt dispute that he wasnt in a 
position to pay the monthly instalment for his mortgage. Halifax considered what it could do 
to help, but Im satisfied that, given Mr Ms circumstances, none of the forbearance options 
permitted under MCOB were suitable for Mr M. 
The majority of the mortgage was already interest-only. If interest was deferred or arrears 
capitalised, this would result in a higher monthly repayment. Switching Mr M from SVR onto 
a new product at a lower rate of interest (such as a fixed rate) would not be appropriate if 
that mortgage was also unaffordable and came with an early repayment charge. This could 
result in an even higher debt in the event of the bank taking possession.
Mr M has said that his inability to pay the monthly instalment is irrelevant, but I disagree; it 
directly impacted on the assistance Halifax was able to provide. As Mr M wasnt able to 
afford even the current instalment, none of the options Halifax was required to look at under 
MCOB was viable. Nor would a term extension help Mr M, as the majority of the mortgage 
was interest-only so extending the term wouldnt reduce payments.
I can see that Mr M discussed making a lump sum payment of £3,000 to Halifax. But the 
banks position was that Mr M would need to demonstrate that he was able to pay the 
monthly instalment each month, on a regular basis. Also, given Mr Ms circumstances, the 
bank would need to make enquiries about where a lump sum had come from. I dont think 
Halifax was incorrect here; the mortgage contract provides for the contractual payment to be 
made each month, not by lump sums from time to time.
I dont think Mr M was misled by Halifax in November 2018. It was made clear to him that 
repossession was a last resort and that this would be some time away, but that it was 
important to look at what could be done to try to prevent this. There were no affordable 
payment proposals put forward by Mr M. I appreciate Mr M thought hed been given an 
indefinite amount of time by the bank before any action would be taken, I dont think this 
incorrect assumption is based on anything Halifax did or said.
Where a customer is in arrears, Halifax is required to write to the customer advising them of 
the level of arrears and the possibility that this could lead to repossession. Im satisfied 
Halifax did this and that its correspondence was transparent about what might happen.Mr M says that the letter he received on 30 January 2019 said he had until the end of 
February 2019 to contact Halifax about his arrears. Ive read the letter and Im satisfied it 
doesnt say this. 
The letter tells Mr M that the bank is about to take legal action but this can be avoided if he 
contacts Halifax straightaway. The letter also sets out key information about the mortgage, 
explaining that the arrears are now over £2,600, that the next monthly payment of £630 is 
due on 22 February 2019 and that the total balance on the mortgage is just over £114,000. 
The letter goes on to explain that any legal fees will be added to the mortgage balance and 
will attract interest. The letter closes by saying that if Mr M has any questions or needs help 
to contact Halifax on the number provided.
There is nothing in that letter to suggest that Halifax said it wasnt going to take any further 
action until the end of February 2019. In the circumstances, I dont think Halifax acted 
unreasonably or unfairly when it instructed solicitors. No mortgage payments had been 
made since May 2018 (albeit Mr M says that overpayments from previous years meant that 
the mortgage was paid out of these until October 2018). After November 2018 Mr M had no 
way of paying even the monthly instalment, and none of the forbearance options were 
viable.
As a last resort, after giving due regard to its obligations under MCOB and UK Finance 
requirements, Halifax was, I find, entitled to instruct solicitors. I appreciate Mr M was very 
unhappy about this, but he wasnt in a position either to pay the monthly instalment on a 
regular basis, or to reduce the arrears. Allowing the situation to run on indefinitely would 
have made Mr Ms position worse, not better, as the mortgage debt would continue to 
increase. As Ive said above, none of the available forbearance options were viable, given 
Mr Ms circumstances and the fact that most of his mortgage was already interest-only. 
The mortgage terms and conditions allow Halifax to add legal fees to the account. These, as 
well as arrears, incur interest. This is explained in both the mortgage terms and conditions 
and in correspondence from Halifax. Because Im satisfied Halifax didnt act unreasonably 
when it instructed its solicitors, it follows that I dont think Halifax is required to reimburse 
those fees, or any interest on them. They have been added in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage and are payable by Mr M.
I am glad that Mr M was able to find a solution to his mortgage difficulties with the assistance 
of his parents, who raised a mortgage on their home to pay off Mr Ms mortgage (other than 
a small sum still outstanding). Mr M says this mortgage will cost about £17,000 more than 
his Halifax mortgage if he had kept it over the remaining term, and he thinks Halifax should 
pay this extra cost. 
Mr Ms parents arent entitled to claim any compensation from Halifax as this complaint is 
about Mr Ms mortgage, not theirs. It was Mr Ms parents decision to raise a mortgage to 
pay off (most of) Mr Ms Halifax mortgage. Any additional cost of this over the remaining nine 
years of the term  compared with Mr Ms Halifax mortgage over the same period  isnt the 
responsibility of Halifax. 
Im also satisfied that, while a balance remains outstanding to Halifax on the mortgage 
account, the bank isnt required to remove its legal charge.
After giving careful consideration to everything Mr M and Halifax have said, Im unable to 
find that Halifax has acted unreasonably or unfairly. I appreciate Mr M is likely to disagree with me. If he rejects this final decision, Mr M is free to pursue his grievances against Halifax 
in court, should he wish to do so. Mr M may want to take legal advice from a solicitor before 
pursuing any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman