DRN-3115388
The complaint
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
When Mr S first brought his complaint to this service he was seeking rejection of the car, but 
in the meantime Moneybarn has accepted this and so I need not comment further on that 
matter save to say I agree with our investigators comments.
Moneybarn offered to take the car back, refund Mr Ss deposit and his monthly payments. It 
also offered to cover the £100 cost of recovering the car and a refund of £150 towards the 
cost of repairs carried out in July 2020 and £86.95 for a new battery. Prior to this it had paid 
Mr S to sums for compensation of £150 and £250. 
Our investigator identified the following consequential losses incurred by Mr S:
Injector testing and cleaning - £80
Exide Premium Battery + warranty - £86.95
Checks carried out on the car - £150
Vehicle recovery - £100
He thought the battery was a wear and tear item and he suggested Moneybarn pay £330 
plus annual simple interest at 8%. Having reviewed Moneybarns offer it has covered 
recovery cost of £100, the repairs of £150 and the battery of £86.95, but not the injector 
costs. Given the battery cost is broadly equivalent to the injector cost I see no need to 
require Moneybarn to alter its offer. 
Putting things right
 Moneybarn should recompense Mr S as set out below.
My final decision
 Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has already made an offer to take the car back, refund Mr Ss 
deposit and his monthly payments. It also offered to cover the £100 cost of recovering the 
car and a refund of £150 towards the cost of repairs carried out in July 2020 and £86.95 for 
a new battery plus interest to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the car back and pay the sums 
outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman