DRN-2362435
The complaint
Mr C complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) advised him to 
transfer the benefits of three occupational pension schemes to them. But they failed to 
inform him that he would be unable to partially transfer his funds after crystallising the 
benefits. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only included 
a brief summary below.
Between 2016 and 2017 SJP advised Mr C to transfer three different occupational pension 
schemes to them.
The first transfer was recommended in April 2016, the second in October 2016 and the third 
in October 2017.
For each of the transfers SJP produced a suitability report recommending the transfers. The 
suitability report also documented that the funds would be subject to early withdrawal 
charges (EWCs) if more than 7.5% of the funds were withdrawn in the first six years of the 
investment. The EWCs reduced each year from 6% of the funds value in year one to 0% in 
year six. 
Mr C says SJP assured him each of the three tranches of pension he transferred would be 
separated, so his options for the future remained flexible. 
In 2019 Mr C attempted to transfer the first tranche of his pensions away to another pension 
provider (PP) as he says he was unhappy with the performance of his funds. As the first 
tranche had been invested the longest, it had the lowest EWCs.  
Mr C says both he and PP were initially told by SJP this would be possible. However, they 
were later informed that, as Mr Cs benefits in tranches one and two had been crystallised, 
he was unable to partially transfer his funds. 
In October 2019, Mr C complained to SJP. He said he was unhappy with the performance of 
his funds. He was also unhappy with how SJP had dealt with his request to partially transfer 
his funds.    
In their response, SJP provided information to Mr C about the performance of his funds. 
They also said the EWCs had been explained in their suitability letters. They acknowledged 
Mr Cs concerns that he wasnt aware the first two transfers would be part of one crystallised 
pot and therefore couldnt be transferred out separately. 
SJP offered to reduce the EWCs on the third tranche (which was uncrystallised) to match 
those of the first tranche. So, Mr C could transfer out the third tranche instead of the first 
whilst paying the lower EWCs. SJP also offered Mr C £250 for the trouble and upset theyd 
caused.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with SJPs response, so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
said he didnt think SJP had made an error in the funds it had selected for Mr C and we 
wouldnt ordinarily uphold a complaint because the funds had underperformed in comparison 
to its peers. 
Our investigator also said it was reasonable for SJP to omit information about the rules 
regarding partially transferring Mr Cs crystallised benefits. As businesses had to strike a 
balance between providing relevant information and not giving an overwhelming volume of 
details in their letters. He was satisfied the suitability letters contained sufficient information 
about the recommendation and charges involved. He concluded SJPs offer of £250 and 
lowering the EWCs on the third tranche of funds was a reasonable one.   
Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion. He said his funds had originally been 
separated but were merged at a later point. He said SJP knew of his wishes to keep the 
tranches separate but he still wasnt told the changes meant hed be unable to partially 
transfer his funds. 
SJP showed us letters they sent to Mr C in 2018. The letters confirmed Mr Cs two 
crystallised funds moved into a single drawdown fund. SJP said this was largely an 
administration exercise which simplified their customers experience managing their 
investments. 
Our investigator considered these letters, but they didnt change his mind. He said SJP 
wouldnt have foreseen Mr Cs wish to partially transfer his funds in the future. So, he didnt 
think they made an error by not including information about partial transfers in the letter.
As Mr C disagreed with our investigator, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made detailed submissions including a number of points to support their 
arguments. Ive considered all of the submissions carefully. But I wont address each and 
every point when setting out my findings. In keeping with the informal nature of our service 
Ive focused on the matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision. 
Part of Mr Cs concerns relate to the performance of his funds invested with SJP. However, 
performance can be dependent on a number of factors that are outside of the businesses 
control. And Im satisfied SJP made suitable investment recommendations for Mr C when 
providing him with advice to transfer his funds to them.  
Mr C had further concerns when SJP initially told him he was able to transfer the first tranche 
of his pensions to PP. But they later said they were unable to transfer the funds as the 
benefits of the first and second tranche of funds had been crystallised. SJP had also said the 
same to PP. 
SJP werent able to partially transfer Mr Cs funds due to the relevant rules under Section 
169(1D) of the Finance Act 2004. The rules say that when transferring assets held under a 
drawdown fund, the transfer will only be a recognised transfer if all of the sums and assets 
are transferred as part of the transfer. A transfer of only part of the drawdown funds cannot 
be a recognised transfer. I dont think Mr C disputes there are rules SJP must follow. But he says SJP should have 
made him aware of this particular rule when he transferred his funds to them and crystallised 
the benefits. He also says SJP should have made him aware in 2018 when they merged his 
two funds into a single retirement account.
When Mr C transferred his first and second pension to SJP in 2016 and crystallised their 
benefits, SJP wrote suitability reports in which they recommended the transfer. The 
suitability reports clearly highlighted the EWCs that would affect Mr Cs funds if he was to 
withdraw in excess of 7.5% of the funds in a year. I can see the reports didnt tell Mr C that 
once his funds were crystallised, he couldnt complete a partial transfer. However, I dont 
think that was an error on SJPs part. Ill explain why.   
There are many rules and regulations concerning pensions which can also be quite complex. 
Id expect a business to ensure their client is aware of the rules that are likely to affect them. 
But it wouldnt be practical to ensure clients were aware of every rule or regulation that could 
have an effect on their pension if an unforeseen event should occur.
The suitability reports for the first and second tranche of funds both recorded that it was 
Mr Cs objective to invest his funds in the medium term (which was noted as 5-15 years). It 
also recorded that Mr C was employed and had an income from a buy-to-let property 
portfolio. So, it wasnt his intention to make any withdrawals from the fund after the tax-free 
cash was taken and the benefits crystallised.
I think its likely that at the time of the advice in 2016, neither Mr C or SJP would have known 
Mr C would want to complete a partial transfer of his funds to another provider within the six 
years that EWCs applied. Especially as Mr C says the reason for wanting the transfer in 
2019 was due to poor performance of his funds which SJP couldnt have foreseen. I dont 
think Mr C would have transferred his funds to SJP if he thought hed be transferring them 
away within a relatively short amount of time. 
Mr C says it was always one of his objectives to keep his funds separated into three 
tranches so he could remain flexible and transfer them away independently in the future. He 
says now two thirds of his pension is locked into SJP and if he were to transfer it away in the 
future, there would be a period of time when two thirds of his pension would be disinvested 
and sat in cash while the transfer happened. 
While I appreciate Mr Cs concerns, I make my decision based on what I think was most 
likely to have happened given the evidence available. I wasnt in the meetings between Mr C 
and SJP, so I dont know what was said. But SJP produced quite detailed reports recording 
Mr Cs objectives for his pension funds. The reports dont record that Mr C had an objective 
of being able to transfer part of his pension away in the future. Or that he wanted to keep his 
pensions separate. If that was a key objective of Mr Cs Id have expected to see it recorded 
in the suitability report. But it wasnt. So, on balance I think it was reasonable for SJPs 
advice to be based on Mr Cs funds being jointly held in a single fund.
And I think the same can be said for 2018 when SJP wrote to Mr C explaining that his two 
drawdown accounts were merging into one retirement account. I havent seen any evidence 
that at that time Mr C had an objective of keeping his funds separated. Or that he contacted 
SJP with any concerns when he received the letters explaining that his funds would be held 
in one account. 
As Ive said, Id expect SJP to ensure Mr C was aware of the rules likely to affect his 
investments.  But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think SJP could foresee that Mr C 
would want to partially transfer his funds either when EWCs applied or later. So, I think it was reasonable that SJP didnt explain this particular rule to Mr C before he wanted to 
transfer his funds in 2019.
When Mr C and PP first contacted SJP they were told it would be possible to transfer the 
first tranche of Mr Cs funds away, subject to EWCs. But Mr C and PP should have been 
told it simply wasnt possible to partially transfer Mr Cs crystallised funds. So I think the error 
SJP made here was giving Mr C an expectation that he could transfer part of his funds to 
another provider when he couldnt.
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr C back into the position he would likely be 
in, had it not been for SJPs error.
Its difficult to be sure what someone would have done if the correct information had been 
given. But I havent seen any evidence which suggests Mr C would have transferred both the 
first and second tranches of his pension if hed been told that was his only option earlier than 
he was. I say that because when Mr C was told the correct information, he didnt go ahead 
with a transfer. So, I think on balance, Mr C would have kept his funds with SJP at least until 
the EWCs had reduced or no longer applied. Therefore, Mr C hasnt suffered a financial loss 
but he still had a loss in expectation of what was possible with his funds. 
SJP have offered Mr C £250 for the trouble and upset theyd caused him. I appreciate it 
must have been upsetting for Mr C to be told (on more than one occasion) that SJP were 
able to partially transfer his funds when they couldnt. However, SJP did eventually give 
Mr C the correct information. I think £250 fairly recognises the upset and inconvenience 
Mr C was caused by having to chase SJP for the correct information.
While SJP were satisfied they made Mr C aware of the charges that affected his funds, they 
acknowledged he hadnt been told he couldnt partially transfer his funds. But as Ive said, I 
dont think that was unreasonable. SJP have offered to reduce the EWCs from the third 
tranche of funds (which can be transferred away in their own right) to the same level as the 
first tranche of funds. That means Mr C is able to at least achieve his objective of 
transferring a third of his funds away from SJP at the same cost as the first tranche. This 
isnt something the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account allow for but SJP say this offer is 
still open to Mr C. So, he should contact SJP if he wishes to take them up on their offer. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but in all the circumstances of this case, I 
think SJPs offer of redress was fair. So, I wont ask them to do anything more. 
My final decision
Im aware that St. James Place Wealth Management Plc have made an offer to pay Mr C 
£250 for the upset and inconvenience the misinformation they gave him caused. I conclude 
that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this complaint. St. James 
Place Wealth Management Plc should now pay Mr C £250 if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman