DRN-3076129
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) wouldnt undertake a repair under his home 
emergency policy when he lost his electricity supply.
References in this decision to AWP includes its agents and contractors.
What happened
Mr Ms electricity supply failed in his property at around 11.45pm on 9 August 2020. He 
phoned AWP who told him that someone would be with him within four hours to take a look. 
When no one had turned up by 06.02am, he phoned AWP again to be told the engineer was 
ill. An engineer eventually arrived at 09.00am.
The engineer did some checks on the electricity board and repaired a socket. He then told 
Mr M that he needed to order some parts and the problem couldnt be fixed straight away. 
Mr M says he didnt look at the boiler.
On 10 August, Mr M received a message from AWP which advised him that further works to 
deal with his electrical issue had been approved, parts had been ordered, and it was now 
waiting  for a return appointment from the engineer. It would contact him again when the 
parts were available.  On receiving this message, Mr M asked AWP when he could expect 
another visit as he needed to leave the property but didnt want to miss the engineer. AWP 
responded to say that it would need to hear from the trades first.  
On 11 August Mr M received a message from AWP which informed him that the trades had 
advised that the repair was not something as simple as replacing a plug and that some re-
wiring was required. As he didnt receive any further message from AWP, Mr M contacted it 
again on 14 August to be told again that work had been approved and someone would be 
contacting him to arrange a time. Mr M didnt receive another call until 18 August when AWP 
told him that the necessary work wasnt covered by his home emergency policy as it 
involved re-wiring, and a temporary fix wasnt possible. It also said that the need for re-wiring 
was a maintenance issue, and maintenance issues arent covered by his policy. 
Mr Ms complaint is that AWP told him twice that his claim was approved before then 
rejecting it some eight days later. He also argues that that re-wiring is not expressly 
excluded by his policy, and that there is no term which states that any fix undertaken by 
AWP needs to be a temporary one. 
Mr M had the necessary work undertaken by another engineer at a cost of £576.50. The 
claim limit under his policy is £1,000. Mr M also paid for another engineer to provide a 
Domestic Electrical Installation Condition report, and Mr Ms electrical system was 
assessed to be Generally in good condition for its age (20 years) and Satisfactory. Mr M 
says this refutes any suggestion that there was a maintenance issue with his electrics.
Mr M has also complained that because of the delay in fixing his electricity failure, his boiler 
was damaged and he had to pay £384 to have this repaired - £120 for the cost of the repair 
and £264 as a same day call out charge.
Mr M wants AWP to reimburse him the £576.50 he had to pay to have his electricity supply 
restored, £384 to have his boiler repaired, £19 for an extension lead, and £44.94 for petrol 
for him to drive to and from the property - a total of £1,024.44. He says he also had to spend 
nine hours without electricity or heating whilst waiting for an engineer which included having 
to sit in his car so he could keep his mobile phone charged in case AWP called him. He also 
says he had to chase AWP every step of the way involving five phone calls. He also wants 
AWP to pay him the £100 compensation it offered.
AWP says that Mr M wasnt covered under his Home Emergency policy as the electrics in 
the property needed to be re-wired, and he was referred to his home insurers. It also stated 
that a temporary repair couldnt be carried out. It acknowledged that Mr M was dissatisfied 
with the service hed received and the time taken for it to respond to him and offered him 
£100 as a goodwill gesture.
As Mr M wasnt satisfied with AWPs response to his complaint, he brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that it would be fair for AWP to reimburse to him the £576.50 he 
had to pay to restore his electricity, £19 for an extension lead, and £100 compensation for 
the disruption and inconvenience he experienced. She didnt consider that it would be 
reasonable to require AWP to reimburse the other costs claimed by Mr M.
Our investigator issued her view to Mr M and AWP on 25 August 2021. Despite chasers on 8 
September and 15 September, AWP has not provided any response. Mr Ms complaint has 
therefore been passed to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to partly uphold Mr Ms complaint. Having considered the view of our investigator, I 
agree with her assessment of this complaint and of the recommendation she has made. In 
summary:
I agree that the service that Mr M received from AWP was below the standard that he 
was entitled to expect from a home emergency insurer. His property was left without 
electricity for an unreasonably long time, he had to repeatedly chase AWP for 
information about the progress of his claim, he was given misinformation about the 
acceptance of his claim, and he was caused considerable inconvenience.
He was misled by AWP who, having told him twice that his repair had been 
authorized, then said it wasnt covered.
Mr Ms policy doesnt contain any exclusion for re-wiring, and it appears that only 
partial re-wiring was required by Mr Ms own electrician to restore his electricity. Nor 
does the policy say that only temporary repairs will be undertaken.
Mr M hasnt provided any supporting evidence from his plumber of any connection 
between the repair that was needed to his boiler and the electrical failure.
Theres insufficient evidence from Mr M that the travel costs that he would 
necessarily have incurred in visiting the property were increased as a direct result of 
the service failures by AWP.
I consider that £100 compensation for Mr Ms inconvenience is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.Im therefor going to require AWP to reimburse to Mr M the sum he had to pay his own 
electrician and the cost of the extension lead, and to pay him the £100 compensation it 
originally offered him.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr M the sum of £576.50 as reimbursement for the repair cost 
he incurred and £19 for an extension lead  a total of £595.50.
I require AWP P&C to pay interest on the sum of £595.50 at the simple rate of 8% a year 
from the date Mr M made his claim to the date payment is made to him.
If AWP P&C considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
I also require AWP P&C to pay Mr M compensation of £100.00 if this hasnt already been 
paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman