DRN-2882632
complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2002. Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. 
Mrs Hs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear Mrs H didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take it. I say 
this because Mrs H hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made clear. Also, 
her card application form had a separate section for the PPI with a space for her to sign 
if she wanted the cover. Mrs H signed this space, separately from signing for the card 
itself, and nothing by the space or elsewhere on form said Mrs H had to take the PPI or 
had to sign the space for the cover if she didnt want it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H - so it didnt have to check the PPI was right or 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she 
could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover  and it 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. The benefit wouldve been paid on top of Mrs Hs 
work sick pay and for longer, and it looks like this couldve helped Mrs H. 
Mrs H couldnt claim if she missed work due to her ongoing health condition or the health 
issue shed had an operation for over 15 years earlier. But having taken into account all 
shes told us about these, what I have makes me think these issues were either resolved 
or controlled by treatment by the time of the sale. So Im not persuaded it wouldve 
changed Mrs Hs decision to take the cover if shed known more about how the policy 
excluded claims related to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Overall it seems like the cover couldve still been useful for Mrs H if something went 
wrong. Because of this, I dont think she wouldve declined the cover had AXA done 
anything more.
The policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions. But in light of Mrs Hs circumstances at the sale, and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her, as Ive noted. 
So I think she wouldve still thought she had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mrs H wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its 
likely she thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided her a useful benefit at a 
difficult time given her circumstances. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve 
taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies 
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should 
have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think I 
should uphold this complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2021. 
Richard SheridanOmbudsman