DRN-3260771
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc blocked and closed her account 
without providing an explanation. She would like compensation. Mrs S is represented by 
Mr S.
What happened
Mrs S had an account with RBS. In March 2021 RBS blocked her account in order to carry 
out a review. Following the review on 24 March 2021 RBS wrote to Mrs S giving her 60 days 
notice of closure of her account. Because RBS blocked her account, she was unable to 
access the funds held in it. Mrs S told us she was unable to make essential food and bill 
payments and her salary couldnt be paid into her account.
Mrs S wanted to know the reason for the review and closure of her account. She also 
wanted substantial compensation for the distress and inconvenience of not having access to 
her funds.
Mrs S complained to our service. We contacted RBS who didnt uphold her complaint. RBS 
made an offer of £100 compensation in December 2021. Mrs S rejected the offer.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said RBS were entitled to review and 
close the account. RBS had given Mrs S 60 days notice of closure, so he didnt think they 
had acted unfairly. He said he wouldnt be asking RBS to increase the offer of 
compensation.
Mrs S was unhappy with the investigators view.  She said she wanted to know the reason 
for RBS blocking the account, and not giving a reason was unacceptable. She also wanted 
to know the specific reasons why the account was reviewed. She also said £100 was not an 
acceptable level of compensation given the issues she had and the stress being without 
funds had caused her. Mrs S also mentioned through her representative Mr S that RBS were 
a racist organisation that closed the accounts of non-white people. 
Mr S has also made comments regarding the FCS being funded by the banks and therefore 
considers them as not impartial.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Ss account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied RBS were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mrs Ss account. 
Ive already said that RBS has procedures it must follow to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im satisfied this is what it was doing when it reviewed Mrs Ss 
account. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
RBS proceeded to close the account. A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer 
just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, 
it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive considered whether RBS acted fairly in closing Mrs Ss account. Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of her account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case RBS closed Mrs Ss 
accounts giving her two months notice. But because of the continuing block on the account 
for RBS to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate 
closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that the bank 
has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the accounts as its already done. 
I am also satisfied that RBS let Mrs S know of their decision to close the account- they sent 
her a letter dated 24 March 2021. 
Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied RBS acted fairly and applied their terms 
correctly when they decided to close the account. It follows I wont be asking RBS to do 
anything else.
Reasons for block and closure
Mr S has said he wants to know the reasons why RBS closed Mrs Ss account. Whilst Mrs S 
may have expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. RBS isnt required to 
give her a specific reason. And I can understand Mr Ss frustration that he hasnt been 
provided a detailed explanation. But as the investigator has explained, RBS is under no 
obligation to provide this information to him, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say 
RBS have done anything wrong by not giving Mrs S this information. 
Regulations applicable
I appreciate Mr S has asked for the specific legislation that RBS relied upon to close Mrs Ss 
account. The regulator sets regulations which banks must comply with  and most of the 
legislations Mr S has referred to will be covered by this. Banks are required to comply with a 
wide range of law and regulation, including the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) 
Rulebook, the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook and various pieces of primary and 
secondary legislations. Most of these regulatory requirements applies to all UK banks and 
RBS is subject to these legal and regulatory requirements.
While these regulations are in place, the specific section which RBS would have relied on 
when closing Mrs Ss account is set out in the Terms and Conditions of her account with 
them  rather than a set piece of legislation. Part of the legislations will be ensuring banks 
comply with the Terms and Conditions of their account, especially when monitoring ongoing 
business relationships.The specific terms theyve relied on are stated under sections 12. Its not in our remit to 
review banks processes  we can only check that theyve followed their processes correctly 
and acted fairly. In the circumstances of your complaint, having looked at the evidence 
provided I think they have.
Ultimately, Im satisfied RBS has acted appropriately  and in line with their Terms and 
Conditions when closing Mrs Ss account. But I cant recommend that RBS change its 
processes in any form.
Discrimination
Mr S has said that he thinks the reason Mrs Ss account was blocked and closed was 
because of her race or ethnicity and he thinks Mrs S has been discriminated against. While I 
appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken 
place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide this.
I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr S has said when deciding 
what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so Ive not seen evidence to indicate 
Mrs S was discriminated on the grounds of her race or ethnicity, so I havent found that RBSs 
behaviour was improper.
Impartiality
Mr S has said he doesnt think the FCS is impartial  I think Mr S is referring to the Financial 
Ombudsman when he is making comments about impartiality.
Mr S has said he is concerned that because we are funded by the banks our conclusions are 
biased. Were open and transparent about who pays for the service we provide There is a 
cost to what we do and we charge businesses for the service we provide  but the charge is 
no different whether we uphold the complaint or not. At the time we were set up Parliament 
decided that access to free independent dispute resolution services was essential for public 
confidence in the financial services. And that businesses not their customers should 
therefore meet the costs of resolving complaints  
Mr S is suggesting that how we are funded is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. 
Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider 
what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. 
This is what I have done in this complaint. If Mr S does not agree with our view he does not 
have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision Mrs S is free to continue to 
pursue her concerns by other means should she wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise 
her on how to go about doing that.
Compensation
Mrs S has been offered £100 compensation by RBS which she has rejected. I know that 
Mrs S has said having no access to funds was distressing and having to find another 
account to have her salary paid into was very inconvenient. Having considered the evidence 
I dont think that RBS has done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mrs Ss account, 
so I wont be asking them to pay compensation. 
In summary, I recognise Mrs S feels frustrated and unhappy about the blocking of her 
account and she feels RBS wasnt justified in blocking it and denying her access to her money. I realise Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant say RBS has acted unreasonably and treated Mrs S unfairly when 
it blocked and subsequently closed her account. 
The investigator noted that the bank had offered £100 in compensation. Mrs S has rejected 
the compensation. Ive explained why I dont think it necessary for me to award any more. I 
simply leave it up to Mrs S to decide whether, on reflection, she wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman