DRN-1223189
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs R say Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
Specifically they say they took the policy out on the basis that it would cover the whole 
monthly mortgage payment. But they discovered this wasn't the case when they claimed on 
it.
What happened
Briefly:
In 1998 Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. CBS says 
both things were done at the same time during a branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs R's mortgage payments in the event Mr R was 
made unemployed - the policy was in his sole name. The policy would pay out for up to 
9 months per claim at the outset - it appears this increased to 12 months over time - and it 
cost less than £7 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of at least 
six months' pay. Mr and Mrs R said they had savings of several thousand pounds they 
could've used to make their repayments, and they said Mr R was in good health at the time.
CBS' records show Mr R made a successful claim on the policy around 15 years after taking 
out the policy.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said Mr 
and Mrs R chose to take out the policy; the benefit level was made clear at the time; and 
there was nothing to indicate it was mis-sold.
But they said that because CBS took a high commission and profit share, CBS will pay back 
to Mr and Mrs R some of what they paid for PPI. And in the circumstances this was a fair 
way to settle things.
Because Mr and Mrs R disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs R's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs R's mis-sale complaint and my 
reasons are set out below.did Mr and Mrs R have a choice about PPI? 
did they agree to take it out?
Mr and Mrs R haven't really complained that they didn't have a choice about PPI. And 
looking at the evidence provided by CBS, I can see they completed and signed a separate 
PPI application - they were also given 'Yes' and 'No' options about it in their mortgage 
application. It's also the case that they only took out unemployment cover - not accident and 
sickness cover - indicating they made a choice.
So I'm firstly satisfied that Mr and Mrs R chose to take out PPI.
did CBS advise Mr and Mrs R?
Mr and Mrs R say CBS advised them to take the policy out. CBS says it didn't give advice - it 
was a non-advised sale.
I've not seen anything to support the view that Mr and Mrs R were advised to take the policy 
out - for example there's no evidence that Mr and Mrs R were asked specific questions 
about the circumstances in relation to establishing whether they had a need for PPI; albeit I 
accept CBS had some of their circumstances from the mortgage application.
So CBS didn't have to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. But it did have to 
provide them with enough clear and timely information about the cover, so they could make 
an informed decision about it.
the information
Mr and Mrs R's key complaint is that following the claim they made, they were surprised to 
find the PPI payment was for only part of their monthly mortgage payment - and they had to 
wait for the policy to pay out. They understood and say they were told at the time they took it 
out, that it would cover the whole mortgage payment - it was on this basis they agreed to go 
ahead.
As I referred to above, CBS has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs R's PPI application. Looking 
at this I can see that in the section 'Benefit Details'  the amount of £200 has been 
handwritten next to 'Total Monthly Benefit'.  And Mr R signed the application.
CBS has also provided a copy of Mr and Mrs R's mortgage offer letter. Here I can see Mr 
and Mrs R's mortgage details were set out including their monthly mortgage payment. 
Beneath this the PPI details were also set out including the type of cover, which was 
recorded as 'unemployment only cover'; the amount of cover was recorded as £200; and 
finally the monthly cost was shown.
So I think CBS did make both the amount of cover and the cost clear to Mr and Mrs R at the 
time. I've not seen anything to support what Mr and Mrs R have said about them being led to 
believe the PPI would pay out an amount equal to their mortgage payment. It seems to me 
that Mr and Mrs R chose the amount of £200  - although I can understand why they can't 
now remember this.
I nevertheless accept its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs R overall about the 
PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
For example the available evidence doesn't tell me that Mr and Mrs R were told about the 
excess or waiting period, or that the significant exclusions to and limits on the cover were 
clearly brought to their attention.  But as I found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the policy - and for unemployment 
cover only - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And based on their circumstances 
at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for them - for example Mr R was 
eligible for the cover, and he wasn't affected by the significant exclusions or limits to the 
cover - so it seems like it would have been useful for Mr and Mrs R if something went wrong. 
Also, at less than £7 a month, the cost was not significant and it looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs R off taking out 
the cover. 
Specifically on the point Mr and Mrs R have made about the excess or waiting period - it isn't 
unusual for policies of this type to have a waiting period. Typical waiting periods at the time 
ranged from 30 to 90 days. Mr and Mrs R say that, had they known it wouldn't pay out 
immediately they'd have solely relied on their savings to make their payments instead. But of 
the two possibilities, I'm not persuaded this is more likely than not what they would've done.
I accept Mr and Mrs R were happy to rely on their savings to some extent - I think this is 
likely why they chose a benefit level less than the mortgage payment - the difference 
between the mortgage cost and the PPI benefit would've had to come from somewhere. But 
given the relatively insignificant cost of the policy and the benefit it provided, I'm not 
persuaded they would've acted differently and declined the cover had they understood more.
I still think the policy would've been useful to Mr and Mrs R because it could've helped them 
out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. And it is for these reasons 
that I don't uphold Mr and Mrs R's mis-sale complaint.
This means CBS doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. But 
CBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
 - CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because CBS didn't tell them, that was 
unfair. 
- To put that right, CBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided Mr and Mrs R have not lost out to the extent Coventry 
Building Society has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to them.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman