DRN-4152431
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Nationwide Building Society has treated her unfairly in relation to a 
purchase she made using her Nationwide credit card.
What happened
Mrs E is represented by a relative in her complaint - but for ease of reading, Ill  refer to 
everything as if Mrs E had said it or done it.
Mrs E bought furniture from a third party retailer Ill refer to as R. According to Mrs E within 
a couple of years the tops of the furniture had become discoloured. Mrs E considers that this 
has happened due to a manufacturing fault which makes the furniture not of satisfactory 
quality. She considers that this in turn is a breach of the contract she has with R. Mrs E took 
the matter up with R, but she got nowhere. 
Therefore Mrs E tried a different approach because she now wanted a full refund. Due to the 
type of credit Mrs E used to buy the furniture she potentially has rights, under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 against Nationwide for what she sees as the breach of 
contract on the part of R. Therefore Mrs E  raised a claim against Nationwide under Section 
75.
According to Nationwide Mrs E did not bring her claim to it until four years after she bought 
the furniture. Nationwide told Mrs E it might help with her claim if she were to get an expert 
to examine the furniture to give an opinion about what was wrong with the furniture (if 
anything) and what had likely caused this. It said if her claim succeeded it would pay for this 
experts report. But Mrs E declined to provide an experts report, on the basis that she did 
not know any furniture experts, did not trust recommendations from people she did not know, 
and she did not want a complete stranger coming to her home and potentially giving her 
Covid.
Ultimately Nationwide did not meet Mrs Es claim because it did not agree that there had 
been any breach of contract on the part of R. 
However, Nationwide thought there had been some confusion on its part on one occasion, 
about what her complaint was about. Specifically, it referred to the furniture as a sofa which 
it is not. Therefore, Nationwide sent her £25 to make up for the distress and inconvenience 
this most likely caused her to experience.
Mrs E considers Nationwide acted unfairly in declining her claim and complained about this. 
Further, when she sent it her claim,  she tells us that she told it she was unwell due to a 
serious health condition. Mrs E tells us Nationwide should have taken this on board and 
dealt with her differently as a result, but it did not. Instead it made her jump through hoops.
To put things right Mrs E wants Nationwide to give her a full refund, apologise to her and 
explain how it is going to make sure other customers do not go through the same 
unsatisfactory experience she had.
Dissatisfied, Mrs E complained to our service.
Once Mrs Es complaint was with us Mrs E provided us with further information about her 
health and how it impacted on her ability to bring her claim and make her complaint about 
that claim. For example she said it wouldve helped her if Nationwide had been prepared to 
accept evidence verbally from her rather than asking her to put things in writing.
In the light of what Mrs E told us, we asked Nationwide if at the time Mrs E was making her 
claim had Mrs E had told it about her health and requested that it take this into account when 
dealing with her. Nationwide responded that it had no record of this.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Es complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mrs Es complaint be upheld.
Nationwide accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs E didnt. Ive summarised 
below what Mrs E told us in rejecting the recommendation. 
Mrs E indicated that the photos she sent of the furniture was proof enough, without an 
experts report, that the furniture was not of satisfactory quality. Moreover, Mrs E thought 
once Nationwide had the photos if it did not agree that this demonstrated the furniture was 
not of satisfactory quality it should have given an explanation for what had caused the 
discolouration. In addition, Mrs Es position is that she did not understand how Nationwide 
could dispute her photographic evidence without instructing a furniture expert itself.
Further, Mrs E told us Nationwide handled her claim against it under Section 75 
inappropriately, and that had put her at a disadvantage. For example, she indicated that 
Nationwide asked for the same information on more than one occasion which was 
particularly unfair as she was unwell, and it knew that.
Mrs E also complained about complaint handling. For example she thought Nationwide did 
not tell her about when it has eight weeks to provide a final response to a complaint.
Mrs E asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
In considering what is fair or reasonable, I need to have regard to relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Why I think most likely the furniture was of satisfactory quality
I consider that, amongst other things, Section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the 
CRA) are relevant law in relation to this complaint. I also think a process known as 
chargeback ought to have been considered by Nationwide. Ill talk about Section 75 and the 
CRA first then go on to look briefly at chargeback.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs E has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract against the supplier she can also bring a like claim against Nationwide provided 
certain conditions are met. The CRA implies certain conditions into contracts between consumers and traders, such as 
the contract in this complaint. In particular, the CRA provides that goods sold under such 
contracts must be of satisfactory quality.
The relevant law says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
In order to uphold this complaint point,  I must be satisfied that the furniture was not of 
satisfactory quality, and that this is therefore a breach of contract which I can fairly or 
reasonably hold Nationwide responsible for.
Mrs E and Nationwide disagree fundamentally about whether the furniture was of 
satisfactory quality. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as 
some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I recognise that Mrs E might think that Nationwide made it harder for her than it should have 
done by not simply accepting her photos as proof that the furniture was not of satisfactory 
quality. Also she appears to think that if Nationwide was not going to accept her version of 
events it had to provide its own alternative compelling version of events. I should make it 
clear, that under relevant law,  the onus is not on Nationwide to explain why the furniture is 
discoloured. Neither does it have to call in an expert to substantiate its rejection of her claim. 
Rather the onus is on Mrs E to demonstrate that the furniture is not of satisfactory quality. 
And I dont think that she has. Ill explain why I say this.
There are any number of reasons why the furniture might appear to be discoloured, I cant 
fairly or reasonably discount all these other possibilities and based solely on the photos, 
jump to the conclusion that more likely than not the cause is an inherent fault. I say this 
because I can see from the photos that there appears to be discolouration but what the 
photos dont tell me is  the most likely reason why this is. And in the very particular 
circumstances of this complaint thats the information I need to be able to uphold this 
complaint.
It would have been helpful to have an experts report. Most probably an experts report would  
have indicated the most likely reason for what appears to be discolouration. This in turn 
would have helped me decide if the furniture was or was not of satisfactory quality. Mrs E 
has declined to allow an expert to examine the furniture, thats her choice to make. But it 
does mean I dont have the evidence that I need to uphold her complaint in the very 
individual circumstances of her complaint.
Why I dont think it would have been appropriate for Nationwide to have raised a chargeback
Chargeback is a process which in some circumstances could be a route Nationwide could 
have used to get Mrs E a refund. But in the circumstances of this complaint I dont think a 
chargeback would have been appropriate based on the information Ive seen.
Vulnerability
Mrs E says she was a vulnerable consumer by reason of her health. She tells us she told 
Nationwide this and it did not make appropriate allowances for this. For instance, she would 
have found it helpful if when it was investigating her claim if Nationwide had allowed her to 
provide her evidence verbally. A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. I 
think Mrs E could have been a vulnerable consumer due to her health.
Financial businesses are expected to treat their customers with a level of care that is 
appropriate given the characteristics of the customers themselves. The level of care that is 
appropriate for vulnerable consumers may be different from that for others and firms should 
take particular care to ensure they are treated fairly. 
If I thought that Nationwide had treated Mrs E unfairly as a vulnerable consumer I would ask 
it to take responsibility for this.
Therefore we asked Nationwide what it knew about Mrs Es health and if she asked it to help 
her by, for example, letting her provide information verbally. We also asked it for its records.
Nationwide told us Mrs E did not tell it about her vulnerability due to her health. Nor did she 
tell it that it needed to communicate with her in a particular way to take account of her health.
According to Nationwides records, which Ive gone through carefully and which I have no 
reason to doubt on this point, Mrs E did not tell it about her health condition nor ask it to take 
information from her verbally only. 
In the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Nationwide let Mrs E down 
by not taking her health into account when dealing with her.
How Nationwide dealt with Mrs Es claim under Section 75
In general Ive seen nothing that satisfies me that Nationwide handled Mrs Es claim 
inappropriately.
The thrust of this complaint point seems to be that Nationwide asked for things it did not 
need. However, I dont see it that way. Rather, Nationwide had to establish, what Mrs E had 
bought from R, what Rs stance was and what most likely had gone wrong with the furniture 
and why. Therefore, as far as I can see the information Nationwide asked for was 
reasonable. Amongst other things,  it asked for invoices from R, correspondence with R and 
photos of the furniture. Even if it did ask for some of the same information twice, which I am 
sure could have been tedious to deal with, I dont see how that put Mrs E at a disadvantage.
I dont agree by asking for relevant information Nationwide put Mrs E at a disadvantage 
and/or treated her inappropriately.
Complaint handling
Moreover, Mrs E is dissatisfied that Nationwide did not tell her immediately about the rules 
regarding complaint handling and the relevant deadlines in those rules. 
But firstly, those rules were not relevant at the point Nationwide was looking into her claim. 
They only became relevant once Nationwide had assessed and rejected her claim and she 
complained about this. It was at that point she had a complaint for the purposes of those 
rules.
Secondly, since Mrs Es complaint has been with us the focus of her complaint has turned 
more and more to her dissatisfaction about the way Nationwide has dealt with her complaint 
and what Nationwides regulator says about complaint handling in general. For example she 
thought Nationwide should have told her about the circumstances when it has eight weeks to 
give her its final response about a complaint. 
However, I must explain that this isnt something Im able to consider. Our rules only allow us 
to consider complaints about regulated activities. Complaint-handling isnt a regulated 
activity in its own right, nor is it one of the specified non-regulated activities that Im able to 
deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction. Its also not an activity thats ancillary to a 
regulated activity, such as account administration or advice. Therefore, a complaint about 
the way Nationwide dealt with a complaint doesnt fall within the scope of our rules, and so I dont have any legal power to consider Mrs Es dissatisfaction about this aspect of her 
complaint.
For all of these reasons Ive no proper basis to say that Nationwide acted inappropriately. 
Therefore it follows Ive no fair or reasonable grounds for saying it must take any further 
action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman