DRN-3606748
The complaint
Mr B complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr B was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in September 2017. He borrowed £4,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 24 months. Mr B has now repaid this loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed to lend. It called Mr B to 
discuss his income and expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out 
his credit commitments. Those checks suggested Mr B had enough disposable income each 
month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 2 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Mr B 
had made extensive use of the credit available to him and in particular he had a number of 
loans that he was repaying. Mr B had defaults and a CCJ recorded on his file, but I can see 
that these were from a few years before he applied for this loan. I can see that Mr B was 
meeting all of his other credit repayments when they fell due and overall didnt have too 
much that UK Credit ought to have been too concerned about from what was on the search.
I have also listened to a call between the parties, where UK Credit went through the credit 
search and also asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. Mr B told UK Credit that he 
was going to use the loan for debt consolidation and told it what he was going to pay off. I 
think it is reasonable for UK Credit to rely on what he has said here.
Mr B was living at home and told UK Credit that he contributed about £150 to the household. 
I think when I consider how much Mr Bs declared monthly income was, and how little he 
declared to UK Credit he had in essential spend, I think the credit he had taken out was 
affordable for him. The repayment on the remaining credit commitments and the repayment 
for this loan did represent a fairly sizable proportion of his monthly income. But in the 
circumstances, I have already described, on balance, I think the loan was sustainably 
affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr Bs financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate 
and didnt suggest that Mr B was facing any current problems in managing his finances (his 
defaults and CCJ being from a few years previous to this application). I think UK Credit was 
entitled to rely on what Mr B said about his finances, and what he intended to use the loan 
for. And that information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the 
repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to 
Mr B.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it had no further comments. 
Mr B responded through his representatives, and said he took a loan out around the 
same time that shows he was in a cycle of dependency on credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said in his response to my provisional decision that he took out a loan around the 
same time as this one that proves he was in a cycle of dependency on credit. I took this 
into consideration when I looked at Mr Bs complaint, and then issued my provisional 
decision, not upholding it. 
I concluded after looking at all documentation provided, that UK Credit carried out 
proportionate checks. And from the information it gathered, I think on balance, the 
repayments for this loan looked affordable for Mr B. I also dont think there was enough 
information gathered that ought to have given UK Credit concerns, enough to either take 
further action or not give the loan to Mr B. And after receiving comments from both the 
parties, I dont see any reasons to change my findings. 
I know this will be a disappointment for Mr B and I acknowledge the comments he has 
made, but on this occasion, I am not persuaded to change the outcome of his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman