DRN-3543025
The complaint
Mr P complained that his claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy with 
Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr P made a claim to Fairmead under his policy when he noticed water leaking through his 
roof and into one of his bedrooms. The leak followed on from a period of heavy rainfall. 
Fairmead appointed a building specialist to review and validate the damage. The specialist 
said, We inspected the roof with our binoculars from ground level and the loft and could not 
see any visible damage to the roof.
Fairmead declined the claim due to an exclusion for wear and tear on the policy, it said 
based on the evidence available, it is clear your roof is suffering from general wear and tear. 
It appears the bad weather has simply highlighted the need for maintenance to be carried 
out. Pictures taken at the inspection show areas of missing mortar, along with moss growing, 
these are both signs of general wear and tear.
Mr P was unhappy as he felt Fairmead shouldve a carried out a more thorough inspection of 
his roof and he thought it should cover the costs for repairing the damage following the leak.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was evidence to 
show a storm was the main cause of the leak and he thought Fairmead had been 
reasonable in relying on the evidence provided by a specialist to reach its conclusions. Mr P 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
The policy defines a storm as wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph/ 75kmh or torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm/one inch per hour. I think this is a reasonable definition for 
a storm and is consistent with what I would expect in the industry. 
Using resources our service has access to, I have reviewed the weather conditions in the 
vicinity of Mr Ps property on the date he said the leak occurred. For thoroughness, Ive also 
reviewed each day of the previous week. The maximum gust of wind recorded is 28 mph 
and the maximum rainfall is 6.4 mm in an hour.
Therefore, I dont think the weather conditions were consistent with the policy definition for a 
storm.
Therefore, my answer to this question is no, so there is no need to consider the other 
questions. The threshold for storm conditions havent been met, so unfortunately Mr Ps 
claim does not meet the criteria required for the storm related damage. To make a claim, Mr 
P must show he has a valid claim against the perils set out in the policy.
I have checked the policy and I cant see any other area where Mr P is able to claim for his 
damage. Therefore, I think its reasonable that Fairmead has concluded that wear and tear is 
the most likely cause of the damage. This is because there was not a storm. There is no 
other obvious cause of the damage that Mr P would be able to claim for under his policy. 
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman