DRN-2563476
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy with AXA in August 2020. He told AXA he had 
three years worth of no claims discount (NCD), and AXA accepted the cover on this 
basis.
AXA asked Mr M to provide evidence of his NCD. AXA reviewed Mr Ms evidence 
and could only see 1 years NCD. AXA told Mr M that he needed a minimum of 2 
years NCD to insure his car and cancelled his policy as it couldnt offer any 
alternative cover.
Mr M wasnt happy about this and complained to our service directly.
AXA said it had cancelled Mr Ms policy because his car fell under an underwriting 
segment which required 2 years NCD to be able to cover. It said it had given Mr M an 
opportunity to evidence his 3 years NCD and told him the policy would be cancelled if 
he wasnt able to show this. So it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M didnt agree and asked our investigator to look into the matter.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they were satisfied AXA had given Mr M a fair opportunity to provide proof 
of his NCD. And they were satisfied AXA had shown it couldnt offer any other cover 
to Mr M in the circumstances, so it was reasonable for it to cancel the policy.
Mr M doesnt agree. He says AXA cancelled his policy in retaliation to the fact he 
cancelled a previous policy with them
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Ive seen Mr Ms statement of fact from when he took out the policy. And I can see 
hes clearly stated he had 3 years NCD. So the onus was on Mr M to show he had 
this. And if he couldnt, then I need to be satisfied AXA made reasonable enquiries 
before taking further action.
I can see AXA chased Mr M a number of times soon after the policy started for proof 
of his NCD. I can see it used a variety of channels including texts, emails, and letters. 
And I can also see it told Mr M what evidence it needed to see when he called up to 
question the letter he received. So overall, I think AXA made it clear what types of 
evidence it needed to validate Mr Ms NCD. And I think the letter in particular made it 
clear what would happen should Mr M be unable to provide this information. 
Mr M says AXA should have already had his NCD information because he had 
another policy with them before this one. I understand the point Mr M is trying to 
make here, but ultimately this policy was for a different vehicle and a new contract of 
insurance. So it was reasonable for AXA to make enquiries as to his NCD. I also note 
that it appears Mr Ms previous policy was cancelled before a year, so it wouldnt 
have counted towards his overall NCD total.
Ive looked at the comments from the underwriter and their supporting evidence to 
see if AXA cancelled the policy fairly. And from what Ive seen its clear that the car 
Mr M wanted to insure required a NCD of 2 years or more. And there arent any other 
options for cover available here. So Im satisfied AXA was left with no other option 
but to cancel the policy as it was unable to provide a quote to Mr M for 1 years NCD.
Mr M says AXA cancelled his policy in retaliation to him cancelling his previous 
policy. I do understand that this matter has frustrated him, but Ive not seen anything 
to show this was the case, or that he has more than 2 years NCD as he claims. 
Instead, I can see AXA offered Mr M an extension to try and provide proof of his NCD 
and gave him fair notice the policy would be cancelled. I think this was reasonable.
I find that AXA has acted appropriately by using a fair and reasonable remedy in the 
circumstances. So I wont require it to do anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman