DRN-2354052
The complaint
Mr Q complains that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim for storm damage to his roof.
What happened
Mr Q has a home insurance policy with QIC Europe Ltd, which covers his buildings and 
contents.
He made a claim in December 2019 after a water leak through his roof caused damage to 
his home. Mr Q believes the damage to his roof  and the subsequent leak  were caused 
by a storm.
QIC have settled Mr Qs claim for the costs of repairs to the inside of his home, giving him a 
cash settlement of over £2,000. They agreed this was covered under the accidental damage 
section of Mr Qs policy.
Mr Q is unhappy QIC declined his claim for repairs to the roof itself. They told him the 
damage was gradual, or wear and tear, and wasnt caused primarily by the storm  which 
simply highlighted existing, underlying problems with the roof.
Mr Q complained to QIC. And when they maintained their position, he brought his complaint 
to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think QIC did anything wrong.
Mr Q disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute her that Mr Qs policy covers storm damage, or that theres an exclusion 
for damage which happens gradually. Theres also a general condition requiring the 
policyholder to maintain their home in a good state of repair.
Theres also no dispute that there was a storm the day before Mr Q made his claim.
The only real issue is whether the storm was the primary cause of the damage to the roof  
and the leak of rainwater into Mr Qs property  or whether there was pre-existing damage to 
Mr Qs roof which the storm simply served to highlight.
QIC sent a surveyor to inspect Mr Qs home in late December 2019. He concluded that there 
were problems with Mr Qs roof which werent caused by the storm. He identified a problem 
with the mortar at the roof ridge. And he noticed a broken tile.
Mr Q wasnt happy with the inspection. He says the surveyor should have got on the roof  
rather than use a camera on a pole. He thinks the surveyor should have gone into his loft to 
see the damage from inside. And he says there was another broken tile which the surveyor 
missed.
He also says he was told when he bought the house six years previously that the property 
had a new roof installed less than a year before he bought it.
Mr Q hasnt provided any evidence that the roof was in fact new in the year before he bought 
the house. In any case, theres no real reason to question the surveyors report, whatever 
the methodology he employed  which is not unusual in this kind of claim. There are clear 
photographs of the roof  and the surveyor has pointed out what these show.
Mr Q says he had the roof ridge repaired, but there was a further leak just afterwards. I dont 
have any reason to doubt that, but the surveyor also picked up the broken tile  the damage 
to which isnt consistent with storm damage. And Mr Q himself says there was a further 
broken tile which was missed.
On balance, Im satisfied it was reasonable for QIC to conclude  on the basis of the 
surveyors report  that the issues with Mr Qs roof werent caused by the storm but were 
underlying and due to gradual damage. And so, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for them to 
decline the claim for the cost of the roof repairs.
I also note that QIC have dealt sympathetically and reasonably with the accidental damage 
claim and have paid for the repairs to the inside of the house. 
If Mr Q now wants to provide expert evidence about what the surveyors photographs show, 
or evidence from the contractors who repaired his roof as to what caused the leak, then Im 
sure QIC will consider that information. But as things stand, I dont think their decision to 
decline the claim is unfair or unreasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman