DRN-4212961
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors with an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) transfer she requested from a third party ISA provider.
What happened
Mrs C says that she opened a fixed rate Cash ISA via the Barclays application (app). She 
says the following day, she requested an ISA transfer from a third party ISA she held 
elsewhere. She says she waited for the transfer to take place, but this never happened, so 
she rung Barclays on several occasions asking why this had not been completed. She says 
she was told that the problem wasnt with Barclays, and it had been rejected by the third 
party ISA provider, but when she rang the third party ISA provider, they said it was because 
Barclays had not included the correct information, even though Mrs C says that she entered 
all of the information required on the Barclays app. 
Mrs C says that after many calls, sometimes taking over an hour, the transfer was completed 
43 days after her initial request which meant she had lost out on interest. She said she 
asked Barclays if she would still get the 12 months interest on her transferred ISA and they 
told her that the interest was only payable for the remaining term. Mrs C made a complaint to 
Barclays, who credited Mrs C with £55 for the level of service they provided her, but they 
said there was no Barclays error with how they handled the transfer. Mrs C brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He said that the option for a roll number 
was part of the application, however, it was not input. Based on this, he couldnt agree 
Barclays made any errors in the funds not being transferred. He said Barclays wrote to Mrs 
C when they were aware the transfer had been rejected to explain why, and when Mrs C 
supplied the roll number, the transfer was successfully completed. 
Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that she understood what our investigator had said if she entered an 
account number instead of a roll number, however, she would have still expected Barclays to 
notify her of this and ask her for the correct information within a couple of days. Mrs C said 
that Barclays had not contacted her, so she thought the transfer of the ISA funds was taking 
place and when she contacted them after a couple of weeks, they still did not advise her that 
the information was incorrect, which resulted in her losing a lot of interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I must make Mrs C aware that as part of this complaint I can only look into the actions of 
Barclays only, and not the third party ISA provider, as Mrs Cs complaint is about Barclays. 
But Mrs C may be able to complain to her third party ISA provider if she feels they have let 
her down over what happened here. If she is not satisfied with their response, then she may 
be able to bring a complaint about her third party ISA provider to our service. 
From the screenshot that Mrs C sent our service, this does not contain the roll number of her 
third party ISA. This is different to the account number, and I can see from her transfer 
request, that no roll number was entered onto the transfer request. Ive considered what Mrs 
C has said about Barclays contacting her to notify her that all of the information wasnt on 
the request. But Im not persuaded that it would be obvious to Barclays that all of the 
information wasnt on the request.
I say this because different providers require different information regarding ISA transfer 
requests. Not all providers require a roll number as part of the transfer process as some 
providers ISAs wont have a roll number attached to them. The onus would be on the 
customer to input the required information. And it would not be proportionate for Barclays to 
know how each ISA provider operates and whether they require a roll number or not. 
Ive considered what Mrs C has said about her ringing Barclays up and they didnt tell her 
information was missing. But looking at the system notes, it appears that Mrs C rung 
Barclays before the third party had informed them the reason why the transfer was rejected. 
It appears from the system notes that Barclays were only aware on 24 February 2023 that 
the third party building society had rejected the transfer as they werent able to locate Mrs C 
from the information she provided. Barclays sent Mrs C a letter about the rejection, and they 
also diarised this for five working days, albeit Mrs C contacted them before this time elapsed. 
Mrs C provided her roll number and the transfer successfully completed. But Im unable to 
hold Barclays responsible for what happened here. I say this based on them giving the third 
party the information that Mrs C had given Barclays for the transfer to complete. And they 
werent aware the reason why the transfer rejected when Mrs C rung them on 22 February 
2023, as they only found this out two days later  and wrote to her on the same day. So Im 
not persuaded they were responsible for Mrs C losing out on interest here. 
Barclays have acknowledged there were service issues though. And Mrs C has detailed how 
long some of these calls took. So while I cant fairly say that Barclays were responsible for 
what happened with the transfer rejecting, Im persuaded the customer service that Mrs C 
received could have been better. Im satisfied that Barclays acknowledge this also as they 
paid Mrs C a total of £55 compensation for this. And this is in line with our awards for 
compensation for what happened here. So it follows I dont require Barclays to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman