DRN-4177445
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from Lendable Ltd trading as Autollend 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Lendable. At the point of supply the car was around 8 years old and had covered 
around 75,407 miles.
Soon after getting the car, Mr W experienced issues with the aux function and the USB port 
not working. He raised a complaint with Autolend and said he was having difficulties getting 
the supplying dealer to communicate with him. Autolend contacted the broker so it could 
investigate the issues and liaise with the dealership.
Mr W experienced further issues with the car which he reported to Autolend. He said the 
door had become difficult to close, the window was difficult to open and close, and a 
message had appeared on the dashboard saying that there was a drivetrain problem.
Autolend received confirmation from the dealership that it was happy to carry out repairs. It 
issued a final response in which it upheld Mr Ws complaint. It said the car would be 
collected and repaired and offered Mr W compensation of £50 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
The car was returned to the dealership for repairs in January 2023. A communication fault 
caused by a disconnected sensor was repaired and the window motor was repaired. The car 
was returned to Mr W in March 2023.
Mr W contacted Autolend in March 2023 and said there was still an issue with the car. He 
said that hed only driven a short distance on the day the car was returned to him following 
the repairs and the drivetrain message had appeared on the dashboard again. 
Autolend arranged an independent inspection of the car in April 2023. The report stated that 
the drive train message was illuminated and that there were fault codes which suggested 
that the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was blocked. The report concluded that the issues 
were due to Mr Ws use of the car. It said the car might require a forced regeneration, a DPF 
flush or a DPF replacement.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied because Mr W had reported the drivetrain message in 
December 2022 which was within the first 6 months of the point of supply. The investigator 
said that the garage who repaired the car in February 2023 stated that the issue had been 
caused by a disconnected sensor which had caused the DPF not to regenerate. The 
investigator said that although the sensor had been reconnected this hadnt resolved the 
issue. The investigator said that he disagreed with the conclusion in the independent report 
that the blocked DPF had been caused by Mr Ws use of the car and said it was more likely 
that the previous fault hadnt been successfully repaired. The investigator said that Mr W 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Autolend didnt agree. It said it accepted that the sensor wasnt connected and that this had 
caused the DPF not to regenerate which in turn had caused the drivetrain message to be 
displayed. Autolend said that Mr W had been made aware that in order for the DPF to 
regenerate, the car would need to be driven at the recommended speed and distance to 
start the regeneration process. Autolend said that the sensor had been successfully repaired 
and that the blocked DPF had occurred because Mr W hadnt driven the car on a long 
enough journey for a regeneration to happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
The legislation says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition, 
as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr W was around 8 years old and had covered around 75,400 miles. So 
its reasonable to assume that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear and that 
it might require repairs and maintenance sooner than say, a brand new car.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first 6 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful then the consumer can ask to 
reject the car.
Where a fault occurs outside of the first 6 months of the point of supply, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues with the car. Based on what Ive seen, 
Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because the independent inspection 
report found that the drive train message was illuminated and that there were fault codes 
which suggested that the DPF was blocked. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, 
and/or whether the fault was as a result of an unsuccessful repair or driver style.
The communications between Autolend and the supplying dealer in February 2023 show 
that the drivetrain error message was due to the DPF not regenerating due to a sensor being 
disconnected.
The drivetrain message appeared in December 2022 which was within the first 6 months of 
the point of supply. So its assumed (under the relevant legislation) that the fault was present 
or developing at the point of supply. The supplying dealer had the car in for repairs from January 2023  March 2023 and 
diagnosed the sensor fault and the resulting issues with the lack of regeneration of the DPF. 
The supplying dealer reconnected the sensor and (on Autolends case) told Mr W that he 
would need to drive the car to start the regeneration process. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Mr W was told to drive the car in a certain way following the repairs. And this 
version of events also begs the question as to why the supplying dealership didnt 
regenerate the DPF when it carried out the repairs, because it mustve been aware that the 
DPF needed regenerating.
Ive read and considered the independent inspection report. This confirms that the DPF was 
blocked. The engineer stated that this was caused by Mr Ws use of the car for short 
journeys which didnt allow regeneration to take place. It isnt clear how the engineer 
obtained information about Mr Ws use of the car and whether its correct that Mr W only 
uses the car for short journeys. But even if the engineer was correct about Mr Ws use of the 
car, I dont think his conclusions about the cause of the DPF being blocked are reliable. I say 
this because the engineer doesnt comment on the previous disconnected sensor and 
consequent failure of the DPF to regenerate all the time the sensor was disconnected. The 
engineer hasnt addressed the issue of whether the DPF couldve been blocked due to the 
failure to regenerate previously. Its not clear from the report whether the engineer was made 
aware of the previous issue with the sensor and the attempt at repair in February 2023.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the fault identified by the independent 
report was due to driver style. I think its more likely that the disconnected sensor caused an 
issue with the DPF due to a failure to regenerate and that the repairs addressed the issue 
with sensor but not the DPF. Its not disputed by Autolend that Mr Ws car had not 
regenerated in some time as the sensor wasnt connected. Theres no evidence that the 
repairing garage checked the DPF for blockages or made any attempt to regenerate the 
DPF themselves (even though the garage recognised the need to the DPF to regenerate as 
they say they gave Mr W this advice).  
Im of the view that this is a failed repair. Under the relevant legislation Mr W should be 
allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality and why Mr W 
should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr W was able to continue to use the car despite the issues. So I think its fair that he should 
pay to reflect that, whilst at the same time recognising that there were periods of time when 
he was without the use of the car, and where he suffered impaired use.
Its clear that Mr W has been caused inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a car 
which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Hes felt unsafe in the car at times and had to arrange 
collection of the car following the repair attempt. Ive considered the impact of this on Mr W 
and I think its fair to ask Autolend to pay more compensation than the £50 which they have 
already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Lendable Ltd trading as Autolend must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr WRefund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £2000
Refund all payments made by Mr W for the period 30 January 2023 to 18 March 2023
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay a further £200 compensation to Mr W for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman