DRN-2597741
The complaint
Mr T complains about 1825 Financial Planning and Advice Limiteds (1825) management of 
his Self Invested Person Pension (SIPP) fund in the early part of 2020, in the lead up to the 
outbreak of Covid-19. In particular, he complains about 1825s lack of proactive action to 
protect his pension, when it was clear there would be an equity global market crash. He says 
that 1825 left him in a high-risk fund despite widely predicted market crashes, which was not 
best advice. Mr T says this caused him to lose out financially, he puts his loss at around 
£55,000.
Further, Mr T complains that it was inappropriate to change his risk profile in 2019 and for 
his SIPP to be passively managed after this time, rather than actively managed. 
What happened
In September 2018, 1825, Mr Ts adviser, assessed his attitude to risk (ATR) in relation to 
his SIPP investment. He was rated on a scale of 1-10 at 09 in the Low Adventurous 
category (10 being prepared to take the greatest risk). 
Mr T at that point was looking to retire at age 60. Taking account of his personal 
circumstances and that he didnt have a much capacity to absorb losses, coupled with the 
short time to his planned retirement, it was agreed with his adviser that his ATR would be 
recorded at 04  Cautious to Moderate. 
In June 2019, Mr Ts ATR was reassessed because his retirement plans had changed. He 
intended to work longer, until around age 62 to 63 years. His ATR was reassessed using a 
new risk scale of 1-6. The risk questionnaire was completed by Mr T remotely, with no input 
from the adviser. Mr Ts score was in line with previous ATR assessments, he was rated at a 
5  a High risk investor. 1825 say that Mr Ts ATR was discussed with him at length. It says 
that Mr T confirmed he had always been a high-risk taker and his main aim was to enjoy the 
early years of his retirement. 
1825 used a modelling tool showing differences at a retirement age of 60 and 65. Both 
showed his income and assets were insufficient to meet his needs at retirement. The model 
showed that by investing for the medium to long term and taking the higher level of risk, he 
could potentially achieve better long-term growth and his pension fund may last for longer. 
Mr T accepted the risk of large rises and falls in value and that losses may arise on the 
higher risk strategy.
In June 2019, the adviser also wrote recommending Mr Ts SIPP should be switched from a 
model portfolio into a higher risk fund. The reasons for the recommendation were set out in 
the letter, including an explanation of the risks of doing so. Mr T accepted the 
recommendation.
During the early part of 2020, Mr T wrote to his adviser at 1825 a number of times, 
concerned about the impact of the pandemic on his SIPP investment. In March 2020, he told 
his adviser that he had had to take a 40% pay cut and was at risk of redundancy.
In April 2020, as a protective measure, Mr T opted to move to a lower risk fund, assessed as 
being 1 on the scale for ATR.
In April 2020, Mr T received further written advice from 1825. It didnt recommend switching 
to a lower risk portfolio because his was a medium to long term investment. 
Mr T complained to 1825. He said he had been adamant during the early part of 2020 that 
having a high-risk portfolio was not appropriate in the short term, given the impact of the 
pandemic. He said he was not listened to and 1825 didnt act pro-actively in response to the 
pandemic and down turn in the market.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr T didnt accept our 
investigators opinion and so his case comes to me to issue a decision.
Mr T said our investigator had not understood his complaint. To summarise, he said his 
complaint was about 1825s failure to act proactively and switch his fund into lower risk 
investments in January and February 2021, when Mr T had first approached 1825. He said 
hed initially lost £100,000 on his fund value as a result of 1825s failure to act proactively 
and he had had to take steps himself in April 2020 to mitigate his loss. He said he was also 
told that it would take around 4 weeks to make the switch, when it only took 2-3 days to carry 
out. Mr T said it would have taken even less time if switched to cash. Further he states that 
he was entitled to change his risk profile.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In looking at this complaint, I have looked at the issues Mr T has particularly flagged in his 
response to our investigators view, but also the wider issues raised during the investigation 
of this complaint. I have also listened to telephone calls between Mr T and 1825.Having 
done so, I am not going to uphold Mr Ts complaint, Ill explain why.
ATR & Fund switch 2019
Mr T completed the ATR questionnaire in 2019 without any input from 1825. Based on his 
responses he was assessed as having a high capacity for taking risk. 
Mr T was written to in 2019 with 1825s recommendations. He accepted these 
recommendations and he moved into a higher risk portfolio as a result.
Mr T said 1825s records will also show that there are notes on file advising him not to move 
to a high risk portfolio in 2019.
Based on what I have seen, including a full report setting out 1825s recommendations 
based on his ATR, I cant see that Mr Ts ATR was improperly assessed in 2019 or that he 
was given unsuitable advice to switch funds based on this ATR. I think he was given 
sufficient information to make an informed choice about the amount of risk he wanted to 
take, and agreed to take that level of risk, at that time. So, I do not uphold this aspect of his 
complaint. 
Improper management and adviceMr Ts position is that when circumstances change, customers are entitled to reduce or 
increase their ATR and that 1825 failed to take account of what he was saying about his 
concerns in January and February 2020, merely reconfirming their advice, and leaving him in 
the highest risk portfolio. He said 1825 didnt respond until April 2020. Mr T said the cost of 
moving portfolio wasnt a significant consideration here. 
Ive looked carefully at the messages exchanged between Mr T and his adviser between 25 
January 2020 and April 2020. Ive also listened to some phone calls. I can see that Mr T was 
experiencing difficulties accessing information about his fund, and this led to a number of 
queries about his fund value. 
I can see that 1825 took steps to identify why he couldnt access the information and tried to 
rectify the situation by sending new passwords or giving him different access details.1825 
also acknowledged that it was making a system change, which had caused access issues. 
Given the unprecedented world events at the time, I accept it wasnt helpful that Mr T didnt 
have full access to all the information he wanted about his SIPP, at that time. However, I 
think 1825 responded in a timely and reasonable way given the circumstances prevailing at 
that time.
Ive looked at the emails from January and February 2020. I can see there was a discussion 
about the impact of the pandemic and the general election on fund values. But, I cant see 
that Mr T blatantly indicated, as he suggests, that he wanted to revise his ATR or move into 
a lower risk portfolio. 
In February 2020, the 1825 adviser said that this was potentially a good opportunity to buy 
while the market was on a downturn. A link explaining this stance was included. It said 
this:
While the market reaction has been severe and certainly painful for investors and clients, 
history has shown that epidemics have historically provided good buying opportunities for 
investors with a medium-long term time horizon. The potential for a sharp rebound in 
markets shouldnt be discounted, which would be detrimental for investors that decided to 
sell down their investments to cash during the market turbulence. We always encourage 
clients to take a long- term view during periods of market turbulence
In March 2020, Mr T again queried his fund value and whether his portfolio had been moved 
into cash as a response to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said at this stage he needed to 
withdraw £50,000 from his SIPP to pay off his mortgage, that his pay had been reduced by 
40% and there was a risk he may be made unemployed.1825s response was that fund 
managers were working in the background to manage the downturn and looking for 
opportunities for recovery. 
Although Mr Ts immediate circumstances had started to change, his medium to long term 
pension objectives appeared not to have. So, I cant see that it was incumbent on 1825 to 
advise Mr T to move to a lower risk portfolio given the medium to long term nature of his 
SIPP investment. By April 2020, Mr T indicated he wanted to reduce his risk profile. 1825 
felt this wasnt in line with his medium to long-term objectives. As the markets had dipped, 
the plan was to wait for some recovery before switching to a lower risk fund. Mr T agreed 
to wait until the fund was back around £500,000 and to look then at reducing the 
investment risk of his SIPP fund. He switched out of the fund before it got back to that 
level.
Included in one of the messages from Mr Ts adviser, it said:
What has come from our discussions whilst being a client of 1825 over the years was that you always liked risk and happy to take risk, as you wanted to see the better returns and 
happy with the projected outcomes both positive & negative when we discussed the "risk 
& reward chart" but in reality once the actual fund has dropped you have felt 
uncomfortable within this risk level and now we are looking at potentially reducing the risk 
down.
Having considered the communications between 1825 and Mr T (written and phone), I dont 
find that he was given inappropriate advice based on his stated objectives and recorded 
ATR at the time of events. I think it did begin to emerge by April 2020, that Mr Ts actual risk 
appetite may not have been consistent with what he had previously considered it to be, prior 
to those risks materialising. Also, it seems, the pandemic appeared to be having wider 
implications on his personal circumstances too, factors that were also becoming clearer as 
time went on. I can see, for example, that Mr T mentioned his pay being significantly 
reduced and needing to know the value of his SIPP for a mortgage application he was 
making.
But, overall, I do not consider that 1825 did anything wrong here and so it follows that I do 
not uphold this aspect of Mr Ts complaint either.
Switching into the lower risk fund
Later in April 2020, Mr T took the decision himself to switch into a low risk fund. Mr T 
appeared to take the view that this would be a better move in the short term as he wanted 
to protect his fund value, but that his overall objectives, and level of risk he was prepared 
to take for future growth, remained the same. So, as Ive said, I cant see that Mr Ts 
overall objectives had changed, such that 1825s earlier advice was unsuitable or 
inappropriate.
It was of course open to Mr T not to accept 1825s advice, and to manage his fund in the 
way he considered best, at any point over this period, including by acknowledging his 
change in ATR.
1825 advised against switching to cash or a lower risk fund as it said Mr Ts was a medium 
to long term investment. It strongly advised against trying to time the markets and said in a 
lower risk fund there was less potential for growth and that his pension would be affected 
by the additional charges the lower fund had.
In effect, 1825 said Mr T would be crystallising the loss hed already made in the higher 
risk fund, and if he remained in that higher risk fund it would provide greater opportunity 
for recovery. Further there was no guarantee of the switch bringing better performance.
It follows that as I have not found that the advice 1825 gave Mr T was unsuitable or 
inappropriate for his stated objectives and ATR, and he clearly knew he didnt have to follow 
this advice (having decided in April 2020 not to) that 1825 cannot fairly be held responsible 
for any financial loss that Mr T considers that he has suffered by not switching earlier.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Kim ParsonsOmbudsman