DRN-4222780
The complaint
Mr S complains about how mortgage broker Fluent Money Limited dealt with his application 
to remortgage a Buy To Let (BTL) property that he owns. He said that the mortgage Fluent 
recommended was never suitable, and Fluent caused delays in the application.
What happened
Mr S told us that the fixed interest rate on his existing consumer BTL mortgage was coming
to an end. So he made an online enquiry on 25 March to remortgage, through an online
comparison portal. Mr S was contacted by Fluent, who said he didnt qualify for that product,
but recommended something else from a different lender (who I wont name here). Mr S
applied for this lending through Fluent. He told us hed stressed that speed was of the
essence, as his existing mortgage's fixed rate period was ending at the end of April.
Mr S said he later found out that this was the only lender he met the criteria for, and he
hadnt passed the lending threshold for this one by much.
Mr S said on 31 March his prospective lender had sent some documents to Fluent that he
needed to complete, but they werent sent on to him until 20 April. He said he returned them
the same day, but no one acknowledged receipt until 26 April.
Mr S said he received a second request from the lender, via Fluent, on 6 May, but he later
found out the lender had asked for this information on 20 April, and subsequently chased
this on 26 April and 5 May. Again, Fluent had just not forwarded the request.
Mr S said he was on holiday on 6 May, so had to wait until 13 May to submit the requested
information.
On 25th May he contacted the lender directly and was told his mortgage application had
been declined. He immediately went back to his old lender, and arranged a new mortgage
with it. His new mortgage rate was applied to his account from 26 May.
Mr S said that his complaint was on two points  one that Fluent should have known he
wouldnt receive an offer from this lender, and two that there were excessive delays in
handling his application.
Mr S said Fluent offered him £50 for delays, but that didnt cover the extra hed paid on his
mortgage while it was on his old lenders standard variable rate (SVR) from 1 to 25 May,
inclusive. Mr S said the difference between the two rates worked out as £888.36 per month,
so he had paid around £800 more than the £50 offered. He wanted Fluent to pay that.
Fluents response to Mr Ss complaint said Mr Ss prospective lender asked for documents
on 31 March, which were supplied on 26 April. It noted that Mr S said hed sent these before,
but Fluent said they werent received. Fluent didnt say when this request for documents had
actually been passed on to Mr S. (Hed said it wasnt passed on until 20 April).
Fluent said Mr Ss prospective lender asked for more information on 20 April, and Fluent
accepted it hadnt noticed this request until 5 May 2022. The requested budget planner was
sent to Mr S on 6 May, and on 13 May he told Fluent hed returned it directly to the lender.
Fluent said the lender reviewed this, and contacted it on 24 May 2022 to say Mr Ss
application had failed internal affordability criteria. Mr S found out directly from the lender on
25 May that the application had been declined, but Fluent only noticed this rejection was on
its system on 26 May.
Fluent said it had checked affordability with the prospective lender at the outset, and the
lender was content to lend, although affordability hadnt been passed by much. Fluent said
there were unfortunately no other lenders available to recommend to Mr S.
Fluent didnt think it was wrong to recommend this lender, but it did say that requests for
information from the lender hadnt been passed to Mr S in a timely manner and this did
cause delays. It offered Mr S £50 to say sorry for that.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that its not unusual
for a lender to provide a positive indication that it will lend, then change its mind once fuller
detail is available and the application is underwritten. He couldnt see that Fluent had made
a mistake in recommending this lender, or that it could have been aware of the very specific
criteria which the lender later applied. He didnt think things would have changed if Mr S had
been told that his affordability was borderline.
Our investigator said its usual to get an offer within about six weeks, but Fluent hadnt
guaranteed that. Our investigator said Fluent had operated within its normal timescales, and
there were no excessive delays.
Our investigator didnt accept that Mr S had to pay his old lenders SVR for 26 days because
of the actions of Fluent. He said Mr S could always have remortgaged with his old lender if
hed wanted to. But our investigator did think Fluent caused around two weeks of delays. He
said a payment of £50 was fair for that.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the delay was five weeks, not two. Mr S also said although he
might have been happy to pay the SVR rate to his old lender for a short time before securing
a better deal with a new lender, he wasnt happy that hed ended up on the SVR waiting for
an application which was never going to be successful. Mr S felt that Fluent only accepted
his application as a way to get commission.
Our investigator asked for more information about the timescales and delays in Mr Ss
application, and Mr S replied to draw attention to the request for documents made by the
lender on 31 March, which he didnt get until 20 April, as well as the failure to acknowledge
the documents he returned on 20 April until 26 April.
Ms S still thought that Fluents brokers would have an incentive not to tell him that he didnt
have a good chance of securing the lending, and he said Fluent had sent out misleading
information, including an email titled "Your application is in the bag [Mr S] which it clearly
wasnt. Mr S also thought Fluent had advised him there were a range of lenders he was
eligible for, but then later that there were no others prepared to lend.
Our investigator said he would ask Fluent for more information, and he then did so. In reply,
Fluent made the following points.
On the delay in acknowledging documents, Fluent said although Mr S claimed to have sent
documents on the same day they were requested, they werent received. On 26 April he re-
sent them, suggesting that the original file size might have prevented them being received.Fluent said it did have restrictions on the size of files it could receive, which was part of
ensuring its IT security.
Fluent strongly refuted the suggestion that its brokers were somehow incentivised not to tell
applicants that they didnt have a realistic chance of success.
Fluent said its staff would only recommend products where lender criteria were met. But that
was always only assessed at a high level when the recommendation was made. Fluent still
didnt think it had made a mistake in recommending this lender.
Fluent said it couldnt locate any email which said Mr Ss application was in the bag but it
said it would avoid future use of such phraseology. (Mr S has since sent this email to us.).
Fluent said it had identified a number of lenders that Mr S could be eligible for, but the one it
had recommended was the only one which was suitable for Mr S.
Fluent said it also wanted us to consider that Mr S had only given Fluent about five weeks to
source and complete his mortgage. And this was during a period when all mortgage brokers,
and lenders, were exceptionally busy, due to continual base rate increases by the Bank of
England. Fluent said it would be unfair for brokers like it to bear the brunt of customer anger
which was really a product of the turbulent market Fluent was operating in.
Our investigator then wrote to Mr S again, and said he hadnt changed his mind.
Mr S said if the files he sent on 20 April were too large, he would have expected Fluent to
send an automated response to let him know. And Mr S said that only covered the delay
from 20 April to 26 April. It didnt explain why Fluent waited until 20 April to forward a request
from the lender that it had received on 31 March, some 3 weeks earlier.
Mr S also said these delays did affect the outcome, because they meant he didnt know hed
been turned down until after hed started paying the SVR on his old mortgage. He could
have avoided paying that if hed simply been refused lending by this lender sooner. Mr S
also said if Fluent couldnt process this application in time, it should have told him that.
Mr S also argued that the criteria he failed on, should have been known to Fluent when the
recommendation was first made. And it was at this point that Mr S sent us the disputed
email, saying his application was in the bag. Mr S said this looked like a standard email to
him, although Fluent now said such phraseology should not be used.
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
Before our investigator passed this case to me, he sought some further information from
Fluent. Fluent said it had re-checked its server, and was confident it didnt get the email with
attachments until 26 April 2022. It suggested Mr Ss own email server may have blocked the
email from that end. And on the delay between 31 March, when Mr S said the lender asked
for further information, and the request being passed on to Mr S, which hed said happened
on 20 April, Fluent again blamed this on the market turmoil at the time.
This case then came to me and I reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: A number of issues have been explored in this complaint. But I think that the key issues 
are the two Mr S first identified  whether the recommendation Fluent made was 
suitable for him, and whether Fluent caused delays in his application.
On the first point, Ive seen nothing to suggest to me that Fluent should always have 
known Mr S wouldnt finally be approved for lending by its proposed lender. I dont think 
Fluent can be expected to have such detailed knowledge of exactly how every lender 
will approach its affordability assessments.
Mr S says that if his case was somehow borderline, then he should have been told this. 
But I note that Mr S was warned that there was a concern over affordability. In the 
Advice and Suitability document that Mr S was sent on 30 March 2022, Mr Ss position 
was assessed under a number of heads. The document included this assessment of 
affordability.
Affordability
When considering affordability, we must ensure the loan is manageable for you,
whilst we also consider the potential lenders affordability calculations.
Your affordability is assessed as: Limited
After carefully assessing your affordability we recognised you had limited disposable
income remaining after your general cost of living and mortgage payments. With this
in mind, this only enables us to work with a very limited number of the lenders from
our panel.
So I dont think Fluent had to tell Mr S that he wouldnt be able to get lending, because I
dont think it knew that, or that it ought to have known. And I dont think it failed to alert 
him to concerns over the affordability of the lending he wanted.
On the second point, I think its clear there were delays in this case. Although Fluent 
doesnt accept that it caused any delay between 20 April and 26 April, because it says it 
didnt get the documents Mr S sent, it does appear to accept that it caused the following 
delays -
from 31 March to 20 April (when requests for information werent passed on)
from 20 April to 6 May (again, when requests for information werent passed on)
from 24 to 25 May (when it didnt notice Mr Ss application had been refused  
this was resolved by Mr S contacting the lender).
Fluent blames these delays on the market turmoil at the time. Mr S, not unreasonably, 
has said if this was an issue, then he should have been told about it at the start.
I think Fluent was likely to have been aware of the greatly increasing demands on its 
time by late March 2022, when Mr S started this application. There had by then been 
successive rate increases by the Bank of England. But Fluent didnt tell Mr S that his 
application might take rather longer than usual. And I think that wasnt just an omission 
on Fluents part. When it issued its Advice and Suitability document to Mr S on 30 March 
2022, Fluent does seem to me to have given reassurances about how quickly it could 
process this application. I note the following extracts, which I consider are relevant.
The document noted Mr Ss priorities as follows 
Your main motivation for this mortgage was to a secure the lowest interest rate
available to you, as your current deal is coming to the end of the fixed period on the30/04/2022 and you would like to avoid reverting onto the lenders standard variable
interest rate.
And Fluent offered the following comments and reassurance in its recommendation 
This mortgage will meet your main motivation of securing the lowest interest rate
available to you, which ensures that you will not revert onto the lenders standard
variable interest rate once the fixed period on your existing deal comes to an end. 
As speed and ease of completion is important to you, [this lender] has a great track
record of completing mortgages swiftly.
Whilst it may not have been Fluents intention to commit to completing this mortgage 
before Mr Ss existing fixed rate period ended, I think it would be reasonable for Mr S to 
have taken this as a reassurance that his application would complete in this time.
It seems likely that Mr S went onto his old lenders SVR on 1 May. He found out hed 
been refused the new lending he applied for on 25 May, and applied promptly for a new 
fixed rate with that lender. This rate was (after some difficulties were ironed out) applied 
from 26 May. 
That means there are twenty-five days when Mr S paid the SVR. If Fluent had passed 
on each of the two delayed requests for information it received from Mr Ss prospective 
lender within a few days of receiving them, then it seems most likely that this would 
have been avoided, and Mr S could instead have arranged a new fixed interest rate 
mortgage with his existing provider that would have started as his old product ended.
Because of that, and in the particular circumstances of this case, I think it is reasonable 
to ask Fluent to cover those additional costs for Mr S.
Mr S sent us information from his pre-existing lender, who he eventually renewed with. 
That indicates his previous product ended at the end of April, and Mr S paid the SVR for 
May and June. His new fixed rate product was applied on 14 June, but (helpfully for 
present purposes) the lender said the product could have been applied on 26 May, and 
provided an amount for the overpaid interest of £553.79 for 26 May to 13 June, 
inclusive. If we divide £553.79 by 19 days, that gives a daily charge of £29.15. Multiplied 
by 25 days, that gives £728.75.
On the evidence Ive seen so far, I think Fluent should pay £728.75 to Mr S. Fluent can 
count towards that amount, any payment it has already made to Mr S for this complaint. 
And I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I dont 
think that Fluent has to pay further compensation, in addition to this.
I should note for completeness that Mr S referred to a misleading email sent by Fluent,
which referred to his application as being in the bag. I think its unfortunate that Fluent
didnt recognise what does appear to be standard wording from one of its marketing 
emails. However, I dont think that Mr S was actually misled by this email. And our 
service looks only at the particular circumstances of this complaint. So any wider 
implications of this, or possible impact in other circumstances, wouldnt be for me to 
comment on here.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only Fluent replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fluent replied to object to my provisional decision. It began by noting that Mr S had owned a 
BTL property for at least 5 years and would have completed mortgage applications for this 
property in the past. So Fluent felt it would be reasonable to assume that Mr S would have 
known when he contacted Fluent on the 23 March 2022 that the timescale he wanted Fluent 
to work towards was not sufficient. But Fluent said that my view departed from the previous 
adjudication (which Fluent agreed with) because I had said Fluent was somehow at fault for 
this, due to informal prose within an email.
I dont think its reasonable to assume that any prior mortgage applications by Mr S would 
mean he would automatically have been aware that, in the current market, a remortgage 
application made on 25 March might not complete by the end of April. But even if he had 
concerns about this, the wording Fluent refers to takes the form of reassurances given to Mr 
S, that Fluent had chosen a mortgage lender with a track record of completing mortgages 
quickly, and the mortgage it recommended ensures that you will not revert onto the lenders 
standard variable interest rate once the fixed period on your existing deal comes to an end. 
I dont accept that this was simply informal prose in an email.
Fluent said Mr S had caused delays to the processing of his own application, when he was 
on holiday between the 6th and 13th of May 2022. Fluent said that also contributed to the 
mortgage not being completed within the customers ideal timeframe, but didnt appear to 
have been factored into my consideration of redress. 
When I consider a complaint, I look at what went wrong. And where I can see mistakes have 
been made, I have to think about what would have happened if those mistakes werent 
made. Here, Fluent received a request for further information from the lender on 20 April. Mr 
Ss complaint to Fluent said that hed been told by the lender that it then chased this with 
Fluent on 26 April and 6 May, and Fluent doesnt seem to me to have contested this. But it 
was only around the time of the third request that Fluent asked Mr S for the information the 
lender wanted. If Fluent had responded to the lenders first or second request, this additional 
delay due to Mr Ss short holiday would not have occurred.
Fluent said Id also stated that Fluent didnt notice the product had been declined, causing a 
delay between 24 and 25 May. Fluent said it thought 24 hours administrative time was not 
unreasonable, and its team would have relayed this information to the customer, if given 
time to do so. So it said this day should not be factored into my redress.
Fluent didnt tell Mr S his mortgage had been declined. Mr S contacted the lender, and then 
apparently told Fluent this. At this point, Fluent realised it had already received notification of 
this, which it had not yet shared with Mr S. I made no finding on how long this delay may 
have continued for, if Mr S hadnt obtained the information he received elsewhere. 
I should note here that, if we do include this one day, then Fluent caused delays of 39 days 
in total. However, Mr S only paid additional interest for 25 days, and the interest Ive asked 
Fluent to pay is based on this, not on the length of the delay it caused. So even if I were to 
agree entirely with Fluents argument about this one additional day, my award in this case 
would not change. 
Fluent also said that its recommendation is always made on an in principle basis so it didnt 
feel it was fair to assume it had provided Mr S with any guarantees of completion prior to his 
fixed rate deal coming to an end. Fluent said that the industry was in turmoil during this time, with little or no notice given by lenders when products were withdrawn from the market. And 
it said that each time this occurred, it was left with literally hundreds of customers suddenly 
without products, which it needed to address in order to prevent mass foreseeable harm. 
Fluent said this additional strain naturally caused unavoidable backlogs, which although it 
had endeavoured to resolve as expediently as possible, regretfully led to the issues seen 
with Mr Ss case. So Fluent said its view was that the delays within Fluent were not the 
cause of Mr Ss complaints, but symptoms of errors of governmental policy and their impact 
on the credit risk policies of the lender industry. It wanted to know why the upstream causes 
of the problem werent being held accountable. Fluent said that my adjudication was setting 
a damaging precedent for the market, and it wanted me to reconsider. 
Decisions of our service are specific to the case, and dont provide a binding precedent. And 
here, this decision is, in my view, quite clearly a result of the individual facts of this case. 
I have not, as Fluent suggested, assumed that Fluent provided guarantees that it would be 
able to arrange Mr Ss mortgage in time. Rather, Ive looked at the actual wording of its 
communications with Mr S, and noted that far from warning him of the possible effect of the 
market turmoil and delays which it now describes (which I said Fluent must have been aware 
of from the outset) it instead gave Mr S reassurances that this work could be completed 
within his deadlines. And I also found that if requests for information from the lender had 
been passed to Mr S reasonably promptly, within a few days of receipt, instead of 
overlooked, then it was likely the lenders decision in this case could have been provided to 
Mr S within these deadlines. 
For the above reasons, I havent changed my mind in this case. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Fluent Money Limited must pay Mr S £728.75.
Fluent Money Limited can count towards that amount, any payment it has already made to
Mr S for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman