DRN-3746341
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Equitable Plc didnt pay benefits from his late brothers pension  
in line with his brothers wishes; and didnt provide him with a letter confirming the total 
lifetime allowance used.
What happened
Mr Ts brother died in 2019. Mr T dealt with his brothers Estate. His brother had a Self-
invested Personal Pension with Scottish Equitable. In March 2020 Scottish Equitable wrote 
to Mr T saying under its discretionary disposal rules a lump sum of £7,983.49, would be paid 
to him. He contacted Scottish Equitable to question this and asked who else had received 
payments. 
Scottish Equitable explained that the pension didnt form part of his brothers Estate and the 
payments had been dealt with under its discretionary powers in accordance with the scheme 
rules. Scottish Equitable said it couldnt provide information about payments to other 
beneficiaries but would confirm the amount of lifetime allowance used.
Mr T complained that the way payments had been made wasnt in line with his brothers 
wishes, as set out in his Will. 
When he referred that complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered it and 
said the way the benefits had been paid was in line with the scheme rules. The complaint 
wasnt upheld. 
Mr T then raised some further concerns. In reply, Scottish Equitable said: 
The amount paid to Mr T was less than the figure originally quoted due to fluctuations 
in fund values.
It couldnt provide details of how the amount had been calculated but could let him 
have details of the transactions carried out before the benefits were paid.
It accepted there had been some poor communication.
Scottish Equitable paid some compensation for the poor service. 
Information about the lifetime allowance was sent to Mr T in October 2021. Scottish 
Equitable explained that it had changed its processes and would now provide this 
information to a personal representative. 
Mr T remained unhappy with the way Scottish Equitable had dealt with the various 
complaints he had made and referred this complaint to our service. Our investigator said:
He couldnt consider how Scottish Equitable dealt with paying the benefits as this had 
been considered in the previous complaint.
He could consider the information Scottish Equitable had provided about the lifetime 
allowance. That was sent to Mr T in October 2021 by email and post, so it had 
eventually been provided and nothing further needed to be done about this.
Mr T had referred to the inconvenience he was caused in relation to this, but Scottish 
Equitable had sent a voucher with its response in January 2022 to address this, and 
in any event we couldnt make an award to him as the representative of his brothers 
Estate.
Mr T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the focus of this 
complaint should be on the fact Scottish Equitable didnt provide him with a hard copy letter 
confirming the total lifetime allowance used  the other matters having been addressed in 
the previous complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Mr T raised two issues  that Scottish Equitable didnt pay benefits from the 
pension in line with his brothers wishes; and didnt provide him with a letter confirming the 
total lifetime allowance used. Our investigator explained that we couldnt consider how the 
benefits had been paid, as that had been dealt with in the previous complaint. Mr T has 
confirmed that the focus of this complaint should be the failure to provide details of the 
lifetime allowance usage, as the other matters have been addressed. That being the case, I 
havent considered the way the benefits were paid and will only address whether Scottish 
Equitable provided details of the lifetime allowance usage.
The lifetime allowance is a limit on the amount of pension benefits a consumer can hold 
before being taxed at more than their usual rate of income tax when they withdraw benefits. 
Mr T wanted to know how much of that limit had been used up. When he first requested 
information about this, Scottish Equitables policy was to only provide information to a 
beneficiary about how much of the allowance had been used by the payment made to them. 
So it didnt send information to Mr T about the allowance used up by payments to other 
beneficiaries.
However, Scottish Equitable changed its policy on this and in October 2021 sent a letter to 
Mr T with details of the lifetime allowance. This was sent by email and post. It included the 
amount paid to each beneficiary and the amount of lifetime allowance used in respect of 
each payment. 
Mr T says he hasnt received a hard copy letter. From the evidence Ive seen, a letter was 
sent to him. I cant say why it wasnt received but he has received the information contained 
in the letter by email. So the information Scottish Equitable agreed to send has been given to 
him. I dont think theres any specific requirement to provide a hard copy, or that any loss 
was caused by the delay in providing it or the fact it was received by email.
I appreciate Mr T has referred to various points raised in his correspondence with Scottish 
Equitable and the amount of time he has spent in correspondence. But he has received 
some compensation in relation to this. And while he refers to further delays after that was 
paid, thats not something I can make any award for. This complaint about the lifetime 
allowance is made by Mr T in his capacity as the personal legal representative. On this 
issue, Mr T is effectively brings the matter on his brothers behalf (as the person authorised 
in law to do so). I have no power to make an award for any impact on Mr T personally in 
these circumstances. For these reasons, while I appreciate this will be upsetting for Mr T, 
there is nothing further I can ask Scottish Equitable to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman