DRN-4006198
The complaint
Mr H has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy 
about the delay in settling his motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his motor insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. 
The AA looked into the claim and decided to pay Mr H the market value of his car as it was a 
total loss. But Mr H wasnt happy about the delay in settling his claim, especially because he 
felt he had to pay to hire a car for a short while because of the delay. 
When Mr H complained to the AA it acknowledged that there had been some delay and 
offered £100 by way of compensation. But Mr H wasnt happy about this as he felt it should 
pay his hire car costs so he complained to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr H but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
agreed the AA had delayed matters he thought that its offer of compensation was fair.
As Mr H didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Although I can understand why Mr H feels his claim should have been paid earlier there is 
often delay in dealing with car insurance claims and they can often take a lot longer than Mr 
Hs claim took to finalise. Unfortunately, there can often be a lot of inconvenience when 
advancing insurance claims. However, it is accepted that the AA did delay in finalising Mr 
Hs claim as there was an error in arranging the collection of his vehicle and it has offered 
£100 compensation in acknowledgement of this. 
I know Mr H incurred some further hire costs over and above the 21-day hire car he was 
entitled to. But he took some additional time to consider the AAs initial valuation. While I can 
understand why Mr H wanted to make sure he was happy with the valuation, I cant hold the 
AA responsible for this. It was Mr Hs decision to take time to consider this and to hire a car 
in the intervening period. And although it would have been good of the AA to pay his 
additional costs it was under no obligation to under the policy. So, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask it to pay Mr Hs additional hire car costs now. And as Ive already highlighted 
motor insurance claims can often be drawn out, so I think the £100 compensation is fair. 
Given this, I think the AA has acted fairly in its response to the delay in dealing with Mr Hs 
claim and offering £100 compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman