DRN-3935657
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Miss R is being represented in this complaint by Mr H. For ease of reference, my decision 
will only refer to Miss R.
What happened
On 26 July 2021, Miss R was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. She paid a deposit of £1,000 and the agreement was for £27,995 over 60 
months; with 59 monthly repayments of £574.50 and a final payment of £575.50. At the time 
of supply the car was five years old and had done 78,140 miles.
In July 2022, Miss R complained to MotoNovo about the quality of the car. She said there 
was a problem with the DPF. She also provided an independent engineers report, dated 22 
July 2022, which said that the DPF was oversaturated and it may well be no longer 
serviceable  we also have corresponding faults with regards to the [DPF] logged within the 
diagnostic log of the vehicle. The independent engineer also confirmed that we do consider 
the fault to have been developing at purchase  even allowing for the elapsed time [AND] 
there is no evidence to suggest the condition has solely developed in the period since the 
sale of the vehicle.
At the time of the report, the car had travelled 81,596 miles  3,456 since being supplied to 
Miss R.
MotoNovo didnt accept the independent engineers report, as they felt there were some 
discrepancies. They also felt that, despite what the engineer had said, given the time that 
had passed since the car was supplied to Miss R, this was enough to show the car was of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
Miss R wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the independent engineer had confirmed there was a fault with the car 
when it was supplied to Miss R, and he thought this meant the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied. He also said that the evidence showed that the repairs would cost 
more than the value of the car. As such, he didnt think it was reasonable to ask MotoNovo 
to carry out repairs.
So, the investigator said that Miss R should be allowed to reject the car and MotoNovo 
should refund the deposit she paid, as well as any payments shed made from July 2022 
(when she stopped using the car), plus statutory interest. The investigator also said that 
MotoNovo should pay Miss R an additional £150 for the inconvenience shed been caused 
by being supplied with a faulty car, as well as removing any adverse information from her 
credit file.
MotoNovo accepted the investigators findings. Miss R also agreed with the investigator, but 
she thought that MotoNovo should also pay her alternate transport (hire car and taxi) costs 
while the car wasnt able to be used. Because of this, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, it implies that its for Miss R to show that it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss R took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put 
this right.
Ive reviewed the information supplied by the independent engineer, and this confirms there 
was a fault with the car that was present or developing at the point of supply. Ive also seen 
that the engineer confirmed their duty is to the courts. And this overrides any obligation to 
whomever instructed and/or paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied that this report is 
reasonable to rely upon.
Both Miss R and MotoNovo have accepted there was a fault with the car that was present 
when the car was supplied to Miss R; that this fault made the car of an unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied; that Miss R stopped using the car after the independent engineers report in 
July 2022; and theyve both also accepted the investigators recommendations. As such, my 
decision will address the only unresolved point of contention  Miss Rs alternate transport 
costs.Miss R thinks Moneybarn shouldve covered her hire car and taxi costs. Had there not been 
an issue with the car, Miss R wouldve had transportation and the costs associated with this 
i.e. the payments to MotoNovo. And, as Miss W didnt have use of the car, MotoNovo have 
agreed to refund the payments from July 2022. As such, if MotoNovo were to also refund 
Miss R the cost of the hire car / taxis then she essentially has received double recovery  
her original and alternate transport costs wouldve been paid by MotoNovo, and Miss R 
wouldve been able to travel for free. And I dont think this is fair. So, I wont be asking 
MotoNovo to refund Miss Rs alternate transport costs.
However, this doesnt alter the fact that Miss R has been inconvenienced by the fault to the 
car, and the need to have it inspected. So, considering all of the above, I think the £150 our 
investigator recommended is a fair one, in line with our services usual approach and what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already been made
Putting things right
So, unless MotoNovo have already done this, they should:
close the agreement with nothing further to pay;
remove any negative information relating to this agreement from Miss Rs credit file;
refund the deposit Miss R paid;
refund all payments Miss R paid from July 2022 onwards;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Miss R 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;and
pay Miss R £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by her being supplied 
with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint and MotoNovo Finance Limited 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman