DRN-3252457
The complaint
Mr K complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) acted unfairly in 
the way it handled his claim on his breakdown repair cover (BRC) policy after his car 
broke down.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents which administer the policy and in whose 
name it is branded.
What happened
Mr K took out his BRC policy (also known as parts and garage cover) in October 2020. 
He added a second car (car 2) to the policy with effect from 25 January 2021.
On 24 February 2021 car 2 developed a fault, so Mr K called out a mobile patrol. The 
mechanic couldnt fix the problem at the roadside, so he said it needed to be taken to a 
garage. In the breakdown report he sent to Mr K, the mechanic said suspect wheel 
bearing failing as excessive free play when vehicle jacked up. Slight movement and 
noise when driving also. Further checks and repair required to offside front wheel 
bearing. To make a parts and garage cover claim you must arrange for the vehicle to be 
taken without delay if it cannot be fixed at the roadside. Any delay or continued use will 
affect the validity of a potential claim. Any repairs need to be authorised prior to repair
On 26 February 2021, the garage told Acromas that the front offside wheel bearing had 
collapsed. Due to the nature of the fault and the short time on cover, Acromas said it 
would have to inspect the faulty part and that it would leave it with the garage to 
communicate that to Mr K. The garage owner indicated he was willing to sort the problem 
out without the need for an independent inspection. He suggested that once hed sorted it 
out, he could feed back to Acromas. Acromas responded along the lines that if the garage 
wanted to inspect things, theyd happily send an engineer out and sort it out on that 
basis. Acromas agreed to leave things with the garage.
Mr K says the garage then gave him two options, which were to agree to Acromas 
inspecting the faulty part (which could delay things for up to about a week), or for the 
garage to fix the problem and Mr K could sort it out with Acromas afterwards. Mr K agreed 
for the garage to carry out the repair and he paid it for the work. Mr K called Acromas on 2 
March 2021 to say he was confused about what was happening with his claim. According 
to Acromas notes it told Mr K that he needed to give his authority for the garage to strip 
the faulty part (even though Mr K had already had his car repaired by then) so that it could 
arrange an independent inspection and then await a call from the garage.
Mr K later complained to Acromas and, amongst other things, said it had delayed 
assessing the claim. In its response Acromas said it hadnt received any further contact 
from the garage following their discussion on 26 February 2021. And it didnt agree it had 
delayed assessing the claim, particularly as it hadnt heard from Mr K in the meantime. 
Acromas said Mr K should contact the garage as soon as possible if he wanted it to 
progress his claim. It didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr K wasnt happy with Acromas response, so he complained to this service. One of 
our investigators asked Acromas for further information. In response to our service it 
said it couldnt retrospectively examine the fault with any accuracy (as it was now fixed) 
or guarantee that the part to assess was the one removed at the time of the repair. It 
also added that this type of fault reported is rarely sudden in nature and thought it likely 
a by-product of wear. As the car was added to the policy not long before the fault 
occurred, Acromas said it was well within its rights to request an inspection to determine 
what caused it. It added that the policy doesn't cover pre-existing faults, but if, following 
inspection, the fault was deemed sudden, the claim would have been reviewed further. 
But Acromas didnt have the opportunity to inspect the faulty part so it didnt settle the 
claim.
Our investigator sent Mr K and Acromas her assessment of the complaint. Although she 
thought it was reasonable for Acromas to want to inspect the faulty part first  particularly 
as the policy terms say it might be necessary to do that  she didnt think it had acted 
fairly overall. The investigator said that Acromas had passed the responsibility for 
communicating to Mr K onto the garage, which had then given Mr K two options:
a) consent to an independent engineer inspecting the faulty part, which the 
garage apparently said could take up to a week to resolve;
b) have the fault repaired and then sort out the claim with Acromas afterwards.
The investigator pointed out that Mr K went for option two. And, as the options were offered 
by the garage (which she thought was acting for Acromas in this instance) it was 
reasonable for Mr K to assume that any information or options given to him were on behalf 
of Acromas. She thought it was equally reasonable for Mr K to choose the option that 
allowed his car to be repaired more quickly. But, the investigator didnt think it was fair for 
Acromas to later say it wouldnt pay the claim because Mr K hadnt authorised an 
inspection of the faulty part. To settle things the investigator said Acromas should progress 
the claim irrespective of the fact that it hadnt been able to inspect the faulty part first.
Acromas didnt agree. Whilst it accepted its not always necessary to appoint an 
independent engineer, it said its typical to do so in situations such as this when trying to 
work out when the problem first occurred. It also said its standard protocol for a repairing 
garage to relay the status of a claim following discussions, particularly as they have to 
determine what the customer wishes to do to progress their repair. Acromas also felt the 
investigators interpretation of a conversation between it and the garage was misinformed 
as was the conclusion shed reached. It said that the garage didn't act on behalf of 
Acromas. And any options put forward by the garage were done so entirely independently 
of Acromas.
As Acromas didnt agree, the matter was referred to an Ombudsman. Its been passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional findings
I sent Mr K and Acromas my provisional findings on 19 November 2021. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
And having done so, Im intending to reach a different view to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Acromas clearly had some concern that the fault reported on Mr Ks car may not have 
been sudden, particularly as it happened only a few weeks after he added the car to the 
policy. And it later indicated that problems with wheel bearings rarely happen suddenly 
and are more likely the result of wear and tear.
But Mr Ks BRC cover didnt include repairing faults that were pre-existing. So, in those 
circumstances, I agree with our investigator that it was entirely reasonable for Acromas to say it wanted to carry out an inspection before deciding if it could cover the claim. The 
term within the policy which says in some circumstances it may be necessary to appoint 
an independent engineer to inspect the car to assess whether the claim falls within the 
terms and conditions of your cover clearly allowed it to do that. Im also satisfied that the 
breakdown report given to Mr K following the roadside call out made clear that Acromas 
needed to give approval before any repairs were carried out. So, I think Acromas 
appropriately managed Mr Ks expectations from the outset.
Its a pity that things werent as clear later on. Ive listened to a call recording between 
Acromas and the garage on 26 February 2021 and I can hear Acromas quite clearly saying 
that it wanted to carry out an inspection, particularly given the nature of the fault and the 
time on cover. It also asked the garage to obtain Mr Ks approval for the damaged part to 
be stripped down. And from the note it made following the call, it was clear that it was 
waiting for the garage to speak to Mr K and then provide an update.
From what Ive heard during the call, its evident that the garage had other ideas about how 
things should be progressed, not least because it thought an inspection was likely to delay 
things for Mr K. And whilst Acromas said if you want it inspecting well happily send an 
engineer out and sort it out on that basis I do think it should have made it absolutely clear 
to the garage that it wasnt in a position to approve any works until it had first had the 
chance to inspect the faulty part. That said, I didnt hear anything from the conversation 
which suggested (particularly given what it said at the start about needing to do an 
inspection) that Acromas had given the go-ahead for the repair work to be done, under the 
terms of the policy, without an inspection taking place. And on that basis, I cant fairly say 
Acromas was responsible for what happened next.
I can fully appreciate that when given the choice of waiting for an inspection to be done 
(before even knowing whether his repairs would be covered by the claim) or having them 
done and trying to sort it out afterwards, Mr K opted for the quicker option. But he did so 
before Acromas had authorised those repairs. And his policy, as well as the report from the 
mobile mechanic, says that, in order to make a successful claim, before starting any repairs 
to his car, Acromas would need to authorise those. But Mr K didn't receive that 
authorisation. Thats significant because, as I've said above, not every fault/repair will be 
covered by the policy. And Mr K had the work done before Acromas could inspect the faulty 
part. In those circumstances, I think he prejudiced its position to see if the fault was 
covered. So, I dont think Acromas acted unfairly and unreasonably when responding to the 
claim in the terms it did.
I do understand that Mr K might feel that he was led into that position by the options the 
garage gave him. But Mr Ks policy is clear that any repairing garages are instructed by 
Mr K not Acromas. So the contract for repair is between Mr K and the garage itself. The 
garage doesn't act as Acromas agents or representatives. So Acromas isn't responsible for 
the options the garage gave Mr K.
I appreciate that this will likely come as disappointing news to Mr K, but Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Acromas nor Mr K had anything further to add to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither Mr K nor Acromas have given me additional comments or new information to 
consider, I see no reason to change what I said in my provisional decision. My final 
decision is therefore set out below.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman