DRN-3484813
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) made errors in 
processing his payments and payment holidays. This resulted in a debt being passed to a 
debt collection agency when he wasnt aware of any money owing. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr A acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The agreement 
was for 48 monthly payments followed by an optional purchase payment. 
In late 2020 and early 2021, there were some errors made with Mr As payments. Coming off 
the back of an agreed payment holiday, MBFS refunded some payments in error. Mr A says 
that MBFS didnt notify him that these refunded payments (for January to March 2021) were 
then logged as overdue, and they passed the matter to a debt collection agency. 
Mr A complained to MBFS about this and they responded in June 2021 upholding his 
complaint. They apologised for refunding his payments in error and explained this was a 
system error on their part. They said that as the money had been returned to Mr A but was 
still due, he would need to repay it to them. They confirmed that he had already been in 
touch with their collections department about this.  
MBFS upheld the complaint and offered Mr A £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A brough the complaint to our service in July 2021. An investigator 
here investigated the case and in March 2022 gave their view that the business didnt need 
to do anymore. They felt the £150 offered was fair, alongside Mr As credit file having been 
corrected to remove reference to missed payments (this had happened whilst the case was 
awaiting investigation at our service). 
Mr A didnt accept this view. He felt the anxiety and stress caused should warrant more 
compensation, so asked for an Ombudsman to review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I need to deal briefly with a separate issue. After bringing his complaint to our 
service, Mr As agreement was coming towards its end. He wanted to keep the car, so 
discussed refinancing the balloon payment with MBFS. When an investigator here was 
allocated to his case, Mr A explained he wasnt happy that this process had led to his credit 
file being noted as showing missed payments, and then even after this was amended, he 
wasnt happy that MBFS had declined to offer him a refinance of the balloon payment. 
I wont be commenting on this or providing any answer to these concerns. They dont form 
part of the complaint he raised with MBFS earlier in 2021, and therefore dont form part of 
that complaint that he brought to our service in July 2021. If Mr A wishes to complain about 
how he was treated during these negotiations, he will first need to do so with MBFS directly, 
to allow them to answer that complaint. But this will form an entirely separate complaint to 
the one I am answering here, so I wont be commenting on it further.
With regards to this complaint about MBFS mistakenly refunding payments back to him that 
he had made to them, it's not in dispute that MBFS made a mistake here. They have 
confirmed that a system error caused these payments to be returned in error to Mr A, and 
apologised.
So, what I am considering is what impact this had, and whether the offer of £150 
compensation is fair. Mr A told us when raising the complaint that MBFS had refunded the 
value of his payments and then not contacted him to tell him this, instead referring the debt 
to a debt collection agency. 
However, MBFS have provided evidence that they were contacting him about these 
payments and sent letters in April and May 2021, before he brought the complaint, and also 
continued to send letters later in the year. They also brought the debt back from the debt 
collection agency. 
Mr A didnt immediately return the payments to MBFS. Even after becoming aware of the 
issue, it was several months later before he returned the money required to MBFS. 
Whilst MBFS have clearly made an error here in returning these payments to him, I also 
think its reasonable to expect that Mr A would be aware of this money that had been 
returned to his bank account, and to either recognise this was an error, or to contact MBFS 
to query it if he wasnt sure why the payments had been refunded. 
I would also expect MBFS to correct any wrong entries on his credit file as a result of their 
error. His credit file was not updated initially when upholding his complaint, so I have 
considered whether this was fair or not. 
Im satisfied that this would be down to the fact that he hadnt returned the money back to 
MBFS at that point. Because that meant he did still have missing payments, MBFS were 
obliged to report these to credit reference agencies. Once he had returned the money later 
in the year, his credit file was updated so it didnt report any dispute or missed payments. I 
am satisfied that MBFS dealing with it in this way is fair. 
Mr A has been offered £150 by MBFS for the trouble and upset caused. He thinks that the 
anxiety and stress he suffered means this amount should be higher. I empathise with his 
situation and having to try to correct an error which wasnt his fault, but Im not persuaded 
that further payment for distress or inconvenience is merited. 
MBFS acted swiftly to apologise and uphold his complaint once they recognised their error, 
and Ive not seen any specific issues caused by their error that would mean the offer of £150 
wasnt fair. I agree that this situation would cause Mr A some anxiety and upset, but I am 
satisfied that the offer of £150 to recognise this is fair. On top of this, its important to 
recognise that MBFS havent deprived him of his money or cost him any money; theyve 
actually returned money to him that he wasnt entitled to get back. 
MBFS have not paid the £150 offered yet as Mr A didnt want to accept it and preferred to 
bring his complaint to our service first. They have confirmed they are happy to honour it 
however, so I will leave this for MBFS and Mr A to make contact and arrange the payment, 
should Mr A accept my decision.  My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited original 
offer to settle this complaint was fair, so Im not asking them to do any more than honour that 
original offer of £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman