DRN-4333587
The complaint
E a company, complains that ClearBank Limited blocked its account and closed it without 
notice. E would like the closing balance released and compensation. E is represented by its 
director Mr K.
What happened
E had an account with ClearBank. 
ClearBank carried out a review of Es account. They blocked the account on 
29 September 2021.  They asked Mr K to provide proof of entitlement to some payments 
that had come into the account.  Mr K provided documentation on 30 September 2021. 
ClearBank informed E that its account would close with immediate effect on 
30 September 2021.The bank asked E for a nominated account to transfer the balance of 
the account. The balance on the account was £3.84.
Mr K has said that he had difficulty in registering a complaint with the bank. And in getting 
statements.
E complained to ClearBank. They said they should have given E notice earlier in order to 
give E a chance to make alternative banking arrangements.
E was unhappy with the response and complained to our service. I am aware that Mr K has 
two further complaints regarding business accounts with our service and these will be dealt 
with separately.
Mr K told us he had been unable to make payments to his mortgage lenders and had 
suffered loss and financial harm.
One of the adjudicators looked into the complaint. She said ClearBank hadnt done anything 
wrong when they blocked and closed Es account. She thought the bank was entitled to ask 
for a nominated account to return the closing balance. She didnt think ClearBank had to 
send a cheque if this wasnt its process. She thought the complaint Mr K had raised on 
behalf of E had been acknowledged the next day and she could see that the statements E 
had requested had been sent to E.
Mr K was unhappy with the view.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K representing E requested time to provide this service with further information. However, 
despite waiting three weeks for Mr K to provide this service with further information he hasnt 
done so. I have to balance Mr Ks wish to provide more evidence with the need to provide 
both parties with an answer to their complaint. I have considered whether I have sufficient 
information on file to reach a fair and reasonable decision and Im satisfied that I have so I 
have proceeded to review all the evidence provided to me by both parties.
Review and Block 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Es account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied ClearBank were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Es account. 
ClearBank blocked Es account and requested information about some payments into its 
account. E provided information that same day.
ClearBank can block an account whilst it carried out its review. I can see that in blocking the 
account the bank were following an internal process which they carried out in order to 
comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant 
say ClearBank was unfair. Ive looked at the terms of the account and Im satisfied 
ClearBank could block the account. Im also satisfied they didnt cause any delays and they 
carried out the review promptly.
Closure
ClearBank then let E know it was closing the account with immediate effect. So, Ive next 
looked at ClearBanks decision to close Es account. Banks are entitled to end their business 
relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Es account say that ClearBank can 
close an account in certain circumstances immediately and also by giving notice. ClearBank 
closed Es account with immediate effect. ClearBank later said to E in its final response letter 
(FRL) that they should have given E notice to allow E time to make alternative 
arrangements. When E referred the complaint to our service ClearBank said their terms 
allowed for immediate closure and they had acted fairly when closing Es account with 
immediate effect. 
Because of the different statements made by ClearBank regarding the closure of Es account 
Ive considered the impact these had on E and whether this caused E any detriment. On 
balance Im not satisfied that it has. I say this because the account was always going to be 
closed, E was originally given immediate notice and by the time the FRL was sent on 
26 November 2021 the account had closed. So being told E should have got more notice 
wouldnt change the outcome of E having to look for another account.
I have gone on to consider if Clearbank acted fairly in closing the account with immediate 
effect. I have reviewed in detail all the information received from both parties and the terms 
and conditions of the account. As Ive said ClearBank terms allow it to close accounts giving 
notice and in some cases without notice. Since Es account was closed without notice Ive 
gone on to check if I think they acted fairly in doing so and looking at the information 
provided Im satisfied that they acted fairly when closing the account immediately. It follows I 
dont think compensation is due. 
Closing balanceThe account had a closing balance of £3.84. E has said they would like this paid by cheque. 
ClearBank have said that they operate digitally and as such only send funds to accounts and 
thats why they asked for Es new bank details. ClearBank is entitled to have its processes in 
place as to how it runs its accounts, and I dont think its done anything wrong by requesting 
Es bank details. I know Mr K hasnt wanted to provide the bank with Es new account 
details. However as there is a process in place which E can follow, I will leave it to E to pass 
the details of its new account to ClearBank. I dont think ClearBank have done anything 
wrong by following this process.
Mr K asked ClearBank to provide statements for Es account. I can see from the file that a 
link was provided via our service for E to access the account statements and this was 
forwarded to Mr K by our adjudicator, so Im satisfied E has had its statements as requested.
E has also said it wasnt able to raise a complaint via the app as Es account was blocked. 
However, I know the complaint was raised and the complaint was acknowledged shortly 
after. An FRL was issued regarding the complaint so I cant see that E has been prejudiced 
by this. I wont be awarding any compensation for this.
Mr K mentioned losses he had incurred as a result of the block and closure. And he has 
provided us with evidence of them. As Ive mentioned above, I think the account block and 
immediate closure was fair so I cant say that ClearBank should be held liable for any losses 
incurred by E. I can see that the direct debits went unpaid on 7 October and 21 October 
2021. Mr K was aware that the account had been closed on 30 September and so I would 
have expected him to make alternative arrangements to pay his mortgage direct debits. I 
dont think this was Clearbanks responsibility, so I wont be asking them to cover Mr Ks 
losses. 
In addition, the funds remaining in the account at closure were £3.84 which is substantially 
below any mortgage payments Mr K has said he has to pay, so I dont think E having access 
to this money would have prevented delays in paying Es mortgages.
In summary having looked at all the information provided by both parties Im satisfied that 
ClearBank acted fairly when they blocked and closed Es account and I wont be asking 
them to pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman