DRN-2296087
The complaint
The complaint is about an equity release mortgage that Mr and Mrs T used to hold with 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. Theyre unhappy that Avivas solicitors wouldnt give their 
buyers solicitors an undertaking that Avivas charge over their property would be removed 
on sale.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were moving house and intended porting the mortgage over to the new 
property. Aviva had agreed a new offer and the transaction was ready to complete when the 
buyers solicitor apparently insisted on receiving an undertaking from Avivas solicitors 
(whom Ill call E) that the charge Aviva held over Mr and Mrs Ts property would be removed.
Avivas position was that it had already given the undertaking itself as it would be the party 
applying to Land Registry to remove the charge once the sale had gone through. It therefore 
wasnt Es position to give a similar undertaking ahead of completion. Rather than risk 
jeopardising the sale, Mr and Mrs T completed and repaid the existing equity mortgage in 
full, incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). They say Avivas policies and procedures 
are fundamentally flawed and no one would agree to transact on its terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no regulatory function; its not my role to tell Aviva how to set up its lending policies and 
procedures. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and if Mr and Mrs T 
believe Avivas set up is fundamentally flawed and requires changing, they would need to 
raise their concerns with the FCA. My role is confined to deciding if Aviva applied its policies 
and procedures to this transaction wrongly. Having considered everything that both parties 
have said and provided, I dont find that it did.
I can understand why, when the issue was flagged up by the buyers solicitors so close to 
completion, Mr and Mrs T acted as they did to protect the transaction. But the timing of the 
query, whilst clearly unfortunate, wasnt down to anything Aviva or E did (or failed to do).  
The information pack that E sent out to the buyers solicitor (on Avivas behalf) made the 
position clear at the outset. The key passage is reproduced below:
Once completion of the porting transaction has taken place, the Lender will make an 
application to the Land Registry to remove the existing legal charge to your Clients current 
Property. Please note, we are not in a position to provide an undertaking in this regard.
It seems Mr and Mrs T may have misconstrued the context of that narrative when they 
described it as an admission by Aviva that it doesnt give an undertaking to remove the 
charge. The voice in the above narrative was clearly Es, not Avivas, and it was informing 
the buyers solicitors (correctly and in good time) that the Lender (Aviva) would be in 
control of the process of removing the charge. I have no remit over the actions of the buyers 
solicitor in response to that.
I said earlier that I understand why Mr and Mrs T acted as they did; but in redeeming the 
mortgage as they did, Mr and Mrs T prioritised completion of the sale over finding a solution 
that might have allow the mortgage to be ported. That was their prerogative, but it was also 
their choice, and they made it knowing an ERC would apply.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman