DRN-3157589
The complaint
Mrs O complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited.
What happened
In February 2018 Mrs O was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement 
with MBFS. The contract reached maturity in February 2020.
The car was inspected before it was collected. During the inspection, the agent told Mrs O 
that the parcel shelf was missing. Mrs O asked if she could drive home to get it, but the 
agent told her to contact MBFS and ask if she could send it to them. Mrs O says she 
contacted MBFS a week or two later and it was agreed that she could send the parcel shelf 
back. Mrs O says she misplaced the address for MBFS and then lockdown intervened. She 
says it slipped her mind until she received a letter from MBFS in June 2020 with a demand 
for £279.50 to be paid.
Mrs O complained to MBFS. She said it was unfair to charge her for the parcel shelf and she 
still wanted to return it. In response, MBFs said the charge had been correctly applied.
Mrs O wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants the 
charges removed.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that because the item was missing at 
the point when the car was inspected and collected, the charge had been applied fairly.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said MBFS had agreed that she could return the parcel shelf and 
she felt they should honour this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs O must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear, or any missing items, are 
her responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards which set out what is considered fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at what the guidelines say about missing items. It says that all items must be with 
the car on the day it is collected. Theres a list of items which need to be returned and the 
parcel shelf is within that list.
Mrs O doesnt dispute that the parcel shelf was missing when the car was collected. The 
inspection report states that the parcel shelf was missing. Taking the relevant guidance into 
account, Im unable to say that MBFS acted unfairly by charging for the missing parcel shelf.
Ive taken account of what Mrs O has said about agreeing to return the parcel shelf to MBFS. 
Theres no record of any agreement in the information provided by MBFS. Mrs O hasnt 
been able to provide evidence that the phone call took place, or that any agreement was 
reached. The agent who inspected the car no longer works for the company, so it hasnt 
been possible to obtain any information from him. Taking everything into account, there isnt 
enough evidence for me to safely conclude that Mrs O reached an agreement with MBFS to 
return the parcel shelf.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think the charges for the parcel shelf have been applied 
fairly. I wont be asking  MBFS to remove the charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman