DRN-2934846
The complaint
Mr R complains that TSB Bank plc failed to set up a debt management plan correctly. And 
that it caused him harassment in the way it chased him for the debt. He seeks 
compensation.
What happened
Mr R says that in October 2019 he made arrangements through a debt management charity 
that Ill refer to as P, to set up a debt management plan (DMP) for his three TSB accounts. 
The products to which the plan related were a loan, credit card and current account. Mr R 
says that TSB failed to set up the DMP for the current account. And that he received a 
number of contacts about the repayment of this account which he found harassing.
TSB told us that it had agreed to put the payment arrangements in place in respect of the 
loan and credit card accounts. But it said it hadnt recorded receiving any request from P 
about the current account until 13 December 2019. It said that as that account wasnt in 
arrears before then, it wouldnt have been able to set up a plan in any event. And that once it 
had received the proposal it had set up the plan immediately.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 June 2021. I indicated that I didnt 
intend to uphold the complaint.
I said that I thought thered probably been some misunderstanding between TSB and P 
about whether the payment arrangement had been agreed. But that there was insufficient 
information to show where the responsibility for the confusion arose. And I didnt think that 
TSB had acted unfairly in the way it had contacted Mr R.
Both parties have replied and I thank them for their responses. TSB had nothing to add. Mr 
R expressed his disagreement with my provisional decision. And provided further comments 
including asking me to require TSB to prove it didnt receive the document related to his 
current account.
For reasons Ill explain in my final decision set out below Im not minded to change the view I 
expressed in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr R has experienced financial difficulties. And I acknowledge that he is 
addressing the issue of repayment in a responsible manner. I recognise that being contacted 
about debt can be stressful and I understand why he would wish to keep this to the 
minimum.
Mr R has other complaint issues which are currently being investigated. So I make it clear 
that my decision relates only to the circumstances around the period between October 2019 
and December 2019.
I think its fair to characterise Mr Rs complaint as containing two main elements. Although 
there is some overlap between the two. Firstly, the failure to set up the DMP relating to the 
current account. And TSBs methods of chasing the debt. Mr R believes that if the DMP had 
been set up correctly its unlikely that there wouldve been a need to contact him separately.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ill deal with some of the main issues which Mr R raised in his response to my provisional 
decision.
Ps records indicate that it had sent the details of the proposed payment plans to TSB on 29 
October 2019. Its not in dispute that the proposals in relation to the credit card and loan 
accounts were accepted and implemented. But no arrangement was put in place in respect 
of the current account at that time.
Im satisfied on a balance of probabilities that P sent all three proposals to TSB.
P subsequently advised Mr R that these arrangements had been accepted on all three 
accounts. But Ive not seen any information that satisfies me that TSB had notified P that it 
had agreed the arrangements regarding the current account prior to December 2019.
TSB has explained that when it receives a request such as a payment arrangement proposal 
it manually inputs this type of information into its systems. 
As TSB hasnt any record of receiving the current account proposal at the same time as the 
other two documents, I think that suggests two plausible explanations. That theres been 
human error and the proposal was received but overlooked. Or that that there was a system 
malfunction and the proposal wasnt received. I dont think that in order to reach my final 
decision its necessary for me to speculate which is the more likely.
I dont think it reasonable to ask TSB to prove it didnt receive the missing payment 
proposal relating to the current account. We are an informal dispute resolution service. Apart 
from the inherent difficulty of proving a document wasnt received, TSB has answered 
queries about this issue. And Im satisfied that factually speaking the disputed payment 
arrangement offer wasnt entered on its systems at the end of October 2019.
Even if TSB had received the details of the proposed arrangement, I dont believe it wouldve 
set up an arrangement at that time.Thats because at the end of October 2020 the disputed account wasnt yet with TSB 
collections department. And until placed with its collections team, TSB has said it wouldnt 
have been possible to set up a payment arrangement.
TSB previously said the account wasnt in arrears at the end of October 2019. But I dont 
think that was strictly accurate. TSB had sent Mr R a letter dated 3 October 2019 showing 
hed exceeded his agreed overdraft by £12 or so. It would have been more accurate to say 
the account was not with its collections team - rather than not in arrears.
The letter of 3 October advised Mr R how he could avoid additional charges by bringing the 
account within the agreed limits. TSB acted correctly to notify Mr R of this situation. By giving 
him the chance to bring the account within the agreed limits it was providing the opportunity 
for him to avoid an adverse report to the credit reference agencies. 
It was, in my opinion - and considering the relatively small amount by which the agreed limit 
had been exceeded - fair and reasonable that the account wasnt moved into collections
at this time.
Mr R reasonably feels that if hed known that the missing proposal hadnt been accepted 
he may have been able to take steps to try to expedite matters. And I dont disagree.
TSB has explained that it didnt have a process to notify parties separately that proposed 
payment arrangements havent been agreed. Rather it sent out details only where 
arrangements had been agreed and set up. 
Its easy to suggest that it might be preferable for there to be a process whereby notification 
is sent where proposals arent agreed. But its not for this service to instruct TSB upon what 
processes it should put in place.  TSB was entitled to take the line that if a consumer or their 
representative doesnt receive a specific notice with details of acceptance it should not be 
assumed that the arrangement has been set up.
The other factor here is that Mr R had also been advised by P that all three plans were 
agreed. Ive already explained that Ive not seen any information that satisfied me that TSB 
had notified P that it had agreed the arrangement regarding the current account prior to 
December 2019. And I cant hold TSB responsible for information P passes to Mr R, if TSB 
isnt the source of that information.  And as this complaint isnt about P, I cant make any 
finding in respect of that organisation. 
In summary, I accept that Mr R reasonably believed that all three payment arrangements 
had been set up at the end of October 2019. In my opinion, there is insufficient information to 
show that an error by TSB was the cause of the mistaken belief relating to the current 
account.
Ill deal with the contacts which occurred between the end of October 2019 and December 
2019.  And I accept that any contact about debt  particularly if Mr R thought hed made 
arrangements  is likely to have been upsetting. But TSB would be entitled to contact a 
customer if it reasonably believed that there were arrears on agreements or payment 
arrangements had been broken.
TSB has said the current account didnt enter collections until December 2019. So Im not 
entirely clear about which section of the business would be contacting him about this 
account.
 But Ive seen details of contacts in November and December 2019 about the DMP relating to 
the loan account having been broken. On 12 November 2019, TSB agreed to reset the 
payment plan regarding the loan. And I see that during this call Mr R raised concerns about 
text messages.  TSB notes indicate that it agreed to cancel text alerts.
Notes from 11 December 2019 show there were further discussions about a broken payment 
plan. Its not suggested that Mr R wasnt making the required payments to P. The issue 
seems to be more about the dates on which payments were received by TSB from P. Its 
recorded that TSB offered Mr R £25 for distress and inconvenience. And that Mr R accepted 
this.
Further contacts took place on 12 and 13 December. The effect of these was to confirm that 
the current account was now with the collections team. But that there was no payment 
arrangement in place. TSB agreed to cancel impending charges and put the account on hold 
whilst the paperwork was resubmitted. And upon receiving the paperwork it implemented the 
arrangement without delay.
In summary, whilst acknowledging that any contact about debt might be stressful, on the 
information that Ive received, I didnt conclude that the contacts from TSB could fairly be 
viewed as harassment. Its reasonable for a business to seek to contact a customer if 
arrangements appear to have broken down. 
TSB responded to Mr Rs request and agreed to cease text messaging. And it provided him 
with a modest payment for distress and inconvenience relating to the issues about the dates 
on which payments were being received for the existing plans.
In addition, when it became apparent that there was an issue over the missing payment 
arrangement it agreed to place collection activity on hold pending the receipt of the 
application.
I think overall that TSB was alert to its responsibilities to show forbearance and due 
consideration. And that once it had the required information it fairly agreed to the payment 
arrangements which were being proposed. 
Sometimes its not possible to ascertain precisely where responsibility lies when things go 
wrong.  But as Ive explained, even if the arrangement application had been received earlier, 
its unlikely it wouldve been implemented much before the date it eventually became 
effective. Although I recognise that Mr R would have avoided the uncertainty that ensued.
I accept that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision but Ive decided that theres 
insufficient information to find that TSB has done anything wrong here. Or that it was 
responsible for the confusion that initially surrounded the disputed payment arrangement.  I 
think it reacted fairly to Mr Rs various concerns and upon receipt of the application took the 
required action to implement it without further delay.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 Stephen Ross
Ombudsman