DRN-1794077
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to settle her 
complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a 
store card account. 
What happened
Mrs M opened her store card account in September 1999. Some years later, in March 2004 
she was sold a PPI policy over the telephone which was related to her store card account. 
Mrs M complained the PPI was mis-sold. AXA didnt agree the PPI had been mis-sold, so 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator recommended that AXA should 
uphold the complaint. AXA agreed and offered compensation to Mrs M. 
This compensation was made up of a refund of the total PPI premiums paid plus any interest 
they would have caused on the account. AXA also included compensatory interest for any 
times Mrs M was out of pocket. The total offer was £827.49 after tax was taken off the 
compensatory interest. 
Mrs M wasnt happy that the amount of compensation was correct. Our adjudicator looked at 
what AXA had worked out and offered and said it was fair. Mrs M remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
Mrs M is represented by a third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has agreed to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and pay her compensation for the PPI that 
was mis-sold. In this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, but at 
whether what has been offered in compensation is fair. I think it is and I shall explain why.
When calculating the compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to work out what 
was paid for the PPI in premiums and, as they were added to the account balance, what 
interest was caused by the premiums. Then the business has to work out compensatory 
interest on the amounts the consumer was out of pocket for the PPI costs. 
That is what AXA has done in this case. 
When AXA didnt originally uphold Mrs Ms complaint it did offer her some compensation for 
excess commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the premium charged. This 
offer was for £414.52. Mrs M felt considering what was offered for this excess commission, 
the amount for the full mis-sale compensation of £827.49 wasnt right. 
Mrs M has also indicated she is unhappy with the fact that AXA wrote to her direct even 
though it had been told to write to her representative. She also feels AXA should have made an interim payment of the compensation when it agreed the policy was mis-sold, even 
though she didnt accept the offer and wanted this service to investigate further. 
AXA doesnt have full statement records for the account going back to August 2004 when 
the PPI was first applied to the account. The full monthly data starts from August 2005. But 
AXA does have some other computer records about the account. These show some total 
figures that relate to the account, including the total cost of the PPI that was ever charged, 
and that was £468.27. 
There are other total figures, for example the total purchases, which were £3,495.94 and the 
total interest ever charged to the account is £717.10. Whilst it isnt possible to provide Mrs M 
with the actual calculator and the computer screens, the basic totals may help her 
understand a little more the amounts involved in her account.
I have also looked at the full data and can see that there were times when Mrs M had no 
spending on her credit card or only had a small balance so only had a small PPI premium 
charged. For example, the first known premium applied in August 2005 was for £0.37p. The 
balance on the account was then clear until December 2005 when a premium of £1.01 was 
charged. The premium charged then reduced until March 2006 when Mrs M cleared her 
balance. The next spend, and premium charged was not until December 2006 when £0.57p 
was charged.
I hope some of this information will help reassure Mrs M that the premiums paid, as shown 
on the computer records for the lifetime balance, do seem in line with what could be 
expected from the way she used her account. And I have seen nothing to show the amounts 
for the total cost of the premiums and interest is wrong.
Mrs M has also raised concern at the level of compensatory interest applied. 8% simple 
interest is accepted as being a fair rate when a consumer is out of pocket for any money and 
this rate was established based on rates that the courts applied. 
So taking account of all the evidence I have seen, I think what AXA has worked out as the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
I have also considered the issues raised about the way AXA wrote to Mrs M instead of her 
representative. AXA has acknowledged it did make an error in the administration of this 
correspondence and has sent a written apology for this error. I think this is reasonable in all 
the circumstances and I am not directing any additional compensation should be paid.
The fact that AXA didnt make any interim payment to Mrs M when it made its offer hasnt 
caused Mrs M any loss. AXA has to update the 8% simple interest to the date of final 
payment to Mrs M. So as no interim payment was made then there is more 8% 
compensatory interest paid. Unless there is evidence of financial hardship then there is no 
reason why a business should make any interim payment whilst a complaint is being dealt 
with.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that AXA France IARD has offered to Mrs M to settle her complaint is fair. The 
compensatory interest should be updated to the date of final payment if no payment has yet 
been made. So, I am not upholding this complaint that more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.Chris Fraser
Ombudsman