DRN-2836719
The complaint
Miss A complains about the way esure Insurance Limited settled a car insurance claim.
What happened
At the relevant time, Miss A had car insurance underwritten by esure.
She was involved in an accident. She says the other driver accepted responsibility at the 
scene, but then made a claim to their insurer and said the fault was with Miss A.
Miss A was unhappy that esure decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. She says the 
evidence points to the fault being with the third party driver.
She made a complaint to esure. She said they ought not to have settled on a 50/50 basis. 
She wanted her no claims bonus reinstated. And she said esure had miscalculated her new 
premium when her policy came up for renewal.
Miss As complaint wasnt upheld by esure so she brought it to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt think esure had done anything wrong. 
Miss A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that Miss A decided not to renew her policy with esure. And she told 
us that meant she was no longer concerned about any possible miscalculation of her 
proposed premium. So, Im not going to address that issue in this decision.
The terms of Miss As policy are reasonably clear. In the Section about the claims 
procedure, they say:
 we have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings 
which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for 
our own benefit.
Miss A was presumably aware of that term when she bought the policy. If not, she ought to 
have been. 
Its not unusual for car insurance policies to include that term. In fact, that term  or similar 
wording, with the same effect - appears in most, if not all, mainstream car insurance policies. 
Its not inherently unfair on onerous for the policyholder either. It means that insurance 
companies arent put to the expense of defending claims, at considerable cost, when they 
know theres little chance of success  simply because the customer insists they werent at 
fault.
Its unfortunate for Miss A that all of that means there will be some cases where a driver was 
not at fault  and knows they werent at fault  but nonetheless finds the claim settled on a 
50/50 basis because there isnt sufficient evidence to prove in court that the fault was 
entirely with the third party.
Taking the term quoted above into account, esure are clearly entitled to settle claims as they 
see fit. However, what we would expect  to ensure that customers are treated fairly and 
reasonably  is that esure would carefully consider all the evidence available when deciding 
whether to settle or defend a claim.
I can see that in this case, esure have taken Miss As explanation of the circumstances of 
the accident into account. Theyve also been provided with the other drivers account by their 
insurer. And theyve considered that too. And theyve also established that there are no 
independent witnesses, nor any CCTV footage which might help determine who was at fault.
That being the case, I cant conclude that esure have treated Miss A unfairly or 
unreasonably by settling this claim as they did. Theyve taken all the evidence into account 
and decided  reasonably it seems to me  that a court would struggle to pin the blame for 
the accident on either driver. There are two conflicting versions of what happened and no 
independent evidence to back up either party.
They did also make it clear that the claim was being settled on a without prejudice basis, 
leaving Miss A free to pursue action against the other driver if she wishes to do so.
I can understand Miss As frustration if she wasnt at any fault in the accident. But Id also 
ask her to understand that esure would have absolutely no interest at all in settling a claim  
at some cost to them, of course  if they had reason to believe they could successfully 
defend it in court.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman