DRN-1084038
 
The complaint
Miss H has complained to us that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in September 1997. She bought the PPI when she was 
making arrangements to take out a mortgage. 
What happened
Miss H says she was told the policy was compulsory, was put under pressure to buy it even 
though she didn't want it and it wasn't explained to her. However she has also told us that 
she didn't know she had the PPI until this year. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the policy had been mis-sold. Because Miss H disagrees, her 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I've decided not to uphold Miss 's complaint. I'll explain why. 
HSBC can't confirm if it made a recommendation that Miss H ought to buy PPI. But even if I 
treat the sale on the basis that HSBC did make a recommendation - so that it had to ensure 
that it was suitable for her circumstances - it doesn't seem to me that the PPI was mis-sold.  
And I've also kept in mind the question of whether the information that HSBC gave Miss H 
about the policy was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed 
choice before taking it out. 
I think it's likely that HSBC made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Shes told 
us that she was made to think she had to take out the cover. I cant know precisely what was 
said to Miss H at the time of the sale, so I am making my finding based on what I think is 
most likely to have happened. 
Its also unfortunate that a lot of the sale documentation is no longer available, so Ive relied 
on the paperwork Ive seen plus what I know about HSBCs sales process for this type of 
policy at the time. Having taken all this into account I think its more likely than not that Miss 
H knew she had a choice about whether to buy the policy and decided to go ahead and buy 
it. 
Miss H appears to have been eligible for the policy and I haven't seen anything to suggest 
that she would have been disadvantaged by the main exclusions of the policy. Miss H has 
told us she was self-employed. But from what I've seen about the type of policy she had she wouldn't be in any worse position to make claim than some in full-time employment. I've also 
seen that the PPI would pay out for up to 12 months per claim, which would have been 
available in addition to any other sources of income she may have had. 
Other than that, I cant see that she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable, costing £17.82 per month for around £300 of cover. I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Id like to assure Miss H that Ive thought carefully about everything shes told us - including 
what shes said in response to our adjudicator's finding. And I've also taken into account 
what she's told us about the sale. But unfortunately I havent seen enough to make me think 
something went wrong in the sale process that led to the policy being mis-sold. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So HSBC doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss H paid for it. 
Miss H has also complained to us that HSBC didn't repay her the commission and profit 
share it received from the sale of the policy.  Im also not upholding this aspect of the 
complaint and will explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
HSBC has given me information that shows Miss H's mortgage borrowing was taken out in 
or around September 1997 and ended in November 1999. So it follows that I dont think the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So HSBC doesnt need to refund any of the commission that Miss H paid for the PPI she had 
with her mortgage.
I'm sorry to have to disappoint Miss H but I don't think the policy was mis-sold and I'm 
satisfied that Miss H isn't entitled to a refund of commission. 
My final decisionI don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman