DRN-4440041
The complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he was given by Santander UK Plc. In particular, he says 
that other funds were not considered and that he wasnt made aware of the past 
performance of the recommended fund. 
What happened
Mr S met with an advisor from Santander in October 2015. He was recorded as wanting 
investment advice as he had a lump sum available in his deposit account. Proceeds of a 
guaranteed structured product, following maturity in March that year. 
Mr S was subsequently advised to invest approximately £26,750 from these proceeds, into a 
new 5-year structured product. At the same time, Mr S was also advised to switch 
approximately £31,000 that he had invested in the Santander Max 100% Shares Portfolio 
fund. 
Santander say they identified that Mr S investment didnt match his attitude to risk, so he 
was advised to switch this into the Santander Max 70% Shares Portfolio fund. This was a 
fund that invested 70% in shares, rather than 100% like the fund Mr S was invested in. It 
was recorded that Mr S elected to only switch £15,240 (his remaining current years ISA 
allowance). 
Mr S complained to Santander in October 2022. He said that the advice given to switch into 
the Max 70% Shares Portfolio fund was wrong. In particular, he felt that other fund options 
had been ignored and that he hadnt been made aware of the past performance of the fund. 
Santander responded to Mr S. They said that the advice given was suitable as it matched his 
circumstances and needs at the time. They stressed that it importantly also brought the risk 
profile of his portfolio in line with his attitude to risk at the time. 
Mr S remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our investigator looked into it. She said she felt the recommendations were a 
suitable fit and that Santander had done what was expected of them. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander were giving advice in 2015, they had certain obligations towards Mr S. This 
included making a suitable recommendation, based on his circumstances, objectives, 
investment experience and attitude to risk. The information supplied by Santander about 
their recommendation needed to be clear, fair and not misleading in order for Mr S to make 
an informed decision. 
Ive looked at what I know about Mr S overall financial situation when he received this 
advice. In addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for me to rely on 
information in the fact find document and other point of sale documents.
At the time of the advice, Mr S circumstances were that he was 44 years old, employed full 
time and married with no dependents. He jointly owned a home with no mortgage and had 
over £130,000 in existing investments. Mr S objectives at the time of the advice, were to 
invest his matured amount and invest in the longer term to maximise growth for future 
spending needs. His attitude to risk was assessed and recorded as medium. On reviewing 
Mr S existing investments, it was found that these were not in line with this attitude to risk. 
Considering all of this, I think the advice given to Mr S to invest into the 5-year structured 
product and to switch into the 70% shares portfolio fund, was suitable. It matched his object 
of growth over at least five years. The recommendation also meant the risk profile of his 
investments were in line with his recorded attitude to risk. 
Mr S has complained about the advice to switch from the Santander Max 100% Shares 
Portfolio fund into the Santander Max 70% Shares Portfolio fund. However, the basis of this 
was because Mr S was happy with the fund he was invested in but it carried more risk than 
he was prepared to take. I think this was appropriate. Mr S didnt have to go ahead with the 
switch and in fact didnt switch the full amount that was recommended. 
Mr S is unhappy that the advisor didnt show him all available funds, so he could make a 
decision. However, whilst I cant be sure what was discussed at the meeting in 2015, this 
wasnt a requirement. Santander had to make a suitable recommendation, and I think they 
did. Hes also said that the advisor shouldve shown him the past performance of the fund he 
was being advised to switch into. However, again, I wouldnt have expected the advisor to do 
this. Past performance is not an indicator of future performance. Mr S couldve requested 
such information if he so wished, and I havent seen anything to show that he did, and it 
wasnt made available to him.
In summary, I think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. It matched his circumstances and 
needs, and took into account the discrepancy between his existing portfolio and his recorded 
attitude to risk.  
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 Yoni Smith
Ombudsman