DRN-1571072
 
The complaint
Mr I has complained about Milestone Insurance Consultants Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way it set up and then cancelled his commercial taxi insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr I wanted to add an additional driver to his insurance policy but his insurer wouldnt do 
this. So Mr I approached a broker (Milestone) and it managed to place him on cover with a 
new insurer and Mr I cancelled his previous insurance policy.
It turned out that Milestone had got things wrong and the new insurer wouldnt place the 
additional driver on cover for the same reason as Mr Is original insurer. It apologised and 
explained that a new member of staff had made a mistake. It waived all its charges, provided 
training for the new member of staff and only charged Mr I a small amount for the time he 
was on cover. But Mr I remained unhappy so he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought Milestone 
should refund Mr Is time on cover and the additional charges he incurred. And that it should 
pay £250 compensation to cover some of the stress and inconvenience caused.
As Mr I didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As it is accepted that Milestone made an error in setting up Mr Is policy the only thing left to 
consider is whether the compensation and redress offered is fair. So I will focus on this in my 
decision.
Milestone should have looked to give Mr I some compensation when it first realised its error. 
Unfortunately, mistakes happen but it should have realised the impact this was having on Mr 
I at the time. He has clearly been put to unnecessary stress and hassle in having to set up a 
new policy, incurring more admin fees and a slightly higher premium than his original policy.
As the investigator has explained the aim should be to put Mr I back into the position he 
should have been but for Milestones error. And Mr I would have just proceeded with his 
original policy had Milestone have made it clear to him it couldnt cover the additional driver 
as well. So any additional costs incurred should be covered by Milestone. 
I agree that Mr I should be paid compensation for the clear stress caused. I know Milestone 
think £250 is too high, while Mr I thinks he should be paid more. But Ive taken a step back 
and looked at matters as a whole. And I think £250 is a fair level of compensation, especially 
when you consider Mr I had to face the additional hassle of arranging cover and the potential impact on his livelihood. Mr I has also outlined how worried he was about all of this and the 
fact that he lost sleep, so I think £250 is a fair amount of compensation.
Mr I has also said he would have had another years no claims discount (NCD) had he have 
let the original policy run. But there was six months left to run and it wouldnt be fair on 
Milestone to guess what may or may not have happened during that time. And I think 
Milestone has acted more than reasonably in agreeing to waive Mr Is time on risk as it has 
said he was insured for this period.
As Milestone has agreed to refund Mr Is time on cover, I wont interfere with that. But it 
should pay Mr I £250 compensation and his additional £35 admin cost  plus interest in line 
with our usual approach for the time hes been without the money.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Milestone 
Insurance Consultants Limited to refund Mr Is brief time on cover and pay him £250 
compensation. It should also refund his admin costs (£35) and pay 8%simple interest from 
the time he paid the fee to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman