DRN-2082854
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited did not notify it about an 
increase in card payment processing and related charges.
What happened
S complained to WorldPay when it noticed in April 2020 that its charges for the processing of 
card payments and other services had been increased. It discovered that the increase had 
been applied from July 2019. 
WorldPay offered it new rates going forward. But it said that it had first tried to send an email 
to S in March 2019 but that this bounced back. It then wrote to S in a letter dated 1 May 
2019 setting out the new rates for processing and those relating to Payment Card Industry 
Data Security Standards.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and S refunded the 
difference in charges for one month with eight per cent simple interest. He said that although 
WorldPay had provided a copy of the letter it had generated for S it had not been able to 
show it was sent. He accepted the testimony of the director of S that it had not been 
received and said that mistakes can happen and given that the email was not delivered this 
letter was very important. But our investigator also said that S was receiving invoices on a 
monthly basis and that it was reasonable for it to notice the increase before it had 
complained. There was no evidence these charges were being applied incorrectly. 
He separately noted that S had contacted WorldPay about duplicate charges for terminal 
rental and about the customer service provided in calls. He told S that we could not look at a 
complaint about terminal rental as this was not a regulated activity for an agreement with a 
company: but that he had been told that the duplicate fees had been refunded. He said that 
WorldPay had not issued a response about a complaint about customer service and S would 
need to raise this with it first.
WorldPay maintained that it sent the letter, but it agreed to the resolution proposed and said 
it had already paid S a refund of £133.87 which included the interest. 
S did not agree. The director made a number of points to the investigator in a call Ive 
listened to. He said that he did not expect to be ripped off by a reputable company. He 
made no excuses for not checking invoices any earlier although did not think it should be 
necessary. But the increase in charges had been up to several hundred percent. He thought 
we should have reached a compromise relating to the time S had been paying the higher 
charges and that this was not his fault. This is not justice and we have sided with WorldPay. 
He wanted compensation of £5,000 for S and understood he had a good case. S is not in a 
position to take an organisation of the size of WorldPay to court and is relying on this service 
to represent it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to say that this service is impartial and provides informal dispute resolution. We 
dont regulate the activities of WorldPay or have any role in the way it does business. Where 
there is a dispute, we look at things on a balance of probabilities basis  that is to say what 
is most likely to have happened.
Our investigator reached a reasoned view about whether or not WorldPay sent the letter to 
S. Often we accept evidence of a generated letter at face value. But I can see that given the 
error with the initial email particular scrutiny about whether the replacement letter was sent 
was appropriate. Our investigator has spoken at length with the director and accepts his 
account that he did not receive the letter. There is always the possibility that it had got lost in 
the post and that wouldnt be the responsibility of WorldPay. Here he decided it had not been 
correctly sent which was at odds with what WorldPay had insisted. But not only has it now 
accepted the opinion it has already refunded the one month of higher charges 
recommended.
So, in light of all the evidence available Im going to adopt the finding that there was an error 
in sending the letter as most likely here too. 
I wouldnt look at whether the charges and the increase was reasonable because WorldPay 
was entitled to set its own tariff in line with the terms and conditions. And I can see that in 
the letter it intended for S to receive it explained the changes in processing charges and also 
the other charges relating to data security standards. I see no evidence that these were 
incorrectly applied.
The position of S is that these were significant increases and I think in itself this suggests 
that they ought reasonably to have been noticeable when applied. In the call with the 
investigator the director additionally said he assumed the charges were due to an increased 
volume of trade by card for S which tends to suggest that they were apparent. WorldPay 
says that it sends an invoice at the start of the month and debits charges on or around the 
eighteenth. Im satisfied that invoicing and then debiting charges on the new basis 
reasonably brought them to the attention of S.
WorldPay reviewed the charges when S contacted it through its customer loyalty team and 
made an offer to S relating to the charges going forward. I dont see it fairly needed to back 
date that to the time that the increase was applied. 
Putting things right
One month of the increase in charges has already been refunded with interest. I can 
understand that if this was the typical amount of increase per month then by April 2020 a 
significant amount of additional charges was at stake here for S. But Ive explained why I 
think that within a month this was reasonably apparent to S and on balance I consider that 
the resolution offered and already paid is reasonable. Having considered carefully what S 
has said I dont think there is fair basis to extend this further and I can appreciate that the 
director will be disappointed by this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and require WorldPay (UK) Limited to 
refund the difference between the new and old rate of charges for July 2019 with a payment 
of simple interest of eight percent per annum to the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman