DRN-2240449
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) did not 
carry out a review of his Section 32 pension policy in 1999/2000, as required under the 
Pension Review. Mr S says he was mis-sold the Section 32 policy and has lost out 
financially as a result. He thinks that Prudential is liable or jointly liable for his financial loss 
because of its actions.
What happened
Mr S was a deferred member of his former employers occupational pension scheme. He 
signed an application form to transfer the benefits from this occupational pension scheme 
to a Section 32 policy with Prudential in 1990. The name of the authorised financial 
intermediary was stamped on the section 32 policy application form. The stamp said it 
was a business, Ill refer to as Company A, and gave an address in London for it.
Prudential received a copy of Mr S section 32 application form, with a headed slip from 
Company A. Prudential was also sent a cheque for around £3,000. Company A asked 
Prudential to process Mr S application for the section 32 policy.
Mr S also had another pension policy with Prudential. Ill refer to this as his second 
Prudential policy This second Prudential policy was arranged through Prudential, 
seemingly acting as Mr S adviser. Prudential contacted Mr S about this second Prudential 
policy as part of the Pension Review. The Pensions Review was a review set up by the 
Securities and investment Board, the regulator at the time, to investigate the potential 
widespread mis-selling of personal pension schemes. 
As Prudential had, it seems, given Mr S advice in relation to this second Prudential policy, 
it carried out an assessment to see if Mr S had lost out financially because of the advice it 
gave him. Prudential agreed to provide him with some compensation in respect of this 
second Prudential policy. The mis-sale of this second Prudential policy does not form part 
of this complaint. 
Prudential didnt review Mr S Section 32 policy. When Mr S asked Prudential why it hadnt 
reviewed it, at the same time as reviewing his second policy, Prudential said it was 
because the Section 32 policy was not sold to Mr S by Prudential. It told him in November 
2000, he could contact the broker who sold him the policy to ask for a review.
I understand Mr S contacted Company A in 2018. He complained that following its 
involvement, and the transfer of his benefits to the Prudential Section 32 policy, he had lost 
out financially. Company A rejected his complaint because it said it had not given Mr S 
advice to transfer, the transfer had proceeded on an execution only basis. So, it said, it did 
not have to carry out a loss calculation under the Pensions Review because of this. Mr S 
referred his complaint against Company A about this to our service. This service 
considered Mr S complaint against Company A. One of our ombudsmen issued a decision 
concluding that Mr S had not brought his complaint to us within the time limits set out in the 
DISP rules. So, we did not have jurisdiction to investigate his complaint against Company 
A. Mr S complaint against Company A was closed. So, Mr S complaint against Company 
A also does not form part of this complaint. 
In 2020, Mr S complained to Prudential, that along with Company A, it was responsible for 
the losses hed suffered as a result of transferring out of his former employers occupational 
pension scheme, into the Section 32 policy, provided by Prudential. He also said that in its 
correspondence Prudential should have named the business Ive referred to as Company A 
as his advisers. He states that Prudential should have arranged for a Pension Review to be 
completed, either by contacting Company A or completing one itself. He said, as a result, 
Prudential was liable for any losses or unsuitable advice he was given.
Prudential consented to us dealing with Mr S complaint against it. So, it was not necessary 
for us to consider whether his complaint was made in time against Prudential. Our 
investigator therefore went on to issue a decision on the merits of Mr S complaint and did 
not uphold it. Mr S disagreed and so his complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made extensive representations, all of which I have read and considered when 
deciding this case. I mean Mr S no discourtesy by not repeating all of them here. I have set 
out below those that I consider most relevant in deciding this case.
Like our investigator, I think it worth repeating the different roles each business took on 
when the policy was sold, and the transfer made from Mr S occupational pension scheme 
to his Section 32 policy. Company A facilitated the transfer. Company A told this service it 
was done without advice, on an execution only basis. But, its not my role to assess that 
here. I know Mr S continues to dispute this. But, this complaint is about Prudentials actions. 
From the paperwork, I can see there was an intermediary here. The Section 32 application 
form specifically mentions Company A as that intermediary. So, I take it from that, that 
Prudential wasnt dealing with Mr S direct. And I cant see that Mr S has suggested that was 
the case. So, it seems clear to me that, Prudential was not acting as Mr S adviser when the 
Section 32 policy was taken out.
Mr S completed a Prudential form to apply for the Section 32 policy. So, it also seems 
clear to me that Prudential was the policy provider. So, Prudentials role was to provide 
the policy and run it in line with the terms and conditions of the product concerned, the 
Section 32 policy. Taking all of this into account, I cant see that Prudential was involved 
in providing Mr S with any advice at the time he took out the Section 32 policy. 
Im told Mr S wasnt contacted as part of the Pension Review and his Section 32 policy was 
not reviewed. What I need to consider here, is whether Prudential ought to have carried out 
a review of Mr S pension under the Pensions Review. Im satisfied that Prudential didnt do 
anything wrong here, as it was not Prudential that arranged or provided any advice in relation to the transfer. Its role was limited to providing the product that Mr S invested his 
pension money in. So, in those circumstances, under the terms of the Pensions Review, it 
was not Prudentials responsibility to arrange for there to be a review, or to arrange for 
another company, in this case Company A to conduct a review.
Mr S also complains that the wording used in Prudentials letter about the Pension Review 
led him not to contact Company A around that time. He believes that Prudential shouldve 
referred to the company Ive referred to as Company A, specifically by name. As a result, 
he considers that Prudential is directly responsible for his losses as he wouldve 
complained about his loss sooner, if he had been given clearer information. Like our 
investigator, I havent seen anything that leads me to the conclusion that in some way 
Prudential was responsible for Mr S not raising his complaint sooner. I can see from the 
email that Prudential didnt mention Company A by name. But it did provide factually 
correct information, telling Mr S that he should contact the broker if he wished to pursue 
matters. If Mr S didnt know who the broker was, he could have gone back to Prudential 
to clarify that. I cant see that he did that, at that time.
So, overall, I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong. Given its limited role here in 
relation to this Section 32 policy at the time of sale, it wasnt responsible for carrying out a 
Pensions Review. And I cant see that the information it provided Mr S with about how to 
follow up his concerns about the lack of Pensions Review, wouldve specifically caused 
Mr S not to be able to bring his complaint about Company A in time.
Taking all of this into account, I cant reasonably uphold Mr S complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint against The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman