DRN-3733523
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained about National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) handling 
of their warranty claim for defects in the heating and hot water system that served their 
property. In particular, Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that NHBC hasnt repaired the defects in 
the underground pipework which forms part of the heating system.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N are represented in their complaint by Mr K, who is also a representative for 
other owners and policyholders in the development who share Mr and Mrs Ns concerns. 
The background to this complaint is complex and well-known to the parties. So, instead of 
repeating it, Ive focused on providing a summary of the complexities of the heating system, 
mentioned in the evidence. And Ive also set out a brief timeline of the events relevant to this 
complaint, to provide context for the conclusions Ive reached in this decision. 
The communal heating and hot water system
Mr and Mrs N are the owners of a property in an estate comprised of 54 properties that were 
constructed between 2008 and 2011 (the development). A communal heating and hot water 
system was installed to service all of the properties in the development. A management 
company was set up on completion of the development to manage the common parts, 
including the communal heating system.
The system functioned by way of a District Heating Main (DHM) system comprised of a 
biomass boiler, back-up boiler and underground hot water pipe network. Heat from the DHM 
system was distributed into a Heating Interface Unit (HIU) installed in each property. In such 
a system, the boiler is usually programmed to maintain a target temperature in a thermal 
heat store. A series of insulated pipes distribute hot water underground to each individual 
property in the district heating scheme. The flow and return within each pipe are usually 
connected to a heat exchanger, such as the HIU, in each property.
In the period during which the communal heating and hot water system served the 
development, a significant number of issues were reported by the residents and the 
management company to NHBC. Works were carried out on NHBCs behalf to address the 
issues with the system until March 2018, when NHBC concluded the issues had been 
substantively resolved. This included the carrying out of detailed tests and investigations, 
replacing different components of the system (including the HIUs), and completing repair 
works to the system. 
A number of investigations were carried out into the issues with the pipework, such as the 
pooling of surface water in valve pits and other sections of the pipework. Those 
investigations revealed that some of the problems were caused by the design of other 
services in the development. For example, the existence of a gas membrane under the 
ground precluded the original installer of the pipework from burying pipes at a greater depth, 
and had a tendency trap ground water, which couldnt be drained due to capping in parts of 
the pipework system. 
The number of different contractors involved with the installation of the various components 
of the heating system, and then carrying out repairs, also added to the complexity. Different 
parts of the system were commissioned at different points in time and certificates were often 
provided by third party contractors directly to the property owners or the management 
company. 
Works carried out by NHBCs contractors following the 2014 resolution report benefitted from 
a six-year installation warranty. The parts that were replaced or repaired at this point had 
their own manufacturers warranties. As issues with the system continued to arise over time, 
it wasnt clear whether, or to what extent, they were new defects, problems with the repairs 
to the initial defect, failed parts, or the result of lack of appropriate maintenance and / or 
servicing. NHBC and its contractors, and the managing agent and owners, all expended 
significant resources of time and/or money, in trying to resolve the many issues with the 
communal heating system. In 2019, the management company (with the approval of the 
owners) decided to move the properties over to an alternative electric heating and hot water 
system. 
Mr and Mrs N have clarified that their complaint is limited NHBCs liability to repair the 
defects in the underground pipework. However, due to the interconnected nature of the 
central heating system, at times in this decision its been necessary for me to refer to other 
parts of the system. However, my decision will be limited to whether or not NHBC likely 
repaired the defects identified in the underground pipework to the extent needed to 
discharge its liability under the warranty.
To provide context for the findings Ive set out in the next part of this decision, Ive set out 
below a brief timeline of the key events relevant to this complaint: 
Timeline of key events
2008 to 2011  The 54 properties comprising the development were built.
July 2012  NHBC was first informed of problems with the communal heating and hot water 
system.  
22 October 2012  NHBCs first resolution report was issued, recommending the developer 
supply commission certificates and operating instructions to the homeowners and consider 
implementing recommendations in a September 2012 Energy Report.
23 November 2012  As the developer failed to comply with recommendations in the report, 
from this point, NHBC assumed the developers liability for the cost of tests, investigations or 
work in its place. NHBC appointed consulting engineers, who I will refer to as C, to carry out 
further investigations into the system.
31 January 2014  NHBC and C produced an updated resolution report with significantly 
more recommendations than were included in the earlier report and proceeded to carry out 
those works. 
23 October 2014  A pressure test certificate was issued by C which confirmed leaks in the 
pipework had been resolved.
5 January 2015  F, the supplier of the pipework, provided confirmation that NHBCs 
contractor had carried out all remedial work on the areas identified and the system was fully 
operational.16 February 2018  NHBC offered the management company £150,000 in settlement of the 
claim regarding the biomass boiler, which was ultimately accepted by the management 
company.
March 2018  NHBC handed the system back to the management company, following a 
period of providing fuel, and maintaining and servicing the biomass boiler and system.
June 2018  A jointly appointed independent expert, R, issued a report on the extent to 
which they thought NHBC had satisfied the recommendations in the January 2014 
recommendation report. 
November 2018  The supplier of the pipework, F provided a short report on the current 
issues with the pipework.
July 2019  The management company complained to NHBC and they issued a final 
response letter to Mr N confirming its decision to decline a claim he made regarding blocked 
pipework, filters and the loss of heating and hot water to his property.
August 2019  A significant leak occurred outside one of the properties in the development 
prompting the management company to move the remaining properties over to an 
alternative electrical heating and hot water system.
Mr and Mrs N came to our service because they were unhappy with NHBCs response to 
their complaint. Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued his first view not 
upholding the complaint on 4 July 2022 and provided the parties with the time to provide any 
response or further evidence. His second view was issued on 26 August 2022, also not 
upholding the complaint, which again, was followed by a period of time for the parties to 
provide any further arguments or information. 
Im reaching the same conclusion as our investigator. Given the opportunities the parties 
have had to provide their evidence on this complaint, I consider it appropriate to now issue a 
final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and I wont be 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision below, broken into 
subsections for ease of reference.
My role, the informality of this service, and considerations relevant to the available evidence
Before I explain the decision Ive reached, I think it helpful if I first clarify a few preliminary 
matters which are relevant to the way Ive come to my decision on this complaint.
As the parties may be aware, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute 
resolution service, established under Part XVI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 as a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved quickly and with minimum 
formality by an independent person). As the independent person, its my role to resolve this 
dispute by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case.
Both NHBC and Mr and Mrs N have told me that there is a vast amount of information that could be provided, to support their respective arguments, in relation to this warranty claim. 
The lengthy period of time during which works have been undertaken, and the number of 
claims that have been made on the warranties for properties in the development, among 
other factors, have contributed to the extensive records. I am confident that the parties have 
had the opportunity to provide all relevant information that is available and in response to the 
two views issued by the investigator.
Given the time that has passed since the section two claim was first made, some records 
can no longer be provided, for example, particular commissioning certificates issued by third 
parties. So, while there is a large amount of evidence to consider, the evidence is also 
incomplete. Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory or inconsistent, Ive made my 
decision based on what I think more likely than not happened, applying the standard of proof 
of the balance of probabilities.
Id finally add that as an informal dispute resolution service we dont have the same 
extensive powers as the courts, for example, to compel third party witnesses to provide 
evidence relating to the complaint. However, if Mr and Mrs N dont accept my decision on 
their complaint, their legal rights will not be affected and they will be free to seek to pursue 
the resolution of their complaint elsewhere, for example in the Construction and Technology 
Court.
What is NHBC liable for under the warranty terms and conditions?
When Mr and Mrs Ns property was sold to them by the developer, NHBC issued a warranty 
for their property. The warranty also provided cover for their liability in relation to the 
common parts of the development which they are legally obliged to share responsibility for 
cost and upkeep with the other owners in the development. The common parts are defined 
in the warranty as including the heating system. The warranty didnt guarantee there 
wouldnt be any defects in the property or development, but it meant that any defects which 
were notified to the developer and/or NHBC within the first two years after completion of the 
property, would be resolved. Also, any damage caused by a defect in specific parts of the 
property or common parts, found in years three to ten after the property was completed, 
would be fixed. 
The management company first contacted NHBC on behalf of Mr and Mrs N, and other 
owners, about a number of problems theyd experienced with the heating system in 
June 2012. The issues left residents without heating or hot water on numerous occasions. 
The problems included leaks, blockages, failure of various component parts and, eventually, 
the total failure of the biomass boiler. NHBC agreed that some of the identified issues were 
defects and recommended the developer repair them. When the developer (referred to as 
the Builder in the warranty terms) didnt comply with NHBCs recommendation, NHBC 
agreed to take over liability from the developer in November 2012. 
The key issue in dispute between the parties is whether or not NHBC discharged its liability 
under the warranty to repair the defects in the communal heating system, and more 
particularly, the underground pipework.
In coming to my decision on this complaint, Ive first considered the terms of the building 
warranty to decide whether, on the balance of probabilities, NHBC complied with its 
obligations to Mr and Mrs N, as detailed in the warranty terms and conditions. 
As with most warranties and insurance policies, the Buildmark warranty doesnt cover 
everything that might go wrong with a property or development. In the first two years it 
covers Defects or Damage and in years three to ten it covers Damage caused by a Defect. 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim was made in the first two years of the period of cover provided by the warranty, so their initial claim was covered by section two of the warranty. 
Part 1 of Section two of the warranty terms and conditions, requires the Builder to: Within a 
reasonable time, at its own expense, in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with 
NHBC Requirements,put right or repair any Defect or Damage notified to it during the 
relevant notification period. 
Part 2 of Section two of the warranty terms and conditions details NHBCs obligations, and 
says, 1) We will pay you the Cost of any test, investigation or work that is required by a 
Resolution Report that you accept in full, which the Builder does not complete in a 
workmanlike manner and in accordance with NHBC Requirements within the time set in the 
Resolution Report. Alternatively, we may at our option arrange to get that test, investigation 
or work done at our expense.
Defect has a specific meaning attributed to it in the policy terms and conditions. It is defined 
as a breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed by or 
acting for the Builder. This is important because it provides more limited cover than would be 
available if the normal meaning of the word defect was used. 
The warranty also contains a number of limitations on NHBCs liability to carry out works, 
and says NHBC wont be liable for the following (among other things): 
The effects of wear and tear, neglect or failure to do appropriate maintenance; and
The effects of dampness, condensation or shrinkage not resulting from a Defect.
As the Defects were notified under section 2 of the warranty, NHBCs initial liability to repair 
the defect needs to be considered by reference to what was detailed in the relevant 
resolution report (31 January 2004), so Ive next considered the work NHBC was liable to 
undertake, as detailed in that resolution report. 
NHBC appointed C, to investigate the Centralised Boiler Plant and DHM installation on its 
behalf. Following their investigations, C and NHBC prepared the January 2014 resolution 
report, which detailed a large number of recommendations in relation to the central heating 
system. However, as this complaint only relates to the underground pipework, Ive only set 
out below the recommendations included in the resolution report, which relate to the 
underground pipework:
Repair and reinstatement of the leaking district heating pipework both above and below 
ground including the installation of thermal insulation to meet the manufacturers 
requirements. Pressure test the completed works and re commission the whole 
installation to meet the design requirements.
Install Valve Jackets as originally specified.
Install pipework identification in accordance with BS 1710:2001 for building services 
installations.
Replace all unapproved pipework fittings associated with the F 600 pipe with 
manufacturer endorsed products. The pipework shall be tested to 1  times the working 
pressure following remedial works.
The parties disagree on the extent to which NHBC carried out the works required to 
discharge its liability to repair the pipework, as detailed in the resolution report. So, Ive next 
considered the evidence and arguments submitted by the parties in relation to that. While I wont refer to each and every point raised by the parties, I have given careful consideration 
to all of the information that Ive been provided. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, rather, it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, and my role in answering the crux of the complaint 
and the key issues I consider relevant to its outcome. 
On the one hand, NHBC have said that significant investigations into the heating system had 
been undertaken, including pneumatic and hydraulic testing, thermal imaging, listening 
devices and sniffers which discovered a number of leaks. NHBC added that those leaks 
were subsequently repaired by their contractors where they occurred. Once the DHM 
integrity was reinstated, pressure testing was performed at 5bar which passed, confirming 
that there were no leaks occurring to the DHM. NHBC concluded that the system had been 
working and maintained up until the point that it handed the maintenance over to the 
management company in March 2018.
However, Mr and Mrs N believe there were still problems with the heating system when it 
was handed back to the management company. In support of their position, Mr and Mrs N 
have provided a report from a jointly appointed independent expert, who Ill refer to as R, 
dated June 2018 and a report from the supplier of the pipework, F, who inspected the 
pipework system in November 2018, to provide R with a response to some questions raised 
in its report. Mr and Mrs N argue that the two reports provide conclusive evidence of NHBCs 
failure to discharge its liability regarding the pipework, under the warranty.
Ive considered the evidence with regard to the following three periods: January 2014 to 
23 October 2014 (the date of resolution report up to the final pressure test confirming works 
were completed) (the first period); October 2014 to November 2018 (the period following the 
pressure test certificate to the date that the reports were issued by R and F) (the second 
period); and November 2018 to August 2019 (when the last of the properties in the 
development were moved across to an electrical heating and hot water system following a 
major leak at a property in the development) (the third period). 
First period: January 2014 to October 2014
NHBC have said that the works necessary to satisfy the recommendations in relation to the 
pipework, as detailed in the January 2014 resolution report, were completed near the end of 
2014. Where unapproved fittings had been identified, NHBC said theyd been replaced and 
pressure testing was satisfactorily completed. Ive seen a copy of a pressure test certificate 
issued on 23 October 2014, confirming that between the DHM back to the Boiler House, a 
24-hour hydraulic test was carried out at 5Bar, by a 5Bar Hydraulic Water Pump, and no 
leaks were detected. F, the supplier of the pipework, investigated the pipework on several 
occasions, and while certain issues were identified, he confirmed in a 2015 email that 
NHBCs contractors had carried out remedial work on all the areas identified and the system 
was now fully operational.
But, Mr N has said that the pressure test only confirmed that at that moment in time, there 
were no leaks in the system. He believes all of the issues hadnt been satisfactorily resolved, 
so the pressure test certificate was not confirmation that the resolution report 
recommendations had been met. He says that the only reasonable evidence of NHBCs 
liability being discharged would be confirmation that all of the pipework had been installed in 
accordance with manufacturers specifications together with a commissioning certificate. In 
Mr Ns view, confirmation from F that the system was fully operational wasnt enough.
However, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the owners had raised any other issues with 
the pipework at that time, which NHBC had ignored. So, based on the testing carried out at 
the time, and the email from F in 2015, I can only conclude that NHBC had likely fulfilled the 
recommendations of the January 2014 resolution report with regard to the pipework  at this stage. 
Second period: October 2014 to November 2018
Aside from a list of individual leaseholder complaints, which mainly relate to issues with the 
HIUs, limited evidence of other issues with the heating system arising, following the 
2014 works, has been provided. 
In March 2018, NHBC handed over the DHS to the management company. NHBC says at 
that time the system had been regularly maintained and was in working order. It agreed to 
investigate any further concerns raised under the certificate of repair following the 
completion of works by their contractors but said it would need to be satisfied that the regular 
maintenance had been carried out by the management company and owners since then. 
NHBC also said that up to the point that the system was handed over to the management 
company, C had been monitoring the water usage over a significant time with little evidence 
of any leaks showing, suggesting no leaks were occurring. 
However, as NHBC and the management company jointly commissioned R to provide an 
independent review of the remedial works that had been carried out I think its reasonable to 
conclude that some problems with various elements of the DHS likely continued throughout 
this period.
Both parties are familiar with the content of the reports issued by R and F, so Im not going 
to refer to the findings in detail. Rather, Ill summarise what I think the reports tell us about 
the state of the pipework and the extent to which NHBC had met the requirements of the 
resolution report, or otherwise, during this time.
Ive reviewed a copy of Rs report, which includes comments and responses from NHBCs 
contractor, C. I understand that Cs comments were also shared with R. There are 
comments in the report that invite further comment and clarification. For example, when 
discussing insultation, R said that, following previous investigations, identified sections of 
pipework had been insulated, however, it wasnt clear whether more uninsulated pipework 
existed within the system. Similarly, in relation to unapproved fittings, R said they understood 
unapproved fittings in exposed sections of the pipework had been replaced, however, R 
speculated that there could be non-approved fittings in other parts of the systems. But I note 
that no further discussion or clarification was obtained after the report was issued. 
R's report confirmed that having tested water in valve pits, it was clear that it wasnt water 
from within the pipes, so didnt provide evidence of current leaks. Comments were made 
about efficiency and water usage, which C challenged, however, those issues also werent 
ultimately agreed on or resolved.
There were two recommendations included in the report, relevant to the pipework. 
Recommendation 3 said the heat network should be replaced, in accordance with the 
manufacturers specification. C responded to this by saying that the management company 
had agreed the scope of works with NHBC, back in 2014, based on advice from F, the 
supplier of the pipework, following a site visit. It therefore wasnt appropriate to redefine the 
scope of works necessary to meet the recommendations in the resolution report, some four 
years later. 
Recommendation 4 said that the situation of pipework and valves being submerged in water 
and drainage needed to be remedied by works carried out to the manufacturers 
requirements. However, C responded to say that the gas membrane (which precluded the 
original pipework installer from burying the pipes at a greater depth) has a tendency to trap 
ground water, which is why standing water developed within some inspection and valve pits, and it wasnt possible to drain due to capping. 
In my view, the preceding examples demonstrate that Rs report provided a starting point for 
resolving any outstanding issues, but the report itself contained further questions, and Cs 
comments highlighted areas where it wouldnt be possible to implement Rs 
recommendations or wasnt appropriate.
Also, there were some concerns expressed in the report about what might happen in the 
future. However, a warranty is designed to respond to damage or defects that have arisen. It 
doesnt cover events that may occur in the future. So, while its possible (as the entire pipe 
network wasnt excavated) that non-approved fittings remained in the system, the warranty, 
in years 3 to 10, would only provide cover for remedial works, should damage caused by a 
defect occur, during the term of the warranty.
In any event, the dialogue about the outstanding issues seems to have stopped here. I think 
because the management company had likely decided by then to pursue the implementation 
of an alternative hot water and heating system, which I will comment further on later in this 
decision. The management company did seek comment from F in response to the report, 
which Ill turn to next, however, that also didnt provide conclusive answers to their 
outstanding concerns.
In an attempt to provide some clarification on some of the issues included in Rs report, the 
management company asked F to come and inspect the pipework in November 2018 
(approximately 10 years after the system had been installed). The person from F who 
attended was there to provide a view on the current state of the pipework, but also to provide 
a quotation for remedial works required. He commented that the installation went against 
many of Fs recommendations. He also criticised the insulation of the pipes, the lack of end 
caps and the burial levels of the pipes. He summarised the installation as being a catalogue 
of errors.
In response to his report, NHBC sought comments from the employee at F who inspected 
and gave advice on the pipework back in 2014. He said that the gas membrane precluded 
the original installer from burying at a greater depth. He also said that a structural 
engineered solution was employed to roadway crossings where the buried depth was 
identified as insufficient. He observed that the comments from his colleague were based on 
their current product range, some of which were new since the works had been carried out 
and he was of the view that some of the comments related to the aesthetics, rather than the 
engineering. 
The evidence on the state of the pipework at this time is further clouded by comments in an 
email from F to the management company, dated February 2019 in which F said, It has 
been decided whilst attending the last site visit..the reason for the lack of efficiency 
within your district heating system was due to the HIUs that had been recommended and 
installedIt became apparent that it was not the F district heating pipes that are also 
installed within the residential project, as first thought.. One reason for not abolishing the 
district heating network, given in the email was that the pipe network is already installed and 
working to how it should be. Later F says, I have mentioned that the pipe system is 
currently performing as we would expect it to, its losing less than one degree Celsius from 
the plant to the index point / last property. F did say that there were issues he would expect 
can only deteriorate over time, including pipes being buried under roads at incorrect depths. 
After considering this evidence, Im not persuaded that it demonstrates NHBC more likely 
than not, failed to implement the recommendations of the January 2014 resolution report, 
with regard to the pipework. While the reports make observations and suggest reasons why 
various issues arose with the pipework, they dont persuade me that one explanation is more persuasive than another. Before Im able to decide that NHBC have done something wrong 
here, I need to be persuaded of that on the balance of probabilities, and Im not. 
Third period: November 2018 to August 2019
Following the handover of the system by NHBC back to the management company the next 
evidence Ive considered, relating to problems with the pipework is an email exchange 
between Mr N and NHBC in February 2019. 
Mr N contacted NHBC about below ground pipework into his property being blocked up by 
detritus, and blocking his HIU filters, leading ultimately to a complete failure of hot water and 
heating in the property. NHBC queried whether there had been a system shut down because 
in their experience, that had often caused problems with detritus entering the system. Mr N 
said that there was a local power cut which caused the main boiler to shut down. He agreed 
that the power cut and resulting cooling down and heating up of the DHM had caused 
residual dirt in the system to re-mobilise. However, Mr N remained of the view that despite 
numerous attempts by NHBC to flush the system to clear the blockages, the problem 
remained, so NHBC had never resolved the issues. 
NHBC on the other hand, denied liability and said it wouldnt be responsible for wear and 
tear or defects or damage caused because normal maintenance or servicing wasnt carried 
out. NHBC added that if repairs fail because theyve been affected by a new defect, NHBC 
would only be liable if the new defect was covered by the warranty. And if a claim was being 
made for poor workmanship under the certificate of repair (issued after works were 
completed by NHBCs contractor) it would only be liable to address any issues if it could be 
shown that regular maintenance and servicing had been carried out since the repairs had 
been completed. 
Then, in August 2019, a contractor on site noticed a large water leak outside one of the 
properties and NHBC were informed that the underground water pipes integrity had failed 
leading to a substantial leak. Before sending its own claims assessor to assess the damage, 
NHBC asked for the maintenance and servicing records for the DHS, which werent 
provided. However, the management company said that the leak was proof of the 
inadequate nature of the installation, even after the repairs had been carried out by NHBCs 
contractors. They also provided a letter from a heating engineer whod attended the site to 
investigate the leak which explained that it was only when the water supply from the heat 
main was turned off that the leak stopped. He therefore concluded that the only resolution for 
the issue would be to excavate and replace the faulty heat main, which he acknowledged 
would be a costly and disruptive solution. 
During this period, complete maintenance and servicing records werent provided by the 
management company to NHBC. And, Mr N accepted that not all residents followed the 
recommendations to maintain the internal parts of the system. But Mr N also queried how it 
would be possible for residents or the management company to maintain pipework that was 
buried underground. While it may have been difficult to maintain underground pipes, the 
interconnected nature of the central heating system would indicate that lack of servicing of 
one part of the system, could likely impact another part of the system. So, although it could 
be the case that the August 2019 water leak was due to inadequate installation or repair by 
NHBC or its contractors, it could equally have been due to lack of servicing of the system, 
wear and tear, or it could have been a new defect. I also note that by August 2019 most of the residents at the development had moved over to 
an electric heating system. So, the management companys solution to the problems caused 
by the leak was to decommission the final few houses still using the DHS. Mr N 
acknowledged in his submissions that some properties didnt complete routine maintenance 
on other components of the DHS while waiting for the electric heating systems to be 
installed, as it would have constituted an unnecessary cost to the residents. He also said 
there were significant failures of many components as the system was wound down. These 
factors also could have caused or contributed to the August 2019 leak. So, while its 
accepted a serious leak occurred, the evidence doesnt persuade me that its more likely 
than not, the leak was caused by any action or inaction on NHBCs part. 
In conclusion, Mr and Mrs N believe that NHBC has failed to discharge its liability under the 
warranty with regard to the pipework as no commissioning certificates were provided and 
they believe the issues that continued to arise with the district heating system, after NHBC 
handed it back to the management company, are further evidence of this failure.
However, after carefully considering all the available evidence, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint. Testing that was carried out after the recommendations were implemented in 
2014 indicated that the works most likely had been completed. NHBC ceased to be involved 
with the system from March 2018, and the first major issue which arose was fifteen months 
later, in August 2019. At that time the management company had already moved most of the 
properties across to an alternative heating and hot water system and the old system appears 
to have not been maintained during this transition period. It was clearly a complex central 
heating system which was costly to maintain. And despite the time and resource NHBC 
expended, in remedying defects with the system, problems continued to arise. Its 
understandable that the management company and owners made the decision to move to 
an alternative system, however, it doesnt follow that NHBC should be responsible for the 
cost of the new system. 
While a number of different explanations have been proposed by Mr and Mrs N and the 
management company, as to why the district heating system, including the pipework, was 
ultimately deemed to be unfit for the development, I havent been persuaded that more likely 
than not, this was due any failure by NHBC to satisfy the requirements set out in the January 
2014 resolution report and discharge its liability under the warranty. I therefore do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman