DRN-3983352
The complaint
Mr P complains about errors and delays by Barclays bank UK PLC after he attempted to 
complete an international transfer. 
What happened
Last year, Barclays wrote to Mr P and explained it intended to close his account as hes not 
resident in the UK. Mr Ps explained that he responded to Barclays with letters that were 
sent by registered post. Mr P followed up with Barclays over the phone but has explained he 
was told the letter had been lost by the business. 
Mr P attempted to complete the transfer over the phone. Whilst he was able to complete the 
security verification process, Barclays Voice ID system failed to identify him so the transfer 
wasnt immediately processed. Mr Ps explained this issue occurred more than once. The 
transfer was ultimately completed over the phone using account details provided by Mr P on 
24 August 2022. 
Mr Ps explained the funds werent received in the beneficiary account as expected so he 
tried to get back in touch with Barclays to find out what had happened. Mr Ps advised that 
there were further issues with Barclays Voice ID system when he called which impacted how 
he was treated. 
Mr P also contacted the beneficiary bank (E) to try and trace the funds. It later came to light 
that an intermediary bank Ill call D had been used to send the funds on to the beneficiary 
bank (E). But the transfer couldnt complete and D was used to transfer the funds back to 
Barclays. Mr P has sent us emails from E that gives a copy of the instruction D used to send 
the funds back. And they show the funds were returned to Barclays in New York, not 
Barclays UK. 
The funds were ultimately returned to Barclays in the UK on 21 September 2022 and were 
applied to Mr Ps account on 29 September 2022. Barclays has confirmed there were 
administrative errors that delays the transfer being added to Mr Ps account. 
Mr Ps explained he was concerned about his missing funds so took the decision to visit the 
UK and attend his branch. But when Mr P visited the branch, he was told staff couldnt assist 
as he was asking about an international payment. Mr P raised a complaint while in branch. 
Barclays issued a final response on 25 October 2022 and apologised for the service 
provided to Mr P. Barclays confirmed it lost Mr Ps letter and that its Voice ID had failed to 
identify him on various occasions due to a known systems issue. But Barclays said the error 
in terms of the transfer Mr P had instructed had been caused by the account details 
provided. Barclays accepted it had delayed paying the funds back into Mr Ps account until 
29 August 2022. Barclays offered Mr P £100 to apologise. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Ps complaint and asked Barclays to pay an increased settlement of £400. Barclays 
agreed, but Mr P asked to appeal. In response to the investigator, Mr P said the increased 
settlement didnt reflect the service provided, delays and poor communication from Barclays 
or the costs he incurred travelling to the UK. As Mr P asked to appeal, his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I can understand why Mr P is upset at the way his transfer was handled. Mr Ps initial letter 
with instructions for Barclays was lost. And when Mr P tried to call Barclays over the course 
of several weeks he experienced delays, difficulties completing the identification process and 
problems with the Voice ID system. Im satisfied that Mr P was caused unnecessary 
inconvenience when trying to arrange the transfer. 
With that said, I think its reasonable to note that Barclays says the transfer didnt go through 
as the destination account information provided by Mr P wasnt right. And when Mr P made 
Barclays aware the transfer funds hadnt been received it went on to chase the beneficiary 
bank for updates and information. Ive looked at the various messages Barclays sent the 
beneficiary bank during the period in question and I can see it regularly asked questions and 
chased confirmation concerning the location of the missing funds. 
Further, the information Mr P has supplied from E shows that when D, the intermediary 
bank, returned the funds they were initially sent back to a subsidiary of Barclays in the US. 
As a result, D had to arrange for the transfer funds to be retrieved from Barclays in the US 
and returned to Barclays in the UK. I understand Mr P feels Barclays ought to have been 
able to arrange this internally. But Im satisfied it was reasonable for the intermediary bank to 
arrange the transfer back to Barclays UK in the circumstances. So whilst I agree Barclays 
were responsible for avoidable delays, Im satisfied there were other delays it didnt cause. 
Mr Ps told us he took the decision to visit the UK to try and locate the missing funds. But I 
havent seen anything that shows Barclays asked Mr P to visit a branch in the UK or that it 
would cover his costs for doing so. And when Mr P visited the branch he found staff there 
werent able to assist. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but, taking everything Ive seen into 
account, I havent found grounds to tell Barclays to cover his travel costs. 
I agree with Mr P that the service provided by Barclays was poor at times. Barclays has 
accepted it lost correspondence and its Voice ID system didnt work as it should have. And I 
can see Mr P wasnt always called back or contacted by Barclays as promised. In addition, 
Barclays received the funds back around a week before they were actually paid into his 
account. I agree with Mr P that the £100 offered in Barclays final response doesnt reflect 
the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator asked Barclays to increase the settlement to £400. Ive considered the 
service provided to Mr P, the delays he experienced and full circumstances of his complaint. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that £400 is a fair reflection of the impact caused by Barclays actions and the service provided. As Im satisfied Barclays has agreed to pay a settlement 
that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not increasing the award further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay him 
£400 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman