DRN-3603460
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains about the conditions National Westminster 
Bank Plc imposed when restructure existing borrowing.
Mrs G, who is a director of H, brings the complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
I understand that everyone agrees:
Mrs G discussed her businesses borrowing with various people at NatWest, and 
primarily with a NatWest Relationship Director.
NatWest declined Mrs Gs original request to extend Hs loan.
In July 2021, the Relationship Director emailed Mrs G to say NatWest was prepared 
to offer a loan extension to H after all. His email set out the loan amount, term, 
interest rate, fees, and the monthly repayment amount. His email then included a few 
blank lines, then had a heading Conditions under which five conditions were set out 
 including the removal of overdrafts for two other companies Mrs G is associated 
with. He then asked Mrs G to let him know if she found his proposal acceptable.
Mrs G replied to the Relationship Directors email to say All sounds very good. 
NatWest then produced a loan document, and Mrs G signed it shortly afterwards.
NatWest removed the overdraft facilities for the other two businesses. Mrs G 
complained, and said she had not realised the conditions for Hs loan extension 
included the removal of the overdrafts. She explained that she had missed the 
conditions in the email, and she wouldnt have agreed to them if she had seen them.
Mrs G asked NatWest to reconsider, but it was not prepared to do so. However, it did 
pay £100 in respect of customer service issues which had led to a delay in Mrs Gs 
receiving some reports.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but he did not uphold it. Briefly, he said:
The conditions NatWest chose to impose were a commercial business decision, and 
based on its risk appetite at the time.
Whilst he accepted that the Relationship Directors July 2021 email contained a gap 
between the amount of the monthly loan repayment and the conditions, he didnt 
think the gap was large  and he would have expected the recipient of the email to 
read it all the way to the end. 
NatWest has said the first of the conditions in the email was satisfied almost 
immediately after it was sent, which suggests Mrs G did read the conditions. But 
even if she didnt read them, he thinks it was fair for NatWest to take Mrs Gs email 
All sounds very good email as acceptance of those conditions. 
Mrs G did not accept our investigators conclusions. She said NatWest already had sufficient 
security for Hs loan, and there was no need for it to remove the other businesses 
overdrafts. 
She also said I am advised that legally such an offer should have been formally in writing 
and certainly not on one email that was mis-read by me and again that was the only ever 
communication that referenced the overdraft being removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to uphold it. I am sorry to further disappoint Mrs G, but I 
have reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I acknowledge that Mrs G believes NatWest already had sufficient security for the borrowing, 
and that it had no need to add conditions regarding her businesses overdrafts. I also 
acknowledge that NatWest says the original request to extend Hs loan was outside its risk 
appetite, and that it was only prepared to extend the loan under the conditions set out in its 
Relationship Directors July 2021 email.
It is not unusual for banks to disagree with business owners about the risks associated with 
their businesses. But the decision as to whether to offer a loan, and the terms on which to 
offer it, is a matter for the banks commercial discretion. I dont see anything here to suggest 
NatWest has exercised its commercial discretion illegitimately, and so it would not be 
appropriate for me to interfere.
I note that the Relationship Directors July 2021 email both opened and closed in an entirely 
standard fashion. It opened with Good afternoon [Mrs Gs first name], and closed with the 
word Regards followed by the Relationship Directors name and signature block. I think the 
Relationship Director would reasonably have expected Mrs G to have read the whole of his 
message, and I dont think he was trying to hide anything.
I accept that his email did contain a gap of a few lines between his description of the loan 
terms and his summary of the conditions, but I dont think that gap makes a material 
difference. Mrs G has provided me with a copy of that email, and on the copy the loan terms 
finish towards the bottom of one page and the conditions start at the top of the next page. It 
is very unfortunate if Mrs G only read one of the pages, but I do not see anything unfair 
about the way in which NatWest communicated the terms of the loan it was prepared to offer 
H, nor do I see anything unfair about the way it communicated the conditions under which it 
was prepared to offer that loan. 
In the circumstances, I think NatWest was entitled to assume that Mrs Gs All sounds very 
good email was both an acknowledgement of the terms and conditions it had offered, and 
an expression of a desire to proceed with Hs loan extension on that basis. 
Overall, my opinion is that NatWest has acted fairly.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman