DRN-2438628
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a claim they made for their son under their critical illness policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs son (who Ill call A) was born in 2018. When A was born, he was diagnosed 
with Tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) and absent pulmonary valve syndrome (APVS)  both of 
which are congenital heart defects, meaning they were present at birth. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs C bought a joint critical illness policy with L&G. The policy started on     
1 July 2019 and included childrens critical illness cover. 
In August 2019, A had open heart surgery with median sternotomy (surgery to divide the 
breastbone). Mr and Mrs C made a claim for this operation under their L&G policy. But L&G 
declined the claim because it said the medical evidence showed this operation was for 
congenital heart defects, and its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) had agreed. And the policy 
excluded any childrens critical illness claims for congenital conditions. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with L&Gs decision. L&G treated this as a complaint, but didnt 
uphold the complaint or change its position. 
So Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to our service. They said As surgery was to correct 
a number of heart issues, some of which were present at birth. But that shortly before the 
surgery, A was diagnosed as needing a reduction for enlarged arteries. They said enlarged 
arteries hadnt been present at birth and A needed surgery for this regardless of his other 
congenital issues. They said A could have had a separate median sternotomy for his 
enlarged arteries, but it was decided to do everything in one surgery. Mr and Mrs C said the 
policy covered children who needed a median sternotomy, and the congenital exclusion 
didnt apply as A hadnt had enlarged arteries at birth. Mr and Mrs C said the consultant L&G 
obtained a report from hadnt actually seen A. 
Mr and Mrs C later reiterated to our service that they werent claiming for a condition but for 
a median sternotomy, which is a procedure and not a condition. They said the policy 
exclusions didnt apply to this and the policy didnt say the reason for the median sternotomy 
had to be considered. And they explained the treating consultant said A needed this surgery 
after he was a year old, and had said it wasnt a problem for A at birth. 
After obtaining medical opinion from As treating consultant paediatric cardiac surgeon and 
asking L&G to comment on it, our investigator thought L&G had acted fairly. She said the 
treating consultants opinion was that As enlarged arteries were a late feature of his APVS, 
the congenital condition hed been diagnosed with at birth. And that L&Gs CMO also 
thought the issues A underwent the median sternotomy for were all a consequence of a 
congenital condition. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, saying A had 
developed enlarged arteries later, and after the policy was in place. And that hed needed a 
median sternotomy for this, an operation which was itself covered under the policy. As 
Mr and Mrs C requested, their complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging that this must have been a very worrying and upsetting 
time for Mr and Mrs C, and I understand why this claim and complaint is so very important to 
them. However, I wont be asking L&G to do anything further here. I know this will be a great 
disappointment for Mr and Mrs C, so Ill explain my reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs son was born with very serious congenital heart 
conditions  the treating consultant has confirmed these as ToF and APVS. Mr and Mrs C 
say they arent claiming for As congenital heart conditions. Instead, theyve said that A 
developed enlarged arteries after he was born and after he was covered by the policy. And 
that the operation he needed for his enlarged arteries, a median sternotomy, is in and of 
itself covered by the policy and the policy doesnt say the reason for the median sternotomy 
must be considered. 
Ive thought about the policy terms and conditions. The policy critical illness definition 
Mr and Mrs C are claiming under is Open heart surgery - with median sternotomy. The 
undergoing of surgery requiring median sternotomy (surgery to divide the breastbone) on the 
advice of a consultant cardiologist to correct any structural abnormality of the heart. And the 
exclusion L&G is relying on is We will not pay a claim ifThe relevant childs condition was 
present at birth.
Mr and Mrs C say under the policy, the surgery itself is covered with no need to consider 
why it was needed. Open heart surgery with median sternotomy is one of the things covered 
by the policy. But its reasonable to think surgery is carried out for medical reasons, not for 
its own sake. And the wider policy terms and conditions still apply to any claim made for one 
of the policys defined critical illnesses  it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to only consider the 
specific critical illness definition in isolation from the rest of the policy.
In this case As surgery was carried out to correct a number of heart issues. Its not disputed 
that some of these were congenital issues, but the surgery was also for the enlarged arteries 
which Mr and Mrs C say A later developed and which he wasnt diagnosed with until he was 
over a year old. But based on the medial evidence Ive been provided with, I think it was fair 
for L&G to decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
I say that because Ive seen that As treating consultant says [A] was born with a very rare 
form of Tetralogy of Fallot, which was in conjunction with Absent Pulmonary Valve 
syndrome. That means that the pulmonary Valve of [A]s heart was not functioning well, and 
it was both narrow and leaky. That resulted, as it usually does in such cases, in a 
progressive enlargement of the Pulmonary arteries. The treating consultant goes on to 
explain that As arteries werent dilated (enlarged) when he was born and would have dilated 
independently from his ToF. And that The dilation of the pulmonary artery is independent 
from the ToF, but a late feature of the absent pulmonary valve syndrome.
I think its reasonable to say that what the treating consultant is essentially saying here is 
that while As enlarged arteries didnt develop until later and were independent to his ToF, 
they were nonetheless still a feature of the congenital condition APVS that A was born with. 
For that reason, Im satisfied it was fair for L&G to conclude A underwent open heart median sternotomy surgery because of his congenital heart conditions, and that L&G has therefore 
fairly applied the policy exclusion for conditions present at birth. 
For this reason, Im not asking L&G to do anything further here, though I realise this isnt the 
outcome Mr and Mrs C had hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman