DRN-3620600
The complaint
Mr S complains that Cynergy Bank Limited didnt send him account maturity options.
What happened
Mr S says he opened a one-year Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Cynergy in 
September 2019 that matured the following year. He says he didnt receive maturity options 
and his money was automatically placed in a new one-year ISA. Mr S says he didnt receive 
confirmation of that and says the money should have been placed in a variable account that 
would have allowed access. He says he was unable to access his money. Mr S also 
complains about how his complaint was dealt with and says he was promised call backs 
from Cynergy that he didnt receive. He would like compensation.
Cynergy says the account terms and conditions say it will open a new fixed rate ISA on 
maturity if a customer doesnt provide alternative instructions. It says it wrote to Mr S prior to 
maturity with his options but didnt receive a response. It also says Mr S contacted it in April 
2021 some months after the new account was opened. Cynergy accepts it didnt deal with 
Mr S as it should when he raised the complaint, and has offered £150 compensation.
Mr S had brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator thought Cynergy had written to Mr S before the account 
maturity but accepted that Cynergy had been unable to provide a copy of the confirmation 
letter. The investigator explained that we couldnt consider complaints about complaint 
handling and thought the impact on Mr S was minimal as he didnt raise the issue with 
Cynergy until April 2021.
Mr S doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint and think that Cynergy has acted fairly. I make clear to Mr S that we cant consider 
complaints about complaint handling as it is not a regulated activity. In practice there can 
often be an overlap between a main complaint and how a complaint was dealt with. But Im 
satisfied that here there are two separate issues, namely the ISA issue in September 2020 
and the later complaint handling from April 2021 on. So, I am sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I 
cant consider the complaint handling part of his complaint and as Cynergys compensation 
offer is for that part of the complaint and unrelated matters to the ISA issue, then I dont 
intend to comment further. It is of course up to Mr S to decide if he wishes to accept that 
offer and can see the investigator has explained in some detail what our rules are about 
such matters.
The main complaint here in any event is the ISA maturity. I have looked carefully at Mr Ss 
account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to when the account was 
first opened in 2019. Those terms and conditions make clear that Cynergy will write to Mr S 
before account maturity with his options but in the absence of new instructions will move the 
money into a new ISA of nearest equivalence. Im satisfied that Cynergy did write to Mr S 
with his options in advance of the maturity and didnt receive instructions. So, I dont think 
Cynergy acted unfairly or made a mistake by taking the action it did and find it acted in line 
with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr S says he didnt receive the letter. I have made clear that I think it was 
correctly sent and I cant fairly hold Cynergy responsible for that as it is not responsible for 
the safe delivery of the mail. In any event I would have expected Mr S to have known the 
account was due to mature and the original account terms and conditions explained the 
process. I also appreciate Mr S says the money ought to have been placed into a different 
type of account, but I think Cynergy did what it said it would, which Mr S agreed to.
I accept Cynergy hasnt been able to provide a copy of the confirmation letter. I dont think I 
can conclude that the letter wasnt sent and think this was Mr Ss account to manage. I can 
see that Mr S contacted Cynergy in April 2021 about this issue and so I dont think there was 
any significant impact in any event. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Cynergy acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions 
and so I cant fairly conclude it made a mistake or acted unfairly. If Mr S wishes to accept the 
compensation offer, then that of course is a matter for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman