DRN-2508542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Zenith Insurance Plc (Zenith) unfairly handled a claim made on 
their motor insurance policy. 
  
What happened
In April 2019, Mr D was involved in a collision with another driver. A claim was made on Mr 
and Mrs Ds motor insurance policy held with Zenith. Their car was written off.
Based on its investigations, Zenith said itd settle the claim as Mr Ds fault. But Mr and Mrs D 
asked Zenith to reconsider. They felt the other driver was at fault. Mr and Mrs D said that 
Zenith hadnt looked at CCTV footage of the accident which they felt would exonerate Mr D.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Zenith. They were unhappy with its decision to accept liability. 
And they were unhappy that Zenith hadnt been in contact with them since theyd completed 
the accident report form. 
Zenith acknowledged that when Mr D first reported the incident he did let them know that 
CCTV of the incident would be available. But that it had failed to obtain this evidence. It also 
noted that the footage had been watched by the police whod been unable to attribute blame.
So Zenith felt that it had made the correct decision on liability. But it acknowledged that it 
had failed to obtain the CCTV footage. And it noted that thered been a lack of 
communication throughout its handling of the claim. So it offered £200 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied with this response. So they brought their complaint to this 
service. They explained that when Zenith accepted the third partys version of events, that 
led to financial implications for them. They noted that Mr D had been injured in the collision 
and now needed physiotherapy to help him recover. So they brought their complaint to this 
service.
 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He felt Zenith had acted 
correctly in establishing liability. And he noted itd settled without prejudice to allow Mr Ds 
personal injury claim to proceed. But he felt that the £200 compensation Zenith had paid to 
Mr and Mrs D didnt reflect the impact of the errors itd made during their claim. So he 
suggested that Zenith should pay Mr and Mrs D a further £150 compensation.
Zenith agreed with our investigator. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They felt strongly that a 
different decision wouldve been reached if CCTV evidence had been obtained. They asked 
for an ombudsmans review, so the complaints come to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Zenith acted in a fair and
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in its handling of the
claim. Its not my role to assess liability for an accident. Thats the role of the courts.
Under the terms of the policy Zenith has the discretion to take over, defend or settle claims 
as it feels appropriate. Its entitled to decide how the claim should be recorded based on the 
evidence it has. But I expect it to exercise that discretion in a fair and reasonable way. And 
that includes the expectation that an insurer will reasonably investigate a claim and consider 
the evidence available before making its decision on liability. 
Zenith acknowledges that it made its liability decision without receiving and considering the 
CCTV footage. But from what Ive seen, this wouldnt have changed the outcome for Mr and 
Mrs D. I note that the police viewed the footage and couldnt determine fault from it. 
Zenith has said that it made its liability decision after a full review of the claim and based on 
engineers evidence. It said that it wrote to Mrs D on 15 May 2020 to advise that the 
evidence of the damage to the third party vehicle does not support her version of events and 
that we had no option but to deal with the third party claim. It did this on a without prejudice 
basis. Zenith also said that itd be unable to defend the claim and couldnt therefore pursue it 
as non-fault.
Mrs D feels very strongly that Zenith hasnt considered how important the CCTV footage 
wouldve been in terms of establishing liability. She feels that had it seen the footage, it 
wouldnt have accepted liability.
Ive reviewed all of the details of the incident. And considered what Mr and Mrs D and Zenith 
have said. And unfortunately I dont feel theres enough evidence to say that Zenith 
shouldve made a different decision on who was liable. So Im not persuaded that in the end 
Zeniths liability decision was unfair, even though it didnt access the CCTV footage.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that Mr D is pursuing a claim for physical injuries but Zenith's 
decision on liability has jeopardized his attempts to seek redress from the third party insurers 
representing the other driver. But Zenith note that its decision was made on a without 
prejudice basis to ensure Mr and Mrs D could still pursue the personal injury claim with their 
solicitors. As this means the way the claim was settled cant be used in court as evidence of 
liability, Mr Ds personal injury claim can proceed unaffected. So Im not persuaded Zenith 
has done anything wrong here.
Compensation
Zenith has acknowledged:
that it failed to communicate with Mr and Mrs D during the course of the claim and,
that it failed to obtain the CCTV footage of the collision.
I can see that it didnt discuss their claim with Mr and Mrs D between June 2019 and May 
2020, when it informed them they would be held liable for the collision. Zenith did attempt to 
contact Mr Ds solicitor but had no response. I consider that as Zenith didnt hear from Mr 
Ds solicitor, it shouldve provided updates on the claim directly to Mr and Mrs D. 
I note that Zenith did try to obtain the CCTV footage after Mr and Mrs D raised their 
complaint. But that its not been successful.
Our investigator recommended that Zenith should pay Mr and Mrs D an additional £150 
compensation (making a total of £350) to adequately reflect the impact of the errors itd 
made during the claim. This included its poor communication with Mr and Mrs D and its 
failure to obtain the CCTV footage. 
  Putting things right
Zenith has paid Mr and Mrs D £200 compensation to date. Taking everything into account, I 
agree that an additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Zenith has 
caused Mr and Mrs D is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Zenith Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs D £150 additional compensation for 
distress and inconvenience it caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman