DRN-3004030
The complaint
Mr G complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his home insurance (contents) policy after his bicycle was stolen.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr Gs bicycle was stolen from the landing outside his flat. Mr G tried to make a 
claim under his home insurance (contents) policy with Gresham, but it was declined. 
Gresham said theft of the bicycle wasnt covered because it was taken from a part of the 
building that other people have access to.
Mr G raised a complaint with Gresham. He said his flat was in a self-contained tenement 
building with secure entry. He didnt think it was fair to apply the exclusion because he felt it 
was ambiguous and open to interpretation. He said the exclusion was clearly intended for 
situations where anyone could walk into a building that does not have secure entry. The 
building he lives in is only regularly accessible by the people who live there and have keys to 
get in not other people. The person who stole the bicycle wouldnt normally have had 
access to the part of the building it was stolen from.
Gresham maintained its position of declining the claim. It said the exclusion applied to others 
having access to the building and this included tenants or other keyholders.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought it was fair for 
Gresham to apply the exclusion and decline Mr Gs claim.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view. He said he still thought the policy wording 
wasnt clear. He would have understood if the building wasnt secure and the public had free 
access to it, but the thief did not. They had specifically entered the building unlawfully when 
they wouldnt normally have access. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Mr Gs insurance schedule shows that he hadnt taken out bike cover, which was an 
optional extra. Hes tried to claim for the theft of his bicycle under his contents cover.
In declining Mr Gs claim, Gresham has relied on the following exclusion:
theft if you live in a self-contained flat and the theft is from any part of the building that other 
people have access to:
Mr G says the wording is ambiguous. He says the only people who had access to where the 
bicycle was kept were residents and those who manage the property. He doesnt think they 
should fall under other people who have access to the building. 
I appreciate Mr G feels the exclusion shouldnt apply because the bicycle was likely to have 
been stolen by someone who did not normally have access to the building. He believes the 
thief gained access to the property with the sole purpose of stealing his bicycle. But you is 
defined in the policy as the person (or people) named on your schedule, their domestic 
partner and members of their family (or families) who are permanently living with them and 
their foster children who live with them. So, I think the policy wording makes it clear that 
other people includes anyone who doesnt live in the self-contained flat with the 
policyholder. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G, but I dont think it was unfair of Gresham to 
decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman