DRN-4143211
The complaint
Miss W complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss W was approved for one loan for £4,000 on 23 February 2022 for which she had to
repay interest of £2,361.56 making the total to pay £6,361.56. Miss W was due to make
36 monthly payments of £176.71 (just under £177) a month. Miss W has managed to repay
the amounts up to the records I have seen which stop in April 2023. But the loan account
Madison has sent to us shows me that she has had several returned or some of the 
payments have failed since February 2022. The loan is still within the three-year loan 
agreement.
After Miss W had complained in October 2022 and asked for a Subject Access Request
(SAR), then she received a final response letter (FRL) from Madison in December 2022. It
did not uphold her complaint and so Miss W referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service
in January 2023.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. His view was that Madison had known
about and had acknowledged the adverse credit history Miss W had when she applied for
the loan. But the checks it carried out were proportionate and so he did not think that the
complaint was one that ought to be upheld.
Miss W disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
On 29 June 2023 I issued a provisional decision giving reasons why I considered that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Since then both parties have responded promptly and both have agreed with my provisional 
decision findings.
In the circumstances I have set out here  in this final determination  my decision findings 
in the same terms and with the same reasoning as the one issued last week. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss W would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have
shown that Miss W wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss W and
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Miss Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Miss W. In
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan
wouldnt cause Miss W undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss W. Checks
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer,
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. As I have already explained, I issued a 
provisional decision last week and both parties have agreed to it. And so what follows here 
are my final decision findings int eh same terms and based on the same reasoning as my 
earlier provisional decision. 
The core of Miss Ws objection to Madisons loan approval was that in February 2022 when
she applied for the Madison loan, she was a single parent of three children, on benefits with
a recently discharged Debt Recovery Order (DRO) and three County Court Judgments
(CCJs) in her relatively recent past credit history and so it ought to have known this and not
lent to her.
Reviewing the information Miss W gave to Madison at the time she applied for the loan, she
gave a different set of circumstances  she was a single, fulltime employed person with no
dependents living at home with her parents. Her expenditure was less than her income and
so to Madison it looked as if she could afford the loan. 
Her credit search had revealed the poor history and revealed that she had very little current 
debt. So, Madison considered it had done all it ought to have done before lending.
However, my view is that this was a substantial loan for a 36 month term and Madison knew
from its own research into Miss Ws credit history that she had three CCJs (two of which
were unsatisfied) plus she had been discharged from a DRO as recently as June 2020 (it
had started in June 2019). The CCJs details were as follows:Judgment date of 21 December 2018 for £594  satisfied 16 September 2021
Judgment date of 14 January 2019 for £876  date of dispute registered on credit file 
8 February 2022
Judgment date of 29 May 2019 for £556  date of dispute registered on credit file on 
8 February 2022
Two of the CCJs were marked as being in dispute. For a creditor to get to the stage where
it takes the debt issue to court and secures a Judgement shows that Miss W must have
been in arrears for a significant time beforehand. Miss Ws DRO started in June 2019 and so
just after the third CCJ was imposed. I think Madison was aware that Miss W had a poor
credit history and had some ongoing issues including outstanding CCJs with disputes
registered. And the credit history was not a couple of arrears and maybe a default  these
were significant events and clearly her persistent earlier arrears had pushed her into the
DRO which I know to be a very particular, and some may describe as a drastic, step for a
debtor to take.
So, when Miss W applied to Madison for a significant sum of £4,000 (plus interest) over a
36-month term, I do not consider it a disproportionate response for Madison to have carried
out a full financial review in relation to Miss Ws situation and I dont think it did that.
I accept that the credit search Madison had done in February 2022 showed that Miss W only
had an outstanding debt of £287 and her credit card limit was £1,100 and so she had only
got a Balance to Limit Ratio of 26%. And this is one of the reasons I have thought about all
aspects of this complaint carefully.
So  at first sight  the credit search results would not have looked too bad from Madisons
perspective. But as I have explained above, it seems that this was Miss Ws first significant
application for credit since the DRO had lifted in June 2020 (apart from a couple of low value
credit cards). And the history was such that it could not have been ignored in my view.
Miss W has told us that Madison had approved her for a credit card just before she had
applied for this loan. Miss W has not given any details but using the credit search Madison
had done then a credit card with a Finance House had been approved for her on
1 September 2021. That maybe it. 
What would Madison have discovered if it had looked into Miss Ws finances?
For me to be satisfactorily decided that the complaint should be upheld, I need to know what 
it was that Madison may have seen if it had carried out a full financial review as I have 
explained I think it ought to have done.
Miss W has sent to us copies of her bank account statements for the time around
February 2022. Miss W has sent us her Universal Credit (UC) statement for that time as
well. Some of Miss Ws UC was deducted (around £67 each month) to repay advanced UC
payments already made to her.
Having noticed that there were some unexplained credits into her bank account Miss W has
explained them to us as:
- £500 emergency funding from her local Council, twice in January 2022 plus she 
was getting vouchers for food and for energy use  covered off in the documentation
shes sent to explain these emergency fund credits
- UC from the Department of Work and Pensions which credited her account 
regularly 24 January 2022 was £776.75 (and the same in December 2021 and
February 2022)
- Child benefit of around £49 each two weeks so about £106 a month
- Credit (£312 on 4 February 2022 and £344.37 on 4 March 2022) from a 
supermarket
which was her part-time employment, and which was accounted for in her UC
calculations from the documents I have been sent by Miss W
Using the bank statements Miss W has sent to us, I can see that Miss W paid the usual
household bills and paid down her credit cards. She had to pay for items for the children at
school. She had some returned direct debits  for example the water bill in early
January 2022. Miss W has said to us:
The rent was paid directly from my universal credit to  council as I had been
moved in and out of temporary housing accommodation so it doesnt show on my
bank statement. I can show this on my universal credit award statement.
Miss W explained that she spent money on petrol and insurances to get the children to
school.
Miss W has explained that she was paying off a debt to her former partner for a car but Id
not have expected Madison to know about that. So, I discount that as an expense Madison
would be expected to have factored in.
Income
In relation to Miss Ws income, she had declared to Madison in February 2022 when
applying that her income was around £1,386. With the part-time job at the supermarket her
average monthly income with the benefits she received was more like £1,203 each month
and not the figure of almost £1,400 each month.
So, I consider that a proper investigation would have revealed Miss W got almost £200 a
month less than the figure Madison had used for its income and expenditure (I&E)
calculations.
Miss W has explained that she had been off work long term sick and she has sent to us a
sick note indicating she was signed off from work for a month in May and June 2022. I think
this is relevant to the future repayments of this loan but for the purposes of the irresponsible
lending complaint then the relevant time was February 2022 and Ive no evidence Miss W
was on sick-leave then. But I note she has explained that she may have taken time off as
annual leave to deal with the symptoms before the sick note was issued in May 2022.
Expenditure
In relation to Miss Ws outgoings, she has pointed out that it looks like her application for the
loan had no information about her outgoings and each entry was marked as £0. Miss W has
raised this with us to say it ought to have been a flag to Madison. And I agree.
Having looked at all the points and the evidence Miss W has sent us which I consider
Madison would have discovered if it had done a realistic and detailed income and
expenditure account rather than used the reasonable 'average figures' then I think Madison
would have realised that Miss W was not likely able to repay the £177 each month for three
years in a sustainable fashion.
I think that the pounds and pence calculations were not likely to have shown that Miss W
could afford £177 a month either. And even if it had, with emergency funding, food andenergy vouchers being given to her, the outstanding CCJs, her DRO history and three
dependents as a single mother then I do not consider it would have been sustainable for her.
I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
The circumstances are that the loan agreement is continuing as its within the three year 
agreement period. Madison is to do as follows to put things right:
refund all interest and charges Miss W paid on the loan to date and apply it to the 
loan account to reduce the capital to be repaid  this is £4,000;
arrange for Miss W to have a fresh repayment arrangement if that is what is 
appropriate in Miss Ws circumstances  alternatively for her to continue to pay for 
the loan in line with the current loan agreement but for the capital sum of £4,000 only;
ensure that if there is a new repayment schedule it does not appear as an 
Arrangement to Pay on her credit file which is an adverse entry  but is marked as 
normal loan repayments;
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Ws credit file for the 
period from February 2022 to date  if there are any.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct that Madison CF UK Limited, 
trading as 118 118 Money, does as I have outlined in the putting things right section of the 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman