DRN-1548718
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC have settled her claim following an escape of 
water. 
What happened
 Mrs A had a home insurance policy with Lloyds. In January 2018 there was an escape of 
water at her property and she made a clam on her insurance. 
The claim went on for some time and Mrs A raised a number of complaints regarding the 
service she had received throughout. In mid 2019 Lloyds proposed a cash settlement. This 
was based on a scope of works put together by its agent. It agreed to pay the full amount 
proposed in the scope, along with additional payments for surveyors fees, a temporary 
kitchen, replacement carpets and energy costs. This amount was paid into Mrs As bank 
account.
Mrs A was unhappy with this settlement. She said there were a number of items missing. 
She said the quotes she had obtained had not been looked at and Lloyds had failed to 
consider the impact the claim had on her health. She made a complaint to Lloyds.
Lloyds agreed to pay an additional £152 to match a quote she had to replace her carpets. 
However it said the scope of works had been agreed by her loss adjuster so it wouldnt be 
paying anything further. It said if she provided evidence of her health concerns then it would 
consider this as part of a separate complaint.
Mrs A wasnt happy with Lloyds response. She said that kitchen plinths were damaged and 
so the kitchen units should be replaced. Further she said the impact on her health had been 
significant and should be considered. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said the cash settlement reflected the agreed scope of works so she couldnt ask Lloyds 
to pay anything additional.
Mrs A disagreed with this assessment. She said her loss adjustor didnt agree to the scope 
of works as she had dismissed him before this point. She asked for the complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a complaint about the proposed settlement for an insurance claim, I 
consider all the information and supporting evidence provided. Based on this, I decide 
whether the insurer has made a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.In this case Lloyds has provided a detailed scope of works that has been put together by its 
contractor. Mrs A has contested this and said that there are items missing. However she 
hasnt provided any further information to back up this assertion. As I have not seen the 
property myself and I am not an expert in construction, I am more persuaded by the report 
from someone who is. 
I have looked at the detailed scope of works provided by Lloyds. It gives an assessment of 
the work required in each room of the property, which is broken down and fully costed. The 
cash settlement amount it has paid matches this report, with some additional amounts added 
in for extras. 
Mrs A has said there are items that have been missed from the scope of works. For example 
she says that the kitchen needs replacing.  However she hasnt provided further information 
to support this. I have had to base my decision on the information I have. The scope of 
works provided by Lloyds explains the work required in the kitchen in detail. This includes 
removing the kitchen units and reinstating them. I have considered both explanations 
However as the scope of works includes a lot of detail about the required work, I am more 
persuaded by this. I therefore agree that Lloyds opinion that a replacement kitchen isnt 
necessary is a reasonable one
For these reasons, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly by cash settling based on the 
scope of works. I havent seen enough to make me think it should paying for additional work 
or that the cash settlement its offered isnt fair and reasonable. 
Mrs A has also said that she considers her property to still contain moisture which was from 
the original escape of water. I have looked at the history of the claim and I can see the 
property was declared dry at the beginning of 2018. This was accepted by Mrs As appointed 
loss adjustor at the time and was not questioned throughout 2018. I therefore havent seen 
enough to make me think that further drying was required after the escape of water. 
Considering the amount of time since the incident, and the fact no problems were raised at 
the time, it seems most likely that any current problems with moisture are unrelated to the 
drying of the property following the escape of water.
Mrs A has explained that the ongoing claim has had an impact on her health which led to her 
collapsing at work. I can see that the claim has been ongoing for some time and there have 
been a number of issues raised throughout the process. I appreciate this must have caused 
distress and inconvenience for Mrs A and I am sorry to hear about the deterioration of her 
health. Lloyds has said it will consider the impact this has had on her health as a separate 
complaint. It has requested further details to show that the condition was linked to the stress 
of the ongoing claim. I think this is fair, so I wont ask Lloyds to do anything further in relation 
to this as part of my assessment of this complaint.
For all these reasons I think Lloyds has offered a fair and reasonable settlement for this 
claim. I therefore wont ask them to do anything further or differently. 
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given, I wont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything in addition or 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman