DRN-1933882
The complaint
Mr A trading as M complains that Barclays Bank UK plc appointed Receivers who sold his 
property at an undervalue and without giving him adequate time to try to settle the 
outstanding debt.
What happened
Mr A says he had an overdraft facility on his business current account with Barclays. He 
says the overdraft was put in place in 2008 and was for £200,000. He says he granted 
Barclays a legal charge over property as security for the overdraft.
He says Barclays cancelled the limit in 2010 and issued a formal demand. He says Barclays 
didnt make any further contact with him at that time. He discovered in 2016 that Barclays 
had appointed Receivers under its charge and the property over which Barclays held the 
legal charge was to be auctioned.
Mr A says he contacted Barclays at this time, but it referred him to the Receivers. He says 
he expressed concern about the price which had been reserved. He says the reserve price 
was only £20,000 whereas he thought the property was worth considerably more. He asked 
for more time to allow him to get funds he was expecting or to arrange a refinance. Despite 
this he says the auction went ahead and the property was sold at a significant undervalue. 
He complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated his complaint. It said it had issued a demand for repayment of the 
outstanding overdraft in 2010 and had sent numerous letters since then. Those letters had 
been sent to Mr As address in the UK. Mr A said hed been abroad after this date, but he 
hadnt provided it with an alternative address.
Barclays said it was entitled to appoint Receivers under the terms of its legal charge and the 
Receivers were entitled to sell the property. It said the reserve price had been increased to 
£65,000 and the property had been sold for £72,000. Barclays said this meant there was a 
significant residual debt, but it hadnt pursued Mr A for repayment of that debt - and it was 
not its intention to do so. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. He 
said that an overdraft was repayable on demand. This meant Barclays could recall it at any 
time. He said Barclays had collateral in place. It tried to contact Mr A before it had appointed 
Receivers. The property had been sold for less than Mr A expected but he said our service 
couldnt look into the actions of the Receivers. And, he noted that Barclays hadnt pursued 
Mr A for the residual debt. So, he thought Barclays had acted fairly. He didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the history of Mr As account with Barclays. He was granted an overdraft of 
£200,000 in July 2009. It appears that the limit was subsequently reduced to £195,000 on 16 
December 2009 and then to £185,000 on 1 April 2010. The terms of the overdraft facility 
letter stated that it was repayable on demand. Mr A accepted these terms.
The overdraft was secured by a legal charge over certain property which Mr A owned. Ive 
looked at the terms of the legal charge which Mr A signed. It stated that the property was 
security for all moneys and liabilities due owing or incurred to Barclays by Mr A. It also 
stated that after Barclays issued a demand for payment it could appoint a Receiver. The 
Receiver had wide powers including the power to take possession of the property and sell it. 
The legal charge stated that the Receiver was agent of the mortgagor (Mr A).
Under the terms of the legal charge, a demand for payment was valid if it was addressed to 
Mr A and sent by post to or left at the last known place of business or abode of Mr A.
The Bank did issue a demand and posted it to Mr As last known address. It hasnt been able 
to provide a copy of the letter of demand. But it has provided a copy of its records which 
indicate that a letter of demand was sent to his last known address on 11 October 2010. Mr 
A says he wasnt living at this address because he was abroad at this time. But he hadnt 
provided Barclays with a different address. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it 
sent correspondence to the last address on its records.
After the letter of demand was issued there was further contact between Barclays and Mr A. 
Mr A told Barclays he hoped to clear his indebtedness from the proceeds of a court case 
hed won. But he wasnt able to access the money or transfer it to the UK at that time 
because of certain country sanctions. He was in email contact with Barclays about this in 
November 2010. So, I think he was aware of the letter of demand. At that time Barclays told 
him, by email, it thought it was unlikely that the moneys from his court case would become 
available for some time. It said he would have to look at alternatives to repay the outstanding 
amount.
Having looked at the email correspondence in November 2010, Im satisfied Mr A was aware 
of the letter of demand and was aware that Barclays required him to make proposals for 
repayment of the debt. He didnt make any proposals however until a few days before the 
auction in October 2016.
Barclays sent further correspondence to Mr A in 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. These letters 
were sent as a result of annual reviews of the account. Mr A was asked to contact Barclays 
to make arrangements to repay his debt. There doesnt appear to have been any response 
from Mr A to any of this correspondence. 
In November 2015 Barclays appointed agents which its referred to as professional partners. 
The purpose of this appointment was to engage with Mr A with a view to trying to reach an 
acceptable repayment arrangement with him. By this stage the indebtedness had increased 
to over £200,000.
Mr A didnt engage with Barclays or its professional partners. So, in August 2016 Barclays 
appointed Receivers. It wrote to Mr A to inform him about this.  As mentioned above it had 
power to do this under the terms of the legal charge. The Receivers decided to place the 
property into an auction which was scheduled to take place in October 2016.
Mr A mustve become aware of the auction. A few days before the auction he contacted 
Barclays. He put forward three options at this stage:Postpone the sale. He said he believed the real value of the property was at least 
£150,000. It had initially been placed in the auction with a reserve price of £20,000  
although this had been increased to £65,000;
Give him more time to try to get the money from the court case hed won;
Give him time to refinance.
Ive considered how Barclays responded to Mr A at this stage. As Ive mentioned above the 
terms of the legal charge stated that the Receivers were agents of Mr A. So, once that 
appointment had been made by Barclays, it had no responsibility for or power over the 
Receivers actions. 
Barclays told Mr A he needed to speak to the Receivers  which he did. I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to refer Mr A to the Receivers. The Receivers asked him to provide 
evidence to support what hed said about the refinancing. He said hed need more time to do 
this. The Receivers werent satisfied with this response and decided to go ahead with the 
auction and the property sold for £72,000. Fees and other charges wouldve had to be 
deducted from the sale price. 
Following the sale, Barclays wrote off the residual debt which was a substantial amount.
Having considered the sequence of events here, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. It afforded Mr A considerable time to repay the debt over several years. It 
appointed professional partners to engage with him and it was only when it still hadnt 
received any satisfactory proposals it decided to appoint Receivers. Im satisfied it didnt do 
anything wrong when it did this. The terms of the legal charge allowed it to appoint 
Receivers and the Receivers were empowered to sell the property.
The Receivers placed the property for sale by public auction. Mr A only started to engage 
with Barclays a few days before the auction and it told him he needed to speak to the 
Receivers. As Ive mentioned above, under the terms of the legal charge the Receivers were 
agents of Mr A and Barclays had no responsibility or power over their actions once the 
appointment had been made. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it told Mr A hed 
have to speak to the Receivers.
I have noted that the Receivers did have dialogue with Mr A before the auction. But they 
werent satisfied with what he was proposing and proceeded to sell the property by public 
auction, subject to a reserve of £65,000. The property realised a price of £72,000. 
Its important to point out here that Im unable to consider Mr As concerns about the actions 
of the Receivers - such as the reserve price they set on the property before the auction. This 
is because the Receiver acted as agent of Mr A and the actions of the Receivers arent 
covered by the jurisdictional scope of our service. If Mr A has concerns about the Receivers 
actions, he needs to raise those concerns directly with the Receivers. I cant consider that in 
a complaint about Barclays.
As Ive mentioned above the matter had been ongoing for several years. And, having 
considered everything here, I think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably when it appointed 
the Receivers. Its also written off a substantial debt. And, its told us it doesnt intend to 
pursue Mr A for repayment of this residual debt. I dont require it to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman