DRN-1904309
The complaint
Mr S has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions on his debit and 
credit cards that he didnt authorise.
What happened
In late May 2019 Mr S went with friends on holiday. He opted to go out with someone hed 
linked up with on a dating app. The person he met brought a friend. He bought a round of 
drinks with cash and they bought him a drink in a bar. After that he couldnt remember 
anything much about what happened. He knows he was dropped off back at his own hotel 
more than 24 hours later.
After checking his Nationwide account, he could see thered been transactions made he 
didnt recognise so complained to Nationwide. He called them on 2 June at just before 
12:20. Nationwide didnt agree Mr S had been a victim of fraud and felt hed made all the 
transactions himself. They couldnt find out  nor could Mr S confirm  how Mr Ss cards and 
PINs had been compromised or how his mobile banking app had been accessed. Records 
showed this was accessed using Mr Ss fingerprint.
Nearly £12,000 had been spent on Mr Ss debit card mostly in bars from 22:19 on 31 May to 
23:48 on 1 June 2019. Two withdrawals of €100 had been made on Mr Ss credit card at 
midnight and 00:03 on 1 June.
Mr S was able to show friends and family looking for him during the period he was missing. 
Hed also reported the crime to the police overseas and was assiduously pursuing all 
avenues for a potential prosecution. Nationwide still wouldnt refund Mr S so he brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included very detailed submissions from Mr S, 
including evidence of how and when his mobile banking app had been accessed. Although 
he couldnt be sure how Mr Ss cards and PINs had been compromised, he felt the evidence 
backed up Mr Ss story that hed not authorised all these transactions. He asked Nationwide 
to refund all the transactions plus 8% interest. He also wanted Nationwide to pay £250 for 
the trouble caused.
Nationwide disagreed with this outcome. Our investigator shared Mr Ss evidence with them 
showing hed reported this to the police. He also pointed out Mr Ss app could have been 
accessed without his consent by using his fingerprint. Particularly as Mr Ss evidence was all 
about him having been drugged during what had happened.
As Nationwide wouldnt agree to the outcome, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
In broad terms a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
The issues I have considered include:
Mr Ss story throughout has been consistent and credible. Ive seen Mr Ss friends 
and family were concerned about his whereabouts in the time he was missing. And 
he reported what had happened to the police. Hes also appointed a criminal lawyer 
overseas to pursue prosecution at considerable cost to himself. He completed a 
detailed witness submission in this process.
Mr S confirms he went to a bar to play billiards with the woman hed met and her 
friend. He can recall drinking a beer and a vodka shot.
Mr S had a considerable amount of money in his Nationwide current account. This 
was the result of a property sale. Nationwide seems to feel this money was placed 
there to finance £12,000 worth of bar expenditure. This seems unlikely to me. I cant 
see any reason why this would be so nor has Nationwide provided any evidence on 
this aspect. 
There is no clear evidence how Mr Ss PINs were compromised. I accept this. There 
are card transactions made from 22:19 on 31 May onwards (which matches the 
timeline Mr S has told us about). Mr Ss own evidence when engaging a criminal 
lawyer suggests he may have been given the terminal and put the PIN in himself. 
This transaction was for £116.27 (plus £3.20 fee charge). I note this was much lower 
than subsequent transactions.
The subsequent bar transactions in different venues number more than 35 and are 
all for amounts well in excess of £100 and even more than £400.
Nationwide blocked the fourth transaction made during this stream of transactions at 
23:54 on 31 May. They sent Mr S two texts asking him to confirm whether this had 
been genuine or not. They got confirmation back that it was. This meant the 
subsequent large number of transactions were also authorised without any 
intervention (as well as the available balance on Mr Ss Nationwide account).Firstly its worth confirming I see no reason to dispute Mr Ss statement that as he 
was incapable of responding to this text himself, it was most likely done by one of his 
companions. Theyd only have needed to use his finger to access this message.
Secondly Im surprised that the volume of transactions, that followed confirmation this 
one was genuine, were authorised without any block being placed by Nationwide. By 
reviewing these transactions, which happened almost half-hourly and certainly at 
least hourly over the next 24 hours, it seems clear to me that these should be 
considered as out of character for most customers. £12,000 was spent in bars in a 
24-hour period. Id have expected Nationwide to have identified this as an issue and 
taken action.
M declined an attempt to withdraw €100 from a cash machine as well as three other 
bar-based transactions.
As Ive decided Mr S didnt authorise these transactions  after the initial transaction 
of £116.27 at least  and expand on this below, I dont need to decide at what stage 
Nationwide should have intervened but I can understand why Mr S was concerned 
about Nationwides fraud controls in this case.
I find Mr Ss story of what happened realistic and, as well as above, the following aspects 
have convinced me of this:
If Mr S had been buying and drinking what was purchased at the rate of the 
transactions over these 24 hours, Im not sure he wouldnt have been in hospital with 
alcohol poisoning.
Mr S has been adamant he wasnt drinking excessively and was distressed by 
Nationwides suggestion hed just drunk and spent too much. Based on what the 
transactions tell us, I dont think this is realistic either.
There were attempts towards the end of this train of transactions to apply for an 
overdraft on Mr Ss Nationwide account. I cant imagine why Mr S would try to do this 
as his current balance exceeded £30,000.
Mr Ss evidence also confirms his cash  he had about €150 on him  was stolen.
I have also considered that by using his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the 
terminal or even whether Mr S was so unaware he didnt notice what it said, Mr S was 
consenting to the transactions. In fact I dont think this is what happened. When the women 
he was with knew Mr Ss PINs, theres no reason why theyd have continued to present a 
terminal to him.
Having considered all the issues in this complaint  which are undeniably complex  I dont 
believe Mr S made these transactions himself or consented to anyone else making this on 
his behalf, bar the first bar-based transaction for £116.27.
Putting things right
I will be asking Nationwide to refund all the disputed transactions on his debit card bar the 
first one. This includes the cash machine transaction for €400 on his debit card right at the 
end of this ordeal. All foreign transaction fees will also need to be refunded. 8% simple 
interest needs to be added to this total from 3 June 2019, the date these transactions 
debited Mr Ss account. 
On this basis the two cash machine transactions completed with Mr Ss Nationwide credit 
card also need to be refunded along with the cash machine withdrawal fees and any 
subsequent interest charges.Mr S made it clear when he brought his complaint to us that he was also concerned about 
how Nationwide handled his complaint and the efficacy of their fraud controls, as well as the 
disputed transactions themselves. Ive referred to whether Nationwide should have been 
more alert to what was going on above.
Nationwide seems to have taken two stances on this complaint which has led them to 
coming to the wrong conclusion: a misplaced belief that just because Mr S had a large 
balance in his account he had the ability to spend £12,000 on a night out; and that their 
terms and conditions trump the PSRs. As they know that isnt correct.
Nationwide offered Mr S £200 for misleading him about how they contacted him when a 
transaction was blocked. I can appreciate why he didnt wish to accept this but overall I think 
this is a fair offer for this aspect.
Mr S has asked whether his overseas legal costs can be reimbursed. Ive considered this. 
Mr S is pursuing a criminal prosecution regardless of whether this gets any of his money 
back (which I cant see happening). On this basis I dont believe it would be fair to ask 
Nationwide to reimburse him.
Like our investigator, Im also requiring Nationwide to pay Mr S a further £250 for the trouble 
theyve caused him. I can imagine this has been a traumatic experience. I see limited 
evidence that Nationwide thought anything than Mr S must have authorised these 
transactions without thinking about what that meant.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Nationwide Building Society to:
Refund all the disputed transactions and fees debited to Mr Ss Nationwide current 
account on 3 June 2019, except the transaction for £116.27 (plus £3.20);
Add 8% simple interest a year to this amount from 3 June 2019 until the date of 
settlement;
Credit Mr Ss credit card account with the two cash machine withdrawals made on 
1 June 2019, along with any related fees;
Reimburse any interest charged to Mr Ss account for these two transactions; and
Pay Mr S a total of £450 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman