DRN-3555412
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr T opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in October 2016 with an initial credit limit 
of £1,200. His credit limit was increased to £1,600 in February 2019. 
Mr T eventually defaulted on his credit card. Mr T says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly 
by providing him with the credit card and when it increased his limit. He says if Barclaycard 
had done adequate checks on his situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to 
repay his balance in a reasonable length of time. 
Barclaycard says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr T and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr T  and when it increased his credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld from the point of the last 
credit limit increase. On the basis of the information available to them, they thought 
Barclaycard ought reasonably to have thought there was an indication the credit was 
unaffordable for Mr T.
Barclaycard disagreed. It said that large increases in the amount Mr T borrowed elsewhere 
was evidence that Mr T was creditworthy and that he was making large repayments 
towards other debts, showing that he was able to manage them. It said its own checks on his 
income showed that his declared income was correct. Barclaycard didnt agree it should 
have done better checks. 
Our adjudicator explained why they didnt think Barclaycards rebuttal made a difference. As 
Barclaycard still disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
Mr T is unwell, and he is represented by his sister, who has provided all of the information 
requested. To keep things simple, I have referred only to Mr T. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ts complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ts income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Ts income, the total amount Mr T borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr T had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
 
When Mr T took out the credit card in October 2016 I think Barclaycard found out a 
reasonable amount about Mr T and his ability to repay the credit. And looking at the 
information it had I think that it made a fair decision to lend to Mr T at that time. The checks 
(including information provided by Mr T during his application) showed that Mr T was 
employed, living in rented accommodation, and earning about £20,000 a year. He had a 
relatively modest amount of outstanding debt elsewhere - £2,341 over three credit cards.
Barclaycards income and expenditure assessment, using Transunion data, indicated that Mr 
T had a disposable income each month of around £400. So I think its fair to say that Mr T 
would have been able to sustainably repay the borrowing, even if he used his whole limit.
Barclaycard says it did the same checks when it increased his credit limit in 2019. However, 
by now his financial circumstances were rather different. Barclaycards data showed that he 
now had a loan for nearly £23,000 and had external credit card debt of over £5,500. 
Barclaycard says that he had recently repaid over £6,000 in credit card debt elsewhere. This 
event is shown on its submissions as happening in March/April 2019  after the credit limit 
increase had been offered to Mr T in February 2019, so it is not clear that this is a fact 
Barclaycard can rely on.
 
Even though Mr T appeared to be managing his Barclaycard well, with no missed payments 
elsewhere, I think the amount of unsecured borrowing ought to have caused Barclaycard 
some concern. And, as our adjudicator pointed out, according to Barclaycards data from 
Transunion, it appeared that Mr Ts estimated regular outgoings would be more than his 
entire income each month. So, with this in mind, I think Barclaycard ought to have done 
further checks, by asking Mr T about his income and expenditure.
I cant say for sure what Barclaycard would have found out if it had asked Mr T about his 
income and expenditure at the time. After Barclaycard reiterated its objection to the 
adjudicators view, I asked Mr T to provide a copy of his credit file. He has been able to 
provide this, and it shows some of his financial circumstances around the time of the credit 
limit increase- its possible other information is no longer visible, for example if other debts 
have been removed from his credit file as a result of other upheld complaints.   While it is not 
possible to identify exactly what amounts he had outstanding in total, I can see that his 
unsecured borrowing was well in excess of his total annual income. There is an additional 
loan which does not appear to have been present on Barclaycards data, which had more 
than £7,000 outstanding, and at least five other credit cards. His mortgage payments were 
higher than Barclaycards data indicated. It also seems that Mr T paid off some debts 
(including a large amount of credit card debt) by taking out other borrowing  so 
Barclaycards argument that these large repayments evidence his creditworthiness is not 
sustainable.The credit file information reinforces my view that any additional borrowing would not have 
been sustainable for Mr T. Although Barclaycard suggests that the £400 increase was 
modest this isnt relevant. Barclaycard needed to obtain sufficient evidence that Mr T could 
afford all of his borrowing when it provided him with the increase, regardless of how much 
that might have been. 
So while Mr T wasnt missing payments anywhere (as far as I can tell) at this point, I think it 
was clear that Mr T would have been paying a very significant proportion of his income each 
month to meet repayments on unsecured debt and that he had no disposable income at all.  
I think if Barclaycard had taken this into consideration it would have been clear that he could 
not sustainably afford an increase in his credit limit. I dont think Barclaycard should have 
increased Mr Ts credit limit and I think Mr T lost out as a result of Barclaycards decision to 
do so. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Ts credit limit from £1,200, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mr T has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think 
he should pay this back. Therefore, I direct Barclaycard to:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £1,200.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr T along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Barclaycard should also remove all adverse information 
recorded from 19 February 2019 regarding this account from Mr Ts credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,200, Barclaycard 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr T for the remaining amount. 
Once Mr T has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 19 February 2019 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit 
file.
If Barclaycard has sold the debt to a third party it should arrange to either buy back 
the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above 
is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
Mr T is currently very unwell and not in a position to communicate directly with Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard must communicate with his representative while he is incapacitated and must 
show forbearance in managing any remaining debt. If Mr T or his representative have any 
concerns about Barclaycards management of any remaining debt they can raise a further 
complaint with the business and, if that fails to resolve matters, can bring a further complaint 
to this service. My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to 
pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman