DRN-3371490
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not fairly compensate her after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a loan. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mrs A at the same time as she took the loan out on 11 May 1999. From the 
information provided to us by Barclays, it appears Mrs A was sold a single premium PPI 
policy. That means she had to borrow an additional £2,705.48 on top of her loan to pay for 
the cover. She also had to pay interest on that additional amount. 
At some point, I understand Mrs A made a successful claim on the PPI policy and £958.68 
was paid towards her loan by the insurer. 
Mrs A told us she ran into difficulties repaying the loan when she lost her job. In 2007, it 
looks as though Barclays issued proceedings in the County Court and a County Court 
Judgment (CCJ) was made against Mrs A. On 2 February 2015, the judgment was varied to 
the effect that Mrs A pay £10 per month with the first instalment to reach Barclays by 2 
March 2015. 
In or around 2019, Mrs A complained to Barclays that it had mis-sold the PPI policy to her. 
Barclays upheld the complaint and it offered to compensate her for that mis-sale. Barclays 
calculated the compensation as follows: 
Cost of the PPI single premium: £2,705.48
Interest paid on the single premium: £1,706.94
Compensatory interest: £1,835.17
LESS the previous claim -£958.68
TOTAL £5,288.91
However, Barclays said that it would not pay all the refund to Mrs A. It said it would keep 
£2,041.33 back to reduce Mrs As outstanding loan balance. I understand Mrs A received a 
refund of £3,247.58. 
Mrs A didnt think it was right for Barclays to retain some of the compensation and so she 
complained. In its letter of 5 July 2019, Barclays said that it had refunded what Mrs A had 
paid for the PPI policy up to the point when it transferred her loan account to its recovery 
team. But when the account was transferred to the recovery team, as there was an 
outstanding balance, that meant there was still an amount in the loan for PPI that Mrs A 
hadnt paid for. Barclays said the £2,041.33 it kept back represented that amount. 
Mrs A then complained to this service. She said Barclays should not have retained more 
than £2,000 when the terms of the CCJ were that she should repay the outstanding balance 
at £10 per month. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this, but he thought it was fair for Barclays to withhold some 
of the compensation. Mrs A didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the matter was passed 
to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below. 
As the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to consider what happened at the 
point of sale. Im looking at whether Barclays fairly compensated Mrs A for the mis-sale. 
Was Barclays calculation fair? 
When PPI is mis-sold to a consumer, so far as it is possible to do so, I would expect a 
business to return that consumer to the position they would have been in if PPI had never 
been sold in the first place. In this case, Id expect Barclays to work out the difference 
between what Mrs A paid and what she would have paid without PPI. Id also expect it to 
add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until the date she gets it back. 
The rate of interest would be 8% a year. 
Looking at the calculation above, it appears to me that Barclays undertook the relevant steps 
when it calculated that if everything had gone to plan with Mrs As loan, she would have 
been owed £5,288.91 in PPI compensation. 
Was it fair for Barclays to retain some of the compensation? 
As set out above, we know that Mrs A wasnt able to keep to the terms of the loan and she 
ran into financial difficulties. Barclays transferred the account to its recoveries team. As this 
was a single premium PPI policy, at the point the account was transferred, Mrs A had paid 
for some of the PPI policy. But there was also some of it that hadnt been paid for. Barclays 
says the £2,041.33 it kept back relates to the unpaid amount.  
Barclays refunded £3,247.58 to Mrs A, which relates to what she actually paid for the PPI 
premium and additional interest before it was passed to the recoveries department. It also 
includes an amount of compensatory interest. I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Barclays to pay the £2,041.33 to Mrs A directly. Thats because it relates to what she 
borrowed for the PPI, but hadnt paid back. 
I know that Mrs A feels strongly that Barclays should have returned all of the money to her 
and that she would then have repaid it to Barclays in line with the CCJ at £10 per month. For 
the reasons set out above, I cant reasonably say that would be fair. 
In any event, I have to apply the rules under which this service operates. These rules are set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) and are known as the DISP rules. They can 
be found online on the FCAs website.  
Insofar as it applies to this complaint, DISP APP 3.9.1G says that if Mrs As loan account is 
in arrears, Barclays can use her compensation to reduce the associated loan balance. It also 
says Barclays should act fairly and reasonably in deciding whether to retain funds in those 
circumstances. In refunding what Mrs A had actually paid for the PPI, and retaining the 
unpaid element of the PPI policy, I am satisfied that Barclays did act fairly here. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs A, but after giving careful thought to the issues she raised in her 
complaint, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly. I dont need to tell it to take any further action in 
this matter. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman