DRN-2342126
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that the property insurance policy she had with Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva) doesnt cover all the items she thought it did.  So, when she wanted to 
make a claim for damage in her home, she found it wasnt covered.
What happened
Mrs S lives in rented accommodation.  Her tenancy allows her to do work on the property. 
She had a contents insurance policy with Aviva, which shed bought via another company.
In the first half of 2020, Mrs Ss flooring was damaged by an escape of water in her 
bathroom.  She contacted Aviva about making a claim.  But Aviva told her that she couldnt 
do that, because her policy was for contents only.  And damage to flooring was dealt with 
under buildings insurance  which, as a tenant, Mrs S didnt have.
Mrs S complained to Aviva as she said shed been told she had buildings cover.  Aviva 
looked into her complaint.  They couldnt identify any call when Mrs S had been told that.  
But as a gesture of goodwill, they offered to add Tenants Improvements cover to her policy 
at no extra charge, so that any improvement she made to her home would be insured.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us.  She told our investigator that, when shed lived in 
another rented house, shed contacted Aviva about a stain on the landlords carpet.  She 
said Aviva told her that she couldnt make a claim for this under her policy, because she 
didnt own the carpet.  She understood from this that if she did own the flooring, shed have 
been covered.  
And she thought Aviva shouldve offered her Tenants Improvements cover when she called 
them to tell them shed be moving  but the people she dealt with didnt seem to know such 
a product existed.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ss concerns and came to the conclusion that Aviva 
shouldnt have done anything differently.  He looked at the definitions in her policy and 
thought that flooring fell within the definition of buildings cover  which Mrs S didnt have.  
And he didnt think that they shouldve told her about Tenants Improvements cover.  He said 
Mrs S had mentioned to the person changing her address on Avivas system that she was 
allowed to make improvements  not that shed be doing so.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mrs Ss renewal documents.  They show that Mrs Ss policy provided cover for 
contents, but not for buildings.  So Im satisfied she only had contents cover.
Ive looked at the policy document.  Its a general document, provided by Aviva to all its 
policyholders.  Not all of the information is relevant to every policyholder.  
The document defines buildings as:
a) The house or flat and its outbuildings
b) Fixtures, fittings and decorations.
Contents are defined as: 
Household items and personal belongings
And the contents section of the policy says it doesnt cover:
any part of the structure of the home including ceilings, wallpaper and the like.
The policy doesnt give an exhaustive list of which items fall into which category.  And it 
doesnt expand the definitions Ive quoted above.  But I think its reasonable to say that items 
which are attached to the property in some way are fixtures  so they fall within the definition 
of buildings.  
And Im satisfied that the flooring which was damaged by the escape of water was fixed.  So 
it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that it was something theyd cover as part of a 
buildings policy.  And, as Mrs S didnt have buildings cover, I think it was reasonable for 
Aviva to say the damage to her flooring wasnt covered.
Its unfortunate that Mrs S understood the issue differently following her earlier contact with 
Aviva about her landlords carpet.  But nothing Ive seen suggests this is because she was 
given the wrong information by Aviva about what she was covered for.
Ive also thought about Mrs Ss complaint that she shouldve been offered Tenants 
Improvements cover when she called Aviva to tell them shed be moving.  Ive listened to 
that call.  I heard Mrs S tell the call handler that her new home was in a good state of repair.  
And she said that she and her family were allowed to do work to the property.
But she didnt tell Aviva the family would be doing work.  So I dont think its reasonable to 
say that Aviva shouldve offered her extra cover for this during the call.  The call handler did 
offer Mrs S removals cover when she said she was moving.  Im satisfied from this that Aviva 
were alive to checking the cover Mrs S had met her needs.    
I know Mrs S feels strongly that she was sold insurance that wasnt suitable for her needs.  I 
sympathise with her frustration.  But Aviva didnt sell her the policy  they only dealt with 
issues which arose after shed bought it.  And I dont think they shouldve dealt with those 
any differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman