DRN-1199427
 
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that SN Marketing Services Ltd, trading as My PPI Refund, are charging 
him a fee on a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In April 2019 Mr F asked My PPI Refund to carry out a free PPI check. The Letter of 
Authority Mr F signed allowed My PPI Refund to make a potential mis-selling claim on his 
behalf, if they found hed been sold PPI. My PPI Refund contacted Mr F on 31 May to let him 
know that theyd found a PPI policy with Lender H. Mr F agreed for them to make the claim, 
which they did. The claim was successful and My PPI Refund invoiced Mr F for their fees.
Mr F has complained that he didnt sign up for My PPI Refunds services, so he doesnt think 
they should be charging him a fee.
Our investigator found that My PPI Refund hadnt done anything wrong. They submitted the 
claim Mr F asked them to, and they charged him the fee hed agreed to. Because of this, he 
didnt think My PPI Refund needed to do anything more.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He acknowledged that hed spoken to My PPI Refund 
on 31 May, but he didnt think they had any authority to make the claim for him. So hes 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of My PPI Refunds Letter of Engagement. This confirmed that My PPI 
Refund would carry out a free PPI check to identify whether PPI has been sold to you. If we 
think PPI has been sold to you, and if you authorise us to, we also agree to review the 
circumstances of your case and circumstances (if appropriate) make a complaint on your 
behalf to claim compensation for the mis-selling of your PPI policy. Mr F signed the Letter of 
Engagement on 10 April 2019. In doing so he agreed that he had read and accepted My PPI 
Refunds Terms and Conditions; and that he gave them full authority to make a claim on 
my/our behalf.
Ive also seen a copy of My PPI Refunds Letter of Authority, also signed by Mr F on 10 April 
2019. This also gave My PPI Refund the authority to make a PPI mis-selling claim on Mr Fs 
behalf. The Terms and Conditions Mr F agreed to confirmed his cancellation rights and that 
My PPI Refund would charge a fee of 20% plus VAT on any successful claim.
My PPI Refund did the free PPI check, and Lender H wrote to them on 21 May to tell them 
Mr F had been sold PPI.Ive listened to the call that took place between Mr F and My PPI Refund on 31 May. My PPI 
Refund told Mr F that a PPI policy with Lender H had been found, and they asked him if he 
was happy for them to make the claim for him. He said he was. My PPI Refund then 
confirmed the process, that they charged a fee of 20% plus VAT and that Mr F had a 14-
day cooling-off period in which to change his mind. Mr F then gave My PPI Refund all the 
information they needed to make the claim on his behalf. 
Based on this call, I agree that Mr F authorised My PPI Refund to make the claim against 
Lender H on his behalf. My PPI Refund made the claim, which was successful on 11 July. 
My PPI Refund then invoiced Mr F for their fee.
My PPI Refund charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they undertook. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done 
for free. Where a claim was successful, their fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because My PPI Refunds fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr F 
doesnt make their fee unjustified.
Mr F is also unhappy about My PPI Refunds attempts to recover their fee. Its clear he 
disputed the companys fees, so I accept hed find any attempts to collect the fee unwanted 
and unacceptable. But My PPI Refund were entitled to charge their fee and were therefore 
entitled to attempt to collect this.
 My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about SN Marketing 
Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2019.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman