DRN-1928838
The complaint
Mr G complains about poor service from NewDay Ltd in connection with his Aqua credit 
card.
What happened
Mr G wanted to make the minimum payment on his credit card account using several 
instalments. But he didnt realise that the maximum number of payments he could make in 
any one month was five. Mr G considered this stopped him from making the minimum 
payment for September 2019.
Aqua applied interest to Mr Gs account which took him over his credit limit. Aqua charged 
an over limit fee which Mr G considered unfair.
He contacted Aqua through its online chat function, but had difficulty getting any meaningful 
response to his questions about how the interest and charges had been calculated and 
applied.
Mr G then contacted Aqua by phone. The business agreed to waive the over limit fee and 
interest as a gesture of goodwill. But a further over limit fee was then applied, which meant 
Mr G had to contact the bank again. This fee was also waived.
Mr G didnt make any further payments to his account, and late fees, over limit fees and 
interest continued to accrue.
Aqua said its fees and interest had been applied in line with the terms of the account. But it 
accepted that some of its service couldve been better when Mr G contacted it through its 
chat function. It offered £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator considered Aquas resolution to Mr Gs complaint was fair. He was satisfied 
that fees and interest had been applied in line with the account terms. So he considered the 
interest and charges Aqua had waived were reasonable. The investigator also considered 
Aquas offer of £75 was reasonable in light of the poor service Mr G received.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators conclusions so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Gs October statement, which show the payments he was making 
towards the minimum payment for September. Mr G considered it was unfair for Aqua to 
stop him from making a further payment, and then charge interest that took him over his 
credit limit. Mr G also objected to the over limit fee.
But Im satisfied that Aqua explained to Mr G that the payments hed made covered the 
minimum payment. Interest was charged because he had a balance on his account (of 
around £300), and not because he couldnt make the additional payment as hed wanted to.
I can appreciate that Mr G was unhappy with Aquas poor service through its chat function 
when he tried to find out what was going on. And its unfortunate that it took several chat 
attempts and phone calls before Aqua managed to explain why the charges had been made. 
But Im satisfied that the charges were made in line with the accounts terms and conditions. 
So I consider Aqua acted reasonably when it waived the fees as a gesture of goodwill.
Ive listened to the call between Aqua and Mr G where it was agreed that the fee and interest 
would be waived. Its unfortunate that the call handler didnt realise a further over limit fee 
would be charged almost as soon as the previous one had been refunded. So I can 
understand why Mr G was upset when he received a text chasing for payment.
Mr G had to call Aqua again and that fee was also waived. Again, I consider that was fair.
Aqua also offered £75 in recognition that its service couldve been better. I consider that was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
It seems Mr G understood there would be no further fees and interest applied to his account. 
But I think that may have been a misunderstanding on his part. Im not persuaded that Aqua 
agreed there would be no further fees or interest charged. 
From what Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied that Aquas resolution to the complaint is fair 
and reasonable, so I wont be asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman