DRN-2558665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about the actions of Santander UK Plc (and its solicitors) when 
they were buying a new property with a Santander mortgage.
What happened
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs H were in the process of selling their home and purchasing 
another for £1,125,000, with the assistance of a mortgage of just under £845,000 from 
Santander. Mr and Mrs H had instructed their own solicitors (SL) to act for them. 
SL werent on Santanders panel, so the bank instructed its own solicitors (OP) to represent 
the bank in relation to the mortgage. OP were Santanders agents and so Santander, as 
principal, is responsible for the acts or omissions of OP.
The valuation carried out for Santander revealed that the property had been affected by 
Japanese knotweed. A mortgage offer was issued dated 22 January 2019. However, this 
didnt address concerns with the knotweed, so a second mortgage offer was issued dated 
21 February 2019.
This second offer stipulated certain conditions that had to be complied with in relation to the 
knotweed. SL provided OP with the information Santander had requested in relation to the 
knotweed. 
I note that on 20 February 2019 SL asked OP if they had heard back from Santander on the 
knotweed approval. OP replied the same day to say theyd been told by Santander on 
18 February 2019 that they were dealing with the matter but OP said they would chase this.
On 19 February 2019 Santanders surveyor raised concerns about the knotweed report, and 
wanted confirmation that treatment had been carried out and was covered by an insurance-
backed guarantee. The surveyor said the property value should be Not Applicable, but that 
the after works figure should be £1,125,000.
On 20 February 2019 Mr H also contacted OP and explained that the knotweed  in one 
small area of the garden  was covered by a treatment plan, covered by a Lloyds of London 
insurance-backed guarantee and that the treatment had started last year as part of an 
ongoing five-year eradication. He asked OP to try to expedite matters.
On 22 February 2019 OP confirmed to SL there was a new mortgage offer dated 
21 February 2019 which contained a special condition in relation to knotweed. This said:
Japanese knotweed was noted growing close to the property. It is understood a 
treatment plan may be in place. This plant grows vigorously, is extremely difficult to 
eradicate and can cause damage to drains, patios, drives, etc. The valuation 
assumes that treatment is being undertaken by a competent specialist licensed to 
handled controlled waste and with a five-year insurance backed guarantee. Where 
the treatment is programmed to continue for several years the full cost of the 
treatment must be held in escrow or a Bondpay scheme.
(In the mortgage offer, curiously, this clause is written with every word capitalised, but for 
readability, I have converted it to standard formatting.)
The mortgage offer said that Santander may withdraw the offer if any one of a list of 
circumstances (set out in the offer) was to apply. I wont set out the list here, because none 
of the contingencies specified in the list applies to this transaction.
The mortgage offer said the value of the property was £1,125,000.
OP said Santander required confirmation that the points in relation to knotweed clause had 
been complied with before matters could proceed.
On 22 February 2019 at 13:35 SL provided a full list of answers to the points, as follows:
a treatment plan was in place;
it was being undertaken by a competent specialist (Mr H had, on 20 February 2019 
provided OP with details of this, and I understand Santander, its solicitors and 
surveyors had also seen the report prior to the mortgage offer dated 21 February 
2019 being issued);
the treatment was covered by a five-year insurance-backed guarantee;
the cost had been paid or will be paid as the seller had contracted to do so, as per an 
attached rider to the purchase contract.
SL asked if exchange could now be authorised and requested confirmation there were no 
further outstanding matters. On 22 February 2019 OP wrote to SL saying: We are pleased 
to confirm receipt of all pre-exchange requirements and confirm we will be pleased to 
accept your request for funds when you are in a position to send this to us Please confirm 
once contracts have been exchanged and the proposed completion date so we may forward 
the certificate of title to our clients for processing
On 23 February 2019, acting on the confirmation received from OP, SL exchanged 
contracts, with a completion date of 29 March 2019.
On 27 March 2019 Santander contacted OP after receiving the Certificate of Title. Santander 
said there was to be a whole retention because the surveyor had identified remedial work 
which required attention. The letter said In order to proceed, please could it be confirmed if 
these works have now been carried out by an appropriate specialist and need to be covered 
by an insurance backed guarantee. As a further condition, the payment for this treatment 
needs to be held in escrow or bondpay.
On 28 March 2019 OP told Santander that the funds werent being held in escrow or 
bondpay because 50% had already been paid and two further payments were due in the 
near future (this was provided for in the purchase contract). OP asked Santander if it was 
now happy to proceed and release the mortgage advance. 
On 28 March 2019 Mr and Mrs H were told that funds werent available to complete their 
purchase. Santander said that the mortgage application had been referred back to the valuer 
in relation to potential issues around the knotweed. 
Mr and Mrs H, after taking advice from their solicitors and financial adviser, decided to 
complete on their sale, move out of the property and find temporary accommodation, in 
order not to cause the chain to collapse and be in breach of their sale contract. They also 
had to make arrangements with the removals company to store their belongings. Furthermore, Mr and Mrs H were in breach of their contract to purchase their new home, and 
were in danger of forfeiting the contractual deposit of £112,500. Completion eventually took 
place on 2 April 2019, and Mr and Mrs H were finally able to move into the property on 
5 April 2019 when the removals firm delivered their belongings.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Santander. In its first final response dated 13 June 2019, 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the solicitors had sent in the wrong 
Certificate of Title requesting the funds. Santander also said it required its conditions relating 
to knotweed to be complied with before it could agree to the mortgage proceeding. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint.
Santander issued another final response in which the bank stated that the mortgage offer 
dated 21 February 2019 had conditions that must be met regarding the knotweed. OP had 
sent in a Certificate of Title requesting the funds for completion, but this was for the first 
mortgage offer dated 22 January 2019. Santander tried to get in touch with OP and 
eventually the matter was sorted out.
Santander said that  you felt you had to move due to contracts you had previously 
exchanged but we would not advise a customer to do this until funds had been released. 
Santander cannot be held accountable for this decision .
Santander accepted its customer service could have been better and offered Mr and Mrs H 
compensation of £300.
Santander also said that SL was responsible for ensuring the completion was to the date of 
the 29 March 2019. Santander also maintained that it was allowed to withdraw the 
mortgage offer at any time.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs H complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint, and thought it should be 
upheld. He asked Santander to pay the costs of temporary accommodation from 30 March 
2019 to 5 April 2019, the charges imposed by the vendor for failing to complete in time, any 
additional expenses in relation to the removals company and interest at 8% per annum 
simple on those sums from 29 March 2019. The investigator thought the £300 compensation 
for trouble and upset was fair and reasonable.
Neither Mr and Mrs H nor Santander agreed with the investigators findings. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt think the compensation awarded was sufficient. Santander reiterated that it thought the 
fault lay with Mr and Mrs Hs solicitors for exchanging contracts before the release of the 
mortgage funds.
Provisional decision of 16 December 2020
In my provisional decision, I made the following findings.
Santander says that contracts shouldnt have been exchanged until the mortgage 
funds were released. Santander seems to be under the misapprehension that 
exchange of contracts and completion take place simultaneously. Santander appears 
to be suggesting it was SLs fault that completion didnt happen because contracts 
were exchanged before the mortgage funds were released.
But that isnt how it works. The usual conveyancing process is that the solicitors 
acting for the purchaser investigate title, carry out all necessary searches, obtain a 
mortgage offer, ensure all conditions in the offer have been complied with and then exchange contracts with a completion date set usually 28 days ahead. Before 
completion there are further requisitions on title and searches, and about a week 
before completion a Certificate of Title is submitted to the lender for the funds to be 
released prior to the completion date.
As SL werent on Santanders panel, Santander had its own solicitors, OP. Im 
satisfied it was the responsibility of OP to make sure any conditions relating to the 
mortgage offer had been complied with before authorising SL to exchange contracts. 
It was also OPs responsibility, after SL confirmed everything was ready for 
completion, to request the funds from Santander.
Im satisfied that the only reason SL exchanged contracts on Mr and Mrs Hs 
purchase is because OP confirmed that all pre-contract requirements  including the 
special condition about knotweed  had been complied with. Whether OP had 
verified all was in order with Santander or not, Im satisfied that SL was entitled to 
rely on OPs assurance that exchange of contracts could go ahead. At that point, on 
23 February 2019, Mr and Mrs H were committed to complete their purchase on 
29 March 2019.
Im satisfied SL submitted the Certificate of Title to OP in plenty of time for OP to 
request the funds for completion. Santander initially said the failure to provide funds 
in time for was because OP sent in the wrong request form. If that happened, thats 
not the fault of Mr and Mrs H or SL. Santander also said that the requirements about 
knotweed hadnt been complied with. But SL had provided the relevant reports and 
information to OP prior to exchange of contracts, and received confirmation from OP 
that all pre-contract requirements had been complied with. If this was untrue, 
Santander or OP should have said so before contracts were exchanged, not two 
days before completion.
I also note that Santander said the mortgage offer can be withdrawn at any time. This 
is correct  but only if one of the events listed in the special conditions occurs. Im 
satisfied that none of the events listed applies here. The term binding offer does not 
necessarily mean that there can be no conditions attached, but it does require that 
once any such conditions are fulfilled, Santander cannot then back out of entering 
into the contract on the terms specified in the offer..
The available evidence suggests that there was a failure of communication between 
Santander and OP before exchange of contracts in relation to the knotweed. I dont 
know where the fault lies  but the fact remains that OP confirmed everything was in 
order and that SL could exchange contracts. Unfortunately, the consequences for Mr 
and Mrs H of Santanders failures has resulted in both financial and personal 
detriment.
Although we do not deal with things in the same way as a court, Im satisfied that, 
from a legal perspective, the actions of Santander and OP mean that an estoppel has 
arisen. Estoppel is an equitable principle which can be explained as follows:
Party A makes a clear and unambiguous statement that something is true;
Party B acts in reliance of this;
Party A is aware that there are implications for Party B of relying on what Party A 
has said;
Party Bs reliance on what Party A said was reasonable and foreseeable;
Party B suffered loss as a result of relying on what Party A said;
Party A cannot then deny the consequences of its untrue statement.In this case, SL acted in reliance of OPs confirmation that Santander was satisfied 
all special conditions had been complied with and that contracts could be exchanged. 
As a result, contracts were exchanged  binding Mr and Mrs H to their purchase. 
SLs actions were reasonable and foreseeable and OP would have been aware of 
the implications of allowing Mr and Mrs H to enter into a binding contract. From a 
legal perspective, Santander is thus estopped from denying the consequences of its 
actions.
It wasnt until 27 March 2019  the day before completion  that Santander referred 
OP to the surveyors comments in his report dated 19 February 2019 (which pre-
dated the second mortgage offer). This was the first time I can see that Santander 
mentioned a retention of the mortgage advance. But in any event, Mr and Mrs H had 
already provided the information Santander required in its special condition relating 
to knotweed (which was inserted into the second mortgage offer dated 21 February 
2019 following the surveyors comments on 19 February 2019), and had had 
confirmation from OP that this was satisfactory. 
I dont know if OP received confirmation from Santander or its surveyors before its 
letter to SL dated 22 February 2019 that the information provided by Mr and Mrs H 
and SL about the knotweed was satisfactory. If OP didnt receive confirmation, thats 
a matter between Santander and OP. But what is not disputed is that on 22 February 
2019 OP confirmed that there was no further information required and contracts 
could be exchanged. 
Im satisfied SL would not have exchanged contracts without OPs express 
confirmation that they could do so. Because Mr and Mrs H had acted to their 
detriment in binding themselves to a contract in reliance of what OP had told SL, Im 
satisfied that it would not be right, fair or reasonable to allow Santander to avoid the 
consequences of its actions in relation to the issues that later arose when Mr and 
Mrs H were unable to fulfil their contractual obligations as anticipated on 29 March 
2019. 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H had provided evidence of their 
financial losses, as follows:
temporary accommodation 30 March  5 April 2019 £     531.72
interest charged by the vendor for late completion £     616.44
additional moving costs £  3,120.00
£  4,268.16
They were also claiming additional legal fees and loss of earnings during the period when 
they and their solicitors were having to deal with the matter.
I was minded to award those fees if evidence in support could be provided. I also thought 
Santander should pay compensation of £2,000 for trouble and upset. I invited both parties to 
respond and asked Santander to provide a copy of OPs original file.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H provided a breakdown of the legal fees and loss of earnings claimed. Mr H 
also said he wanted to claim his expenses for the time spent bringing the complaint.Santander wasnt able to provide OPs original file but sent in what correspondence it could 
find between the bank and OP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed my provisional findings and taken note of what the parties have said in 
response to my provisional decision.
Santander has not put forward any arguments to contradict the findings I reached in my 
provisional decision. The only documents it has provided do not cause me to change my 
findings on the main issue in the complaint  which are that OP, by confirming there were no 
outstanding issues as far as Santander was concerned in relation to Japanese knotweed, 
caused SL to commit Mr and Mrs H to their sale and purchase by exchanging contracts. This 
assertion by OP was incorrect and led to the events that resulted in the complaint being 
brought.
In the circumstances, I can see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision. Im satisfied that the complaint should be upheld.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs H have said about their additional expenses. Im satisfied 
that their claim for Mr Hs loss of earnings is justified, given the gravity of the situation and 
the need to try to resolve it with some urgency. Mr H has provided documentary evidence 
with which I am satisfied.
Ive also noted the claim for legal fees. Mr H has explained that initially a fixed fee was 
negotiated for the conveyancing on the sale and purchase, but that, once the problems with 
the mortgage and completion of the transaction arose, additional  and urgent  work was 
required. The solicitors have detailed the extra work they carried out over several days on an 
hourly basis, for both a partner and associate. Im satisfied that, given the urgency of the 
situation and the potential implications for Mr and Mrs H, the amount of additional fees is a 
justifiable expense which Santander should cover.
Mr H wants to claim compensation for the time taken to bring the complaint. This isnt 
something we generally award; the trouble to which a consumer has been put in bringing a 
complaint is generally reflected in the award for distress and inconvenience. Given this, I am 
not awarding any additional amount for Mr Hs time or trouble in bringing the complaint.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Santander should reimburse the following expenses incurred by Mr and 
Mrs H, which are a consequence of the actions of OP.
temporary accommodation 30 March  5 April 2019 £     531.72
interest charged by the vendor for late completion £     616.44
additional moving costs £  3,120.00
loss of earnings £  1,940.00
solicitors additional costs £  6,250.00
Total £12,458.16In addition, Santander must pay interest at 8% simple per annum from 29 March 2019 (the 
date of completion) to the date of payment.
(If Santander considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so, but should give Mr and Mrs H the necessary certificate, if they ask for it, 
so that they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if they are entitled to do so.)
I am also satisfied that there was significant trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs H as a 
result of Santanders actions. In the circumstances Im satisfied that a substantial award of 
compensation is due for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs H. I direct 
Santander to pay compensation of £2,000 for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Santander 
UK Plc to compensate Mr and Mrs H for their financial losses and distress and 
inconvenience as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman