DRN-3104453
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy with Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) handling of claim she 
made under a warranty she held for a home appliance. 
What happened
In January 2021, Miss Rs washing machine developed a fault. She contacted D&G, who 
directed her to the manufacturer instead. Miss R says she made a number of calls to the 
manufacturer but wasnt able to reach them so contacted D&G again. Miss R was given a 
second phone number for another engineer, who said they couldnt visit her property. 
Miss R says she was then told she should find a local engineer online, arrange for them to 
inspect the washing machine and then invoice D&G. Miss R was concerned about this, 
thinking that most engineers would be reluctant to invoice a company without confirmation of 
payment. Miss R said in the face of what she believed to be little progress, her son replaced 
her washing machine. To put things right, she made a formal complaint, and asked D&G to 
refund her premiums and pay back the cost of the new washing machine. 
D&G responded to Miss Rs complaint in March 2021. D&G acknowledged Miss R had 
difficulty in reaching the manufacturer and said this was due to high call volumes. They paid 
her £10 in respect of the inconvenience she experienced as a result of this. 
Unhappy with this, Miss R referred her complaint this service. Our investigator didnt think 
D&G had acted unfairly. As Miss R didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted Miss R had difficulty in getting through to the company appointed to carry out 
the repairs. She then tried another without success. I can see this would have been 
frustrating for her as shed explained her need to have a functioning washing machine. 
Ive considered what D&G were required to do under the policy terms. Ive copied the 
relevant section below:
Where we authorise a repair we will pay call-out charges, the cost of labour and the 
cost of parts (as long as these are not covered by another guarantee or warranty on 
the product). Only engineers approved by us are authorised to carry out repairs 
under this policy, unless we agree otherwise in advance If we authorise a repair 
but are unable to find an engineer, well permit you to use your chosen engineer. You 
will have to pay them and claim the cost back from us. 
The policy terms are clear in setting out the options available where a repair is needed. 
Either Miss R could have waited to contact one of D&Gs authorised repairers, or she could 
have arranged for her own engineer to carry out the repair. And this option was put to Miss R 
during one of her conversations with D&G, but she declined this, saying she wasnt in a 
position to cover the cost of the repairs before claiming this back. 
 
However, having considered the policy terms and the content of Miss Rs first two phone 
calls with D&G, Im satsifed both these options were made clear to her. 
I appreciate Miss R says she wasnt successful in contacting the approved repairer I 
understand Miss R had her reasons for choosing not to instruct her own engineer. But Im 
satisfied Miss R was offered both options to have the repair carried out  either an 
authorised engineer appointed by D&G or to have her own engineer costs refunded.  
Miss R says with no resolution in sight, she had to arrange for her washing machine 
replaced. Shes told us this happened in February. However, from looking at the notes 
provided by D&G I can see some calls in the first couple of days from when she reported the 
fault, but then nothing until after Miss R had replaced the washing machine. She confirmed 
shed taken this course of action in a number of calls to D&G in early March.
Miss R has asked that I direct D&G to both refund the premiums she paid for the policy and 
cover the cost of her new washing machine. Im not going to do so as I dont think that would 
be a fair outcome. 
I appreciate Miss R was not able to arrange for an appointment for the repair to take place 
as quickly as Miss R wanted. The policy does not specify any time limits in response to this, 
but I dont think it was unreasonable that an appointment could not be arranged within the 
first couple of days. I acknowledge this was inconvenient. Miss R was then provided with 
another option under the policy, but she chose not to take this up.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy would not have delivered what Miss R was 
entitled to. She chose to take her own alternative action and replace the washing machine. It 
follows that Im not intending to direct D&G to refund of the premiums paid or reimburse for 
the cost of the replacement washing machine. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman