DRN-3639676
The complaint
Ms S complains that the mobile phone she was supplied with under a fixed sum loan with 
Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Mobile) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Ms S was supplied with a mobile phone in August 2019, financed by a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Virgin Mobile. In September 2020 Ms S told Virgin Mobile that shed 
experienced various problems with the devices operation, particularly in relation to not 
being able to make or receive calls.
The device was inspected on a number of subsequent occasions by both Virgin Mobile 
as well as the manufacturer. I also understand that whilst components were replaced, 
fault could not be found with it. Unhappy that the issues persisted, Ms S raised a 
complaint about the devices quality with Virgin Mobile in December 2020.
In January 2021 Virgin Mobile told Ms S that it would inspect the device again, but if 
fault couldnt be found, there was nothing more it could do. It also said it would allow 
Ms S to return the device and cancel the agreement. I understand Ms S chose not 
to do that.
It seems that Ms S continued to raise issue with Virgin Mobile until it issued a further 
response to her concerns in July 2021. It offered, as a gesture of goodwill and in 
respect of any inconvenience caused, to refund Ms S with three months worth of 
payments in respect of her fixed sum loan, as well as one months worth of payments 
in respect of an associated airtime agreement. It also said that Ms S might be able to 
make a claim on her insurance policy to get a replacement mobile phone, for which 
shed need to pay a £60 excess.
Ms S referred her complaint to this service in August 2021. She asked for the 
payments shed made to be refunded and for the agreement to be ended.
In its initial submission to this service, Virgin Mobile suggested it wasnt persuaded that 
there had been a fault with the mobile phone. Nonetheless it offered to end the 
agreement and let Ms S keep the mobile phone without need for further payment from 
her.
Our investigator put Virgin Mobiles offer to Ms S but she declined it. She said she 
hadnt had a fully functional mobile phone from one month after receiving it and had 
made payments for the service, mobile phone as well as mobile phone insurance. She 
also asked to be compensated for the inconvenience shed been caused.
Our investigator considered all of the points Ms S had made about the quality of the 
mobile phone shed been supplied with, but ultimately, they werent persuaded that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. They made particular reference to the time it took for Ms 
S to report the issues as well as both the manufacturer and Virgin Mobile being unable 
to find fault.
They said that Virgin Mobiles offer to end the agreement and allow Ms S to keep the 
device was fair at the point it had been made. They also said that the outstanding 
balance of the agreement at that point had been £90, and if Ms S had made further 
repayments or even repaid the agreement, shed expect Virgin Mobile to pay that sum 
to Ms S. In respect of insurance payments, our investigator didnt think they could fairly 
answer that point and suggested Ms S might be able to make a separate complaint 
about her insurance policy should she wish.
Virgin Mobile agreed with our investigator. Ms S disagreed. She said that she hadnt 
reported the issue for some time because she hadnt been aware that she was missing 
calls. She maintained that there is a fault with the mobile phone and that it ought to 
have been replaced under warranty.
Our investigator explained that they werent persuaded of a fault given the evidence 
theyd been presented. They offered Ms S the opportunity to provide evidence from an 
expert to demonstrate a fault. They clarified that the complaint wed considered was 
about the quality of the goods supplied under a regulated agreement and Virgin 
Mobiles responsibility under that agreement. They suggested that Ms S could take 
issue with the supplier or warranty provider if she wanted to, but that it wouldnt be 
considered as part of this complaint.
The case was passed to me and I made a decison on it. In summary, I said;
Ms S has gone into detail about what she believes to be the faults with the mobile 
phone she was supplied with. Whilst I can assure her that Ive carefully considered all of 
her submissions, I dont intend to mirror that level of detail, simply because I dont find it 
necessary to explain what I think a fair outcome is.
The quality of the goods supplied to Ms S
Ms Ss complaint is about the quality of a mobile phone acquired using a fixed sum 
loan agreement. Thats a regulated agreement, and one which this service has the 
power to consider a complaint about. We dont, in the context of this complaint, have 
the power to consider a complaint about any associated  and unregulated  airtime 
agreements Ms S may also have been sold alongside her regulated loan.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who 
buy goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider 
is legally answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. In 
practice that means if Ms S has a claim against the supplier for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, she also has a like claim against the finance provider.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that 
any goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  defined as whether they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Satisfactory quality also refers to the durability of the goods.
So, in the context of Ms Ss complaint, I need to determine whether theres been a 
breach of contract on the grounds that she was supplied with goods which were of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Ms S was supplied with a brand-new mobile phone, so Id expect it to be free from 
faults for a considerable time and also to be sufficiently durable.The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, 
if the goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, its assumed that the fault 
was present when the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to 
suggest otherwise. Outside of those six months, its for Ms S to show that the goods 
were not of satisfactory quality.
The mobile phone was supplied to Ms S in August 2019, and it was some 13 months 
before she reported faults to Virgin Mobile. I think its fair to suggest that if the device 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, Id have expected the faults to have 
become clear well within that time.
I acknowledge that Ms S says that she wasnt aware of a fault whereby she wouldnt 
receive calls during that time and that the fault had been present since a month after 
supply.
However, Im not persuaded that it ought reasonably to have taken 13 months to 
identify such a fault if it had been present almost the whole time. So, I think that the 
onus to demonstrate whether the device was faulty when it was supplied falls on Ms S 
here. Overall, Ms S hasnt presented me with sufficient evidence to persuade me that 
the mobile phone suffered faults within the first 13 months of ownership.
Additionally, I dont think weve actually been presented with clear and persuasive 
evidence that there is a fault with the device. Im aware that has been inspected by the 
manufacturer on a number of occasions. It seems that whilst components were 
replaced, it wasnt actually able to find a fault with the device  the manufacturer reports 
provided by Virgin Mobile suggest that the mobile phone had passed the engineers 
tests. Given the number of inspections the device underwent without a fault being 
identified, Im not persuaded that theres a fault with the device, and Im therefore not 
persuaded that Ms S was provided with goods which were of unsatisfactory quality  
whether at the point of supply or on the grounds of it not being sufficiently durable.
Given the above, Im not satisfied that theres been a breach of contract.
Lastly, Im aware that Ms S asserts that her device ought to have been repaired or 
replaced under warranty or insurance products. From what Ive been provided it 
appears that the device was covered by a manufacturers warranty. Whether or not it 
was Virgin Mobiles responsibility to help Ms S make a claim under any warranty, I 
dont think it acted unreasonably by deciding it wasnt appropriate given no fault could 
be identified.
With reference to any insurance products Ms S was provided with; as our 
investigator asserted, this complaint is solely about whether Virgin Mobile fairly 
handled Ms Ss complaint about the quality of goods she was supplied with. Ive 
seen that Virgin Mobile told Ms S she might be able to make an insurance claim 
though. Should Ms S wish to complain about a claim she believes ought to have 
been made in relation to an insurance policy, she may wish to raise it with the 
policy provider in the first instance, or seek independent advice about how to do 
so.
Virgin Mobiles offers to resolve the complaint
As Ive outlined above, Virgin Mobile has made more than one offer to resolve Ms Ss 
complaint. Our investigator said that its offer to end the agreement with nothing further 
to pay was a fair way to resolve things. They also said theyd expect Virgin Mobile to pay Ms S the cash equivalent if shed subsequently repaid the agreement.
However, thats not something I intend to require of Virgin Mobile. I say this because I 
dont intend to uphold Ms Ss complaint about the quality of the goods she was 
supplied with under her fixed sum loan agreement. As such, I cannot fairly require 
Virgin Mobile to take further action.
All of the offers Virgin Mobile made were put to Ms S and she chose not to accept 
them. If Ms S decides she now wants to accept them, should they still be available, Ill 
leave it to her and Virgin Mobile to liaise regarding this.
Virgin Mobile said it had nothing further to add. Ms S made a number of points. She said, in 
summary;
- My decision implied that the device works, but it doesnt;
- She had declined Virgin Mobiles initial offer to resolve things because it wouldve 
required her to send the device back by going to a post office at the height of the 
corona virus pandemic, which she didnt want to do;
- She was told by a repairer on behalf of the manufacturer that the device had been 
effectively rebuild but still didnt work correctly;
- She was told she was unable to make a claim on her insurance policy whilst the 
device was under warranty; and
- If the device is under warranty and she is still under contract to Virgin Mobile then 
she should have a working phone.
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my 
provisional decision, Ill explain why. 
Its clear that Ms S feels strongly that the device she was provided with doesnt work 
correctly. And its understandable that shed like to be provided with a device that works 
during the time her loan was active. However, as frustrating as Ms S might find it, under the 
fixed sum loan Ms S was provided there wasnt an obligation for Virgin Mobile to ensure that 
she was provided with a device which functioned correctly for the duration of the agreement. 
The relevant legislation, rules and guidance I referenced previously set out says that Virgin 
Mobile is responsible for putting things right if Ms S was supplied with goods which werent 
of satisfactory quality. To require further action of Virgin Mobile in the circumstances, Id 
need to be satisfied that the device supplied to Ms S was of unsatisfactory quality, either at 
the point of supply, or on the grounds that they werent sufficiently durable.  
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. As my provisional decision explained, given 
the time it took to report a fault, the onus is on Ms S to demonstrate the device wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Having considered the responses I received to my provisional decision, I remain of the view 
that if the device had been faulty when supplied, the fault wouldve been known to Ms S 
soon after and I would have expected her to have reported it. Ive also not been persuaded 
that the device supplied wasnt sufficiently durable. I say this not only because the evidence 
suggests the device was free from fault for 13 months, but because it seems the 
manufacturer cannot find fault with it. Ive not been persuaded by the evidence Ms S has 
provided that there is a fault with the device. 
So, overall, I remain unpersuaded that Ms S was supplied with a device which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
It's unfortunate to hear of the reasons as to why Ms S was reluctant to accept an offer to 
resolve things Virgin Mobile had previously made. However, given that I dont think the 
complaint about the devices quality should be upheld, I wouldnt have expected Virgin 
Mobile to have made that offer, and I dont find fault with the terms of the offer. Ill leave it to 
Ms S and Virgin Mobile to liaise regarding the availability of offers made previously. 
Lastly, I acknowledge Ms Ss frustration regarding her not being able to make an insurance 
claim whilst under warranty. As explained in my provisional decision, if Ms S wants to 
complain about a claim she believes ought to have been made in relation to an insurance 
policy, she may wish to raise it with the policy provider in the first instance, or seek 
independent advice about how to do so. But overall, I think that Virgin Mobile handled her 
concerns about the devices quality appropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman