DRN-3637677
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont remove the adverse 
information it reported to the credit reference agencies about her current account. 
What happened
Miss T was over her arranged overdraft limit for a calendar month and Halifax reported this. 
Miss T says this was a disproportionate response as she was barely over her limit, and the 
bank did not give her notice of its intent. She wants the adverse data removing. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ts complaint. She said Miss Ts account was over its 
£100 overdraft limit from 20 September to 25 October 2021 by £19.68. Halifax has 
evidenced it sent a number of text messages telling Miss T she was overlimit, asking her to 
pay in funds and warning her she would be charged. It wrote to her on 21 October 2021 
setting out what she needed to do and explaining her credit score may be affected as it has 
to report to the agencies. 
The investigator found Halifax had made no error. The terms of Miss Ts account set out that 
using an unarranged overdraft may damage your credit score and the letter of 21 October 
2021 repeated this. And what Halifax reported accurately reflected how Miss T was 
managing her account. It has a duty to do this.
Unhappy with this assessment Miss T asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, she 
said there was no evidence Halifax had warned her it was going to report her account status 
to the agencies. It is disingenuous to suggest Halifax can rely on terms and conditions she 
should have read some years ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
When Miss T went over her arranged overdraft limit Halifax sent her messages highlighting 
this, and explaining she may be charged. To clarify, these messages did not give notice the 
bank would be reporting that she was overlimit, but neither our investigator nor Halifax have 
said they did. Nor was there an obligation for it to do this. Miss T maintains she did not 
receive the texts Halifax sent. But the bank has shared a report showing it sent them, and 
they were delivered. So I cant fairly hold it liable for Miss T not receiving them. The letter it 
sent on 21 October 2021 did refer to the impact on her credit score, however. As did the 
terms of her overdraft. 
I disagree with Miss T that it is not right for the bank to rely on terms she may not have seen 
for years  they are the terms of her account that she agreed to, and must be what governs 
how the bank operates her account. 
Halifax reported the arranged limit and the actual balance for September 2021, showing a 
missed payment. Miss T feels it was disproportionate as she was hardly overlimit  but the 
reporting is transparent and shows that she was only £17 over her limit at September month 
end. This was an accurate reflection of her current account as, despite the text prompts,   
Miss T did not bring her account back within the arranged limit. Halifax has a duty to report 
accurately to the credit reference agencies.
It follows I dont find Halifax did anything wrong and there are no grounds for me to instruct it 
to remove or alter the adverse data on Miss Ts file. 
Miss T has more recently raised an issue about the way Halifax asks customers to update 
their contact number, but this does not change my conclusion about her request for the 
adverse data to be removed for the reasons set out above. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman