DRN-3945476
The complaint
Mr K complains that a business Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) is responsible for, 
provided unsuitable advice to take out a Stakeholder pension. He says instead he should've 
been advised to look at his options within his employer's scheme and take out Added Years.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my findings in my provisional decision of 25 
January. Both parties have accepted my decision but for reference I have included the 
background and findings below  which forms part of this decision.
In 2004  Mr K met with an adviser  and it was recommended  he take out a Stakeho lder pension  
and contribute  £300  a month  which was the maximum  he could  contribute  at the time due to 
regulatory  limits.  A waiver  of contribut ion with a month ly premium  of £7.38  was also taken  out.
The report  produced  at the time by the adviser  said "You confirmed  that, at this time, you wished  
our discussions  strictly  limited  to the provision  of additional  pension  funding .
Consequently , I have  given  advice  in this area only, and I have  not taken  account  of any wider 
financial  planning  needs  which  you may have '.
Mr K's provided evidence  to show  that his private  earnings  at the time were  £6,541 in 03/04 
whereas  his main  employment  was £63,214 for the same  time period .
Mr K said he recently  spoke  to a colleague  who'd  told him he'd had a complaint  upheld  stating  
Added  Years  should've  been  recommended.  And this is what led Mr K to comp lain after he 
looked  into his own situation.
Our invest igator  looked  into matters  and thought  the complaint  should  be uphe ld. He said that Mr 
K went  for pens ion advice as he wished  to make  additional  provision, but the adviser  focused  
only on his private  earnings  whereas  Mr K had advantageous  options with his employer 's 
scheme . He said the adviser  should 've estab lished  these  options  and had he done  so, a suitable  
recommendat ion given  Mr K's circumstances  would've  been  to take out Added  Years.
Wesleyan  responded  to say it disagreed . It said whilst the report  referred  to future  pension  
provision,  it's clear  the advice  was targeted  specifically  towards  Mr K's self-employed  earnings  
only.  So Mr K would've  been  able to query  the NHS  provision  or why it was not included  in the 
report.
The investigator  responded  to say the simple  answer  to that, is if Mr K wasn't  informed  of all 
of his options  how would  he know  to query  other  sources.
What  I've provisionally  decided  - and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Legislation  at the time required  financial  advisers  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  their 
advice  was suitable.  COB  set out the principles  that should  apply  when  giving  advice  such  as:
A firm must  conduct  its business  with due skill, care and diligence.
A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests  of its customers  and treat them  fairly.
A firm must  take reasonable  care to ensure  the suitability of its advice  and 
discretionary  decisions for any customer  who is entitled to rely upon  its 
judgment.
Furthermore,  there  was specific  rules  for sales  where  in-house  alternatives  were  also 
available.
IFAs  were  usually  required  to follow  the FIMBRA  rules.  The Personal  Investment  Authority  
(PIA - a predecessor  of the Financial  Conduct  Authority)  adopted  the FIMBRA  rules  when  it 
took over.
In 1988,  FIMBRA  said that an adviser  should:
Not make  a recommendation  unless  it believed,  having  carried  out reasonable  
care in forming its belief, that no transaction in any other  such  investment  (of which  
it ought  reasonably  to be aware)  would  be likely to secure  the objectives  of the 
consumer  more  advantageously,  and
Take  reasonable  care to include in any recommendation to a person, other  than a 
professional  investor, sufficient  information to provide  that person  with an 
adequate  and reasonable  basis  for deciding  whether  to accept  the 
recommendation.
The Personal  Investment  Authority  released  update  20 in May 1996.  This reiterated  what  
FIMBRA  already  expected,  that the IFA should  establish  what  in-house  alternatives  to the 
FSAVC  were  available  and discuss  the specific  differences  between  them  when  making  their 
recommendation.
It said this discussion  should  include:
The difference  in charges  and expenses  between  the FSAVC  and AVC
The choice  of investments
The availability  of Added  Years  and the number  of years  that could  be purchased
The degree of personal  control  and privacy
The age at which  benefits  could  be taken
The degree  of portability  on changing  jobs or becoming self-employed
The introduction  to the update  also referred  to the lower  charges  under  an in-house  AVC  in 
general  terms.  It said:
'Charges  under  in-scheme  AVCs  will usually  be lower  than those  under  FSAVCs,  reflecting  
economies  of scale,  rebated  commission  or a contribution  to administration  expenses  by 
the employer.  Of all the differences  between  the two routes,  this is likely  to exert  the 
greatest  impact  on which  route  would  offer the greater  benefits  to the client.'
When  this sale took place  in 2004,  FSAVC's  had been  usurped  by Personal  Pensions  so 
very few continued  to be sold but the above  still applies  to the Stakeholder  pension  which  
essentially  took the place  of the FSAVC  in this context.
The advice  occurred  approximately  18 years  ago and unfortunately  some  of the documentary  
evidence  is no longer  available.  It appears  from what  we do have  that Wesleyan  did carry  out 
a fact-find  although  it is has since  been  lost. The evidence  shows  the adviser  wasn't  tied to 
Wesleyan  products  and so could  advise  on the whole  market.
Once  the adviser  had gathered  information  about  Mr K, it would've  been  identified  that Mr K 
had an Occupational  Pension  Scheme  (OPS)  that he was part of with the NHS.  And the 
adviser  would've  known  that Mr K could  add to his OPS  provision  through  an in-house  AVC  or 
Added  Years.It was agreed  the advice  would  only be in relation  to additional  pension  funding  at the start of 
the report  (as set out in the background).
The report  went  on to say ' You are eligible  to contribute  to a Stakeholder  Pension  Plan,  
approved  by the Inland  Revenue,  because  you are self-employed'
And
'The above  plan is in relation  to your self-employed  earnings  and in the tax year ended  
2003/04  your profits  were  less than £18000.00  and the maximum  of £300.00  per month  has 
been  applied  for.'
And
'During  our meeting,  I explained  to you that you could  arrange  your Stakeholder  Pension  
directly  with one of the providers  designated  by your employer:
You can do so without  advice  or with limited  advice  from the provider  in respect  
of that scheme  only.
The charges  are relatively  low.
The charges  do not allow  for payment  for independent  financial  advice
We cannot  offer you advice  or service  in connection  with these  schemes.
I also explained  that in choosing  Professional  Affinity  Group  Services  (now  Wesleyan):
You benefit  from our initial  and ongoing  advice  and service  in connection  with 
your Stakeholder  Pension.
Your  plan charges  will be higher  in order  to pay for our advice  and services  but 
they will still be within  the 1% per annum  Stakeholder  cap.
You confirmed  that you wished  to use our services'
It's clear  the advice  didn't  meet  the rules  and guidance  set out above.  Little  to no information  was 
given  about  the in-house  options.
The advice  focused  on Mr K's private  earnings  which  only made  up a small  proportion  of his 
funds  that could  be used  to provide  additional  pension  funding.  If Mr K was only
looking  for advice  about  additional  pension  funding  from his private  earnings,  I'd have  
expected  the adviser  to note that Mr K had in-house  options  but for what  would  have  to be very 
compelling  reasons,  didn't  wish to discuss  that further.  However,  there  is nothing  to suggest  
this occurred.
The adviser  should've  told Mr K he could  make  additional  contributions  via Added  Years  or the 
in-house  AVC  and he also should've  told Mr K that the in-house  AVC  was a cheaper  
alternative  to the Stakeholder  (purchased  with advice  or through  the NHS  approved  non- 
advised  Stakeholder  plans).  Wesleyan  may argue  he couldn't  because  these  earnings  came  
from his self-employed  work  which  wasn't  pensionable  with the NHS.  But these  earnings  were  
only a very small  proportion  of Mr K's annual  income  and he had plenty  of room  within  the 
NHS  schemes  to make  additional  contributions.  Instead  Mr K could've  used  his NHS  earnings  
to make  additional  pension  contributions  and used  his private  earnings  to cover  whatever  that 
proportion  of his NHS  earnings  were  being  used  for. It's worth  noting  that the adviser  couldn't  
charge  any commission  for advice  given  to contribute  to the in-house  options.
So I don't  think  the advice  met the requirements  of the time.  There  is no evidence  to suggest  the 
adviser  explored  all of Mr K's options  to provide  a suitable  recommendation.I have  to consider  what  Mr K would've  done  had he been  fully informed  and been  given  
suitable  advice.  Ultimately,  it is very hard to now determine  what  Mr K would've  done  18 years  
ago had he been  informed  of all his options,  so I've had to make  a number  of presumptions  
based  on the balance  of probabilities  given  the limited  information  we do have.
Mr K's said he would've  taken  out Added  Years  if he'd been  told about  this option  and our 
investigator  agreed.  But I'm not satisfied  on the balance  of probabilities  that this is what  Mr K 
would've  done  at the time.  Alongside  Added  Years  - Mr K would've  also had the option  of 
increasing  his contributions  into the NHS  scheme  through  its in-house  AVC.  The NHS  had 
negotiated  special  arrangements  with no commission  and so this would've  been  a cheaper  
alternative  to the Stakeholder  and Added  Years.
We know  from many  other  similar  cases  that in 2008  the NHS  withdrew  the Added  Years  
option.  And in 2007  it had written  to all its employees  who this affected  to let them  know  this 
was their last chance  to opt for Added  Years  before  it was withdrawn.
Mr K would've been  made  aware  of this option,  but he didn't  take it up. I think this is a likely  
indication  of what  Mr K would've  done  in 2004. It's only three  years  after  and so I think  some  
relevance  can be drawn  from  that. And it points  to not wishing  to put additional funds  towards  
his retirement  on top of what  he already  had in place.
I appreciate  the fact Mr K was already  making  contributions  to the Stakeholder  could've  
affected  his thinking,  but it was within  his choice  to stop contributions  to the Stakeholder  and 
opt instead  for Added  Years,  or contribute  to both if he'd wished  to make  further  additional  
pension  provision.
However,  Added  Years  are expensive,  and this is usually  why employees  choose  not to take 
up this option.  From  our knowledge  of previous  cases  it seems  the NHS  gave  members  
information  about  how many  Added  Years  they could  purchase  and how much  this would  cost.  
It looks  like Mr K had scope  for an additional  ten years  and from the information  we've  been  
provided  the cost to Mr K would've  been  around  9% of his NHS  earnings  a year.
At the time of advice,  9% a year of Mr K's NHS  earnings  would  be approximately  £6,000  - 
though  this would  rise with salary  increases  and he would  be committed  to pay this until his 
normal  retirement  date.  Whereas  Mr K agreed  to pay £3,600  a year to the Stakeholder.
Based  on what  we've  been  told about  Mr K's circumstances  at the time I'm not persuaded  
Added  Years  would've  appealed  to him in 2004  when  the advice  was given. I say this because  
as I've said above,  Added  Years  were  expensive  in comparison  to other  options.  And Mr K 
has told us that at the time he had little in the way of savings,  and he had two mortgages  in 
place.  This alongside  the fact he didn't take out Added  Years  three  years  later,  leads  me to 
believe  he likely  wouldn't  have  been  prepared  to meet  this cost then - if he'd also been  
informed  of cheaper  alternatives  towards  saving  for his retirement  such  as the in- house  AVC.
Had Mr K been  presented  with all the information  to make  an informed  decision  he would've  
received  projections  of future  benefits  at the regulators  set rates  of growth,  which  likely  
would've  shown  (at the medium  and higher  growth  rate)  the in-house  AVC  matching  and 
outperforming  the Added  Years  benefit  at a lower  cost.
The amounts  involved  to pay for Added  Years  would  eat into any salary  increases  he received  
in the future  and the in-house  AVC  at the time had the potential,  with good  returns,  to match  
the benefit  of Added  Years  with much  less expenditure.  So it's difficult  to conclude  that Mr K 
would've  been  prepared  to almost  double  his additional  pension  funding  expense,  given  his 
circumstances  and the other  cheaper  options  available.
Whilst  the Stakeholder  did have  some  advantages  over the In-house  scheme,  I think  fully 
informed  the lower  cost option  of the in-house  AVC  would've  been  preferred  by Mr K.
Conclusion
Unfortunately,  either  down  to poor advice  or poor recording  of that advice,  we don't  know  with any certainty  what  Mr K would've  done  with all his options  set out clearly  to him. Nor is it clear  
why a Stakeholder  only coming  from his private  earnings  was recommended.  But I think  based  
on the balance  of probabilities,  fully informed  Mr K would've  chosen  instead  to put 
contributions  towards  the in-house AVC.
Whether  Mr K would've  contributed  more  had his NHS  earnings  been  considered  is another  
very difficult  question  to answer  but based  on what  we know  of his circumstances  at the time 
and what  he did after;  I'm not persuaded  to say he would've  made  further  additional  
contributions  on top of the £300  a month  he was making  into the Stakeholder.  For the purpose  
of the below  calculation  Wesleyan  should  also add the £7.38  a month  paid for the waiver  of 
premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the findings of my provisional decision (as set out above), I 
see no reason to depart from those findings.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr K informed us that he has previously exceeded 
his tapered allowances with regards to his NHS pension and he received large tax bills. He 
believes any compensation funds added to his pension plans will have the same effect and 
incur further tax losses. So Wesleyan should take account of this - as I set out in the putting 
things right section of my provisional decision (and repeated below).
Mr K has also asked for a copy of the calculations which I think is fair.
Putting things right
Wesleyan  should  undertake  a redress  calculation  in accordance  with the regulator's  
FSAVC  review  guidance,  incorporating  the amendment  below  to take into account  
that data for the CAPS  'mixed  with property'  index  isn't available  for periods  after 1 
January  2005.
The FSAVC  review  guidance  wasn't  intended  to compensate  consumers  for losses  
arising  solely  from poor investment  returns  in the FSAVC  funds  (in this case  from a 
Stakeholder  plan),  which  is why a benchmark  index  is used  to calculate  the 
difference  in charges  and (if applicable)  any loss of employer  matching  contributions  
or subsidised  benefits.
In our view the FTSE  UK Private  Investor  Growth  Total  Return  Index  provides  the 
closest  correlation  to the CAPS  'mixed  with property'  index.  So where  the calculation  
requires  ongoing  charges  in an investment-based  FSAVC  (Stakeholder  here)  and AVC  
to be compared  after 1 January  2005,  Wesleyan  should  use the CAPS  'mixed  with 
property'  index  up to 1 January  2005  and the FTSE  UK Private  Investor  Growth  Total  
Return  Index  thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates  a loss,  the compensation  amount  should  if possible  
be paid into Mr K's pension  plan.  The payment  should  allow  for the effect  of charges  
and any available  tax relief.  The compensation  shouldn't  be paid into the pension  
plan if it would  conflict  with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension  isn't possible  or has protection  or allowance  
implications,  it should  be paid directly  to Mr K as a lump  sum after making  a notional  deduction  to allow  for income  tax that would  otherwise  have  been  paid in retirement.  
25% of the loss would  be tax- free and 75% would  have  been  taxed  according  to his 
likely  income  tax rate in retirement  - presumed  to be 40%.  So, making  a notional  
deduction  of 30% overall  from the loss adequately  reflects  this.
Wesleyan  should  also supply  Mr K with a copy  of its calculations  once  they have  
been  carried  out.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Wesleyan Assurance Society to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman