DRN-3125521
The complaint
Mr B and Miss J complain about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to turn 
down a subsidence claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr B and Miss J made a claim after noticing cracking to their 
conservatory. After this, esure arranged for investigations to take place. The claim was 
later declined by esure. It thought the damage had been caused by faulty design as the 
rainwater pipe had no soakaway or permanent drainage. It also said the foundations 
werent at a sufficient depth, and were therefore defective. Both of those issues were 
specifically excluded under the policy.
Unhappy with esures claims decision, Mr B and Miss J brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think esure had 
shown that the moisture levels (caused by the rainwater discharging directly into the 
ground) at the conservatorys foundation depth would have led to the damage.
The investigator also pointed out that the conservatory had stood undamaged for 30 
years, and thought this wouldnt be the case if there had been faulty design to the 
rainwater outlet. She therefore recommended esure reconsider the claim, and also pay Mr 
B and Miss J £250 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 October 2021. Heres what I said:
The first point I need to consider is what has likely caused the damage. I note that esures 
subsidence specialist accepted that thered been downward movement, and had 
categorised the subsidence damage as severe.
Investigations found that the conservatory foundations were at a depth of 300mm below 
ground. The rainwater downpipe wasnt connected to a sub-surface drainage system and 
was instead discharging rainwater to the ground surface.
Soil analysis showed that there were clay soils. At the conservatorys foundation depth of 
300mm, the moisture content of the soil was 36%. At a depth of 600mm, the moisture 
content reduced to 28%, then at a depth of 1100mm it reduced to 25%. Though below 
this, the moisture content percentage increased until it had reached 30%.
Roots were found below the foundations (at a depth between 100mm and 1300mm), 
though these were all in a state of decay. The species was named as the Pomoideae 
group, which included the whitebeam.
An arboricultural investigation also took place. The report said there was crack damage to 
the conservatory which indicated downward movement. No significant vegetation was 
identified which could be associated with the damage, but it was noted that some 
vegetation (including a whitebeam) had been removed at some point before September 
2019. The arborist said that the whitebeam was a potential source of the Pomoideae 
group of roots discovered, and that no arboricultural management recommendations were 
being made as the potential vegetative influence had been removed.
So we know that roots for a species of tree (which included a whitebeam) were found 
below the conservatorys foundations. Although I appreciate the roots were in a state of 
decay because the whitebeam had been removed, the arborist thought that the whitebeam 
could have been the potential influence on the clay soil. Mr B and Miss J think the tree 
was removed in 2019.
The other possibility for the subsidence damage was the water from the rainwater pipe 
located to the rear of the conservatory. This discharges directly into the ground and theres 
no drainage or soakaway. Its esures view that this is what caused the damage.
As Ive mentioned, the soil analysis shows that at the foundation depth of 300mm, the 
moisture content of the soil was 36%. That wasnt much higher than the other recorded 
percentages (the absolute lowest being 25%), but I accept it was the highest moisture 
content reading taken. I also appreciate that at the conservatorys foundation depth, the 
soil was described as soft to firm (below that, it was mainly firm).
However, the rainwater pipe had been in that position for over 30 years and thered been 
no problems previously with the rainwater discharging directly into the ground. I also note 
that esure hasnt provided any expert evidence to support that a moisture reading of 36% 
couldve caused the subsidence damage. We also know that roots were found below the 
foundations, which can cause subsidence in clay soils.
Taking all of the above into account, I think the most likely reason for the subsidence was 
the impact of the roots on the clay soils, rather than the rainwater discharging directly into 
the ground.
Ive also considered esures argument that the policy was taken out by Mr B and Miss J on 
29 July 2019, and so it thinks any damage caused by the tree roots wouldnt be covered 
as this predated the start of the policy and possibly the date of the house purchase.
I understand Mr B and Miss J purchased the property in early 2018.
We cant be certain when the subsidence damage happened. However, given that the tree 
was apparently removed in 2019, and the subsidence damage was only noticed in 
October 2019, it seems more likely than not that the damage did take place after Mr B and 
Miss J had purchased the property. Even if some of the damage had taken place before 
theyd bought the property (and theres no evidence of that), the usual approach of this 
service is that where historical subsidence damage cant be separated from more recent 
subsidence damage, the insurer should deal with all the damage.
I see that esure has referred to the ABIs domestic subsidence agreement. This 
agreement relates to claims where theres been a change of insurer, and explains which 
insurer should be responsible for dealing with a subsidence claim. This will depend on the 
date the claim was notified.
Ive assumed that the property was insured before the policy start date of 29 July 2019 
and therefore the ABI agreement would apply here, but Id be grateful if Mr B and Miss J 
could confirm this in response to this provisional decision.
Mr B and Miss J notified esure of the claim in October 2019, which was more than eight 
weeks (but less than one year) after the policy started. That means that under the agreement, esure is responsible for dealing with the claim (as notification was given to 
esure rather than the previous insurer), but the cost of settlement can be shared equally 
between the two insurers. Though this would be down to esure to arrange.
The agreement says that if damage is known only to have occurred during the period of 
one of the insurers policies, then the agreement would still apply. Based on what Ive said 
above about the damage likely occurring after Mr B and Miss J purchased the property, 
Im satisfied that esure would remain responsible for the claim under the ABI agreement.
Ill now consider the two exclusions that esure has relied upon to turn down the claim.
Foundation depth
The policy excludes:
inadequate foundations which did not meet the building regulations which were in force, 
at the time the foundations were constructed.
In declining the claim, esure has referred to the standards of a builder of new homes (that 
Ill call N). It says that, according to N, the foundation depth ought to have been at least 
900mm.
However, Ns guidance only applied to builders and developers working for N, and so I 
dont think itd be appropriate to apply Ns standards in deciding whether the conservatory 
foundations were defective.
The exclusion specifically refers to building regulations in force at the time the 
foundations were constructed. Mr B and Miss Js conservatory was exempt from 
building regulations at the time. Nonetheless, I think itd be reasonable to take these 
into account.
Building regulations at the time said a building should be constructed so that ground 
movement caused by shrinkage of the subsoil will not impair the stability of any part of 
the building. The point esure has made is that since the stability of the conservatory 
has been impaired, it thinks that means the conservatory didnt meet building 
regulations.
It seems to me that the above statement contained in the building regulations is a broad 
aim, and to apply it literally would mean that any claim for subsidence would mean the 
foundations were defective, regardless of their depth. That doesnt seem fair.
I also note esure says that from 2004 onwards, building regulations required the 
minimum depth of foundations to be 750mm. However, this wasnt the case in 1987 
when the conservatory was apparently constructed. I understand the building 
regulations didnt give a minimum foundation depth at the time.
Though its also the case that tree roots were found at a depth of 1300mm. It therefore 
seems to me that even if the conservatorys foundations had been 750mm (or even 
900mm in line with Ns guidance), its likely that the conservatory wouldve still been 
affected by subsidence, since roots were found below those depths.
Furthermore, the conservatory has stood for over 30 years without any signs of 
damage or other issues with the foundations, until the cracking began in 2019. I think 
that if the foundations were inadequate, then it wouldnt have lasted for that length of 
time without signs of damage.For these reasons, I dont think esure can reasonably rely on the above exclusion to 
turn down the claim.
Faulty workmanship
The policy also excludes:
faulty materials, design or materials
Its esures view that the design of the rainwater downpipe should fall under the above 
exclusion because it discharges directly into the ground. It says the building regulations 
at the time required the downpipe to be directed away from a building, either to a 
soakaway at a minimum distance of 5m, or to a piped storm water system.
Again, the conservatory was exempt from building regulations, but I think its reasonable 
to take those regulations into account as good building practice. Based on what esure has 
said about the requirements in relation to rainwater discharge, I agree that the design of 
the rainwater downpipe didnt meet building regulations.
However, given that the rainwater pipe had been discharging rainwater to the ground 
surface for 30 years without this causing any problems, I think itd be difficult to say there 
was a faulty design. Though in any event, as Ive said above, I dont think esure has 
shown that the design of the rainwater downpipe caused the damage.
It therefore follows that it wouldnt be fair for esure to rely upon this exclusion to turn 
down the claim.
Putting things right
As Im not satisfied that esure has shown that either of the two exclusions its relied upon 
would apply, I think it should deal with the claim. I agree with our investigator that Mr B 
and Miss J have been caused inconvenience as a result of esures decision to turn down 
the claim, as theyve had to live with a conservatory that has severe subsidence damage. 
I think £250 would be reasonable compensation for this.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I reached my 
final decision. 
Mr B and Miss J responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. They also 
provided a copy of their policy schedule for the previous year. 
We didnt receive a response from esure, and the deadline has now passed.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Miss J have shown me that they were insured in the year before they took out the 
policy with esure. Im therefore satisfied that the ABI domestic subsidence agreement would 
apply.
Neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, and so Im satisfied my 
provisional findings should apply, and for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
I further require esure to pay Mr B and Miss J £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience theyve been caused by esures claims decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman