DRN-4154067
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr E complain about the decision by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited to withdraw cover following a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
The policy is in the joint names of Mrs B and Mr E but the complaint only concerns a claim 
Mr E made for legal expenses cover concerning an employment tribunal case and a 
personal injury claim arising out of the same issues. 
Cover was provided on the basis of legal advice he had obtained but was withdrawn in 2019 
following advice that his case no longer had reasonable prospects of success. Mr E 
complained about that decision. When that complaint was referred to this service an 
ombudsman issued a decision that DAS decision to withdraw cover was fair on basis of the 
legal advice it had received. 
Mr E made a further complaint in November 2021 and DAS issued a response in March 
2022. Mr E says after this, DAS admitted it never investigated his complaint that the panel 
solicitor who had advised on the case had a conflict of interest and that it had failed to follow 
its usual policy; it should have offered to appoint his own solicitor because of the conflict and 
offered to have another assessment from a more qualified solicitor.
Further correspondence about this led to DAS issuing a supplementary complaint response 
in February 2023 addressing a number of additional points. 
Mr E referred to a statement on DAS website which said if a policyholder disagreed with a 
prospects assessment, a senior solicitor could be asked to provide an opinion. He said this 
hadnt been offered. DAS said the legal advice was from a senior associate and supervising 
solicitor, but it accepted that it hadnt asked the panel solicitors to review his comments 
challenging its assessment. 
DAS offered to reimburse the legal fees Mr E had incurred to instruct another firm of 
solicitors to act on his personal injury claim. It said he wouldnt have had to incur legal fees if 
it had obtained his authority to instruct another panel solicitor at that time. DAS said on 
receipt of copy invoices, it would reimburse costs hed paid.
Mr E didnt accept the offer and referred the complaint to this service but our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said
This service had considered the decision to withdraw cover in a previous complaint 
so that could not be looked at again.
DAS admission that it didnt investigate the issue about the solicitor having a conflict 
of interest wasnt material new evidence that would be likely to affect the outcome of 
the previous complaint. 
Mr E referred to a statement on DAS website that if a policyholder disagreed with a 
panel solicitors assessment, a more senior lawyer would review their comments. But 
a statement on its website wouldnt be relevant when the policy terms and conditions 
didnt make any reference to it. 
The panel solicitors conflict was also considered in the previous complaint.
The offer to reimburse his legal fees was fair.
Mr E disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes made detailed 
comments. I wont set them out in full but they include:
The previous ombudsman failed to deal with the issue about there being a conflict of 
interest.
The investigator is refusing to consider new evidence that in 2022 DAS admitted it 
had failed to follow the policy and investigate the conflict of interest.
The view is irrational in not considering DAS admissions about not complying with 
the policy terms. DAS should have allowed him to choose his own solicitor.
The view should have taken into account the admitted error by DAS and assessed 
his losses according to negligence and contract law.
The view doesnt take into account the stress and ill health he has suffered as a 
result of having to get his own legal advice.
The ombudsman should direct DAS to pay all his legal costs to pursue a claim 
against it for breach of contract and negligence. This will allow a judge to calculate 
his losses under the relevant law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of complaints to this service. Some of these have been, or are 
being, considered separately. This complaint only concerns the withdrawal of cover for his 
personal injury claim. Hes provided detailed comments but although I have considered them 
all I wont refer to everything in detail. Thats due to the limits on what I can consider in this 
complaint and in line with our approach, which is to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimal formality.
We have already considered a complaint from Mr E about the decision to withdraw cover for 
his personal injury claim and an ombudsman issued a final decision about that. This means I 
cant review the decision to withdraw cover as that has already been determined.
Mr E says a new issue has arisen since the ombudsmans decision  DAS has since 
admitted that it failed to follow the policy terms in 2019 because it didnt consider that if the 
panel solicitor was conflicted, he had the right to appoint his own solicitor. Mr E considers 
this is new evidence which means we should look again at the decision to withdraw cover. 
Even if DAS has admitted it didnt investigate the conflict of interest, this is ultimately  a 
professional issue for a solicitor when they receive instructions to act on a matter. If a 
solicitor thinks theyre conflicted, they would refuse to act. And the ombudsman addressed 
this and said it was a professional matter and not a matter for DAS. So the point about 
whether there was a conflict of interest was considered at the time. In the circumstances I 
dont think it was necessary for DAS to revisit this. Whether DAS did or didnt investigate 
that, ultimately it was a matter for the solicitor.
This isnt new evidence that would make a difference to the outcome so theres no reason to  
review the decision made in 2019. I have considered whether, in light of the further issues 
Mr E raised, DAS should have reconsidered the claim or taken any other action. But on this 
point, the outcome of any further action would have been the same  it was in the end a 
matter for the solicitor. 
The other issue Mr E has raised is about a statement on DAS website that if a policyholder disagreed with a panel solicitors assessment, a more senior lawyer would review their 
comments. He says DAS didnt ask the panel solicitors to review his challenge to their 
prospects assessment. 
The definition of reasonable prospects in Mr Es policy terms said: .we or a preferred law 
firm on our behalf will assess whether there are reasonable prospects. There was no 
reference to a more senior lawyer reviewing a policyholders comments disagreeing with the 
prospects assessment. A statement on DAS website wouldnt in itself overrule the policy 
terms. DAS underwrites different policies with different terms and conditions and a statement 
like this wouldnt necessarily apply to every policy. 
Having said that, if a policyholder challenges an assessment and provides new information it 
would be reasonable to except an insurer to refer that to the solicitors to see if it changes 
their advice. 
However, Mr E had already provided his own barristers advice to the panel solicitors. The 
solicitors reviewed the advice and said things had changed since that advice was given; 
there had been developments since, which had led to the negative prospects assessment. 
The ombudsmans decision on the previous case said it was reasonable for DAS to rely on 
the panel solicitors assessment. Mr E later asked DAS to reconsider on the basis of the 
statement on its website. I appreciate DAS accepted it hadnt asked the panel solicitors to 
review Mr Es challenge to the assessment. But a statement on the website wouldnt in itself 
overrule the policy terms. And the panel firms assessment on prospects had been provided 
by a Senior Associate and supervising solicitor. So it had already been considered by 
someone senior.
Taking all of these things into account I dont consider the fact DAS has accepted that it 
didnt ask the panel solicitors to review the assessment again means DAS should have done 
anything different after Mr E raised this.
DAS accepted there had been some instances of poor service and that Mr E had instructed 
his own solicitors, which might not have been necessary otherwise. It made an offer to 
reimburse legal costs Mr E incurred to instruct solicitors and I understand these have been 
dealt with separately, so theres nothing further for me to add in relation to this.
I appreciate these matters have been ongoing for some years and have been very difficult 
for Mr E. Hes has explained the impact on his health. But taking all of the above into 
account, I dont think the additional points he has raised are grounds to reconsider the 
original decision to withdraw cover or to find DAS at fault in the way it responded to the 
additional points. Mr E is not entitled to cover under his policy for the legal costs of taking 
legal action against DAS and there is no reason to direct DAS to cover such costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman