DRN-3741096
The complaint
F, a limited company, represented by its director, who in turn is represented by Ms A and 
Ms B, has complained about its motor trade insurer, Tradex Insurance Company Limited. F 
thinks Tradex delayed its claim made following a fire at Fs premises.
What happened
There was a fire in June 2019. Tradex initially declined Fs claim and a complaint was made 
to this service. Tradex then offered to reconsider the claim and an Ombudsman felt that was 
fair and reasonable. It was in December 2019 that Tradex began reconsidering the matter. 
Tradex wanted to interview Fs director and wrote to him in that respect in March 2020. But 
the Covid-19 pandemic meant that couldnt happen. So Tradex put some questions in writing 
to Fs director. Fs director wanted some details from Tradex before answering the 
questions. And he later told this service he was concerned about the questions and 
answering them for a number of reasons. In April and May 2020 Tradex chased Fs director 
for answers and said it couldnt progress the claim without getting responses to its enquiries. 
In June 2020 it confirmed that without responses to its questions, the claim would not 
progress. Fs director made a further complaint to this service as he felt it was unreasonable 
for a decision on the claim to still be outstanding.
Our Investigator felt the questions asked by Tradex were necessary and relevant to its 
consideration of the claim. She felt it had acted reasonably in trying to progress matters 
since it had taken the claim back to be reconsidered.
Fs director was unhappy. Ms A and Ms B provided further information and detail to be 
considered by an Ombudsman, including an expert report on the fire, witness statements 
and a statement Fs director had given to loss adjusters appointed by another insurer (which 
covered a different element of the loss). They said Tradex could have completed other 
investigations, such as speaking to witnesses  it wasnt fair Tradex had insisted only on Fs 
director answering questions. Many of which, they said, were misleading, leading, could be 
answered by reference to other available data and/or had been answered before. Ms A and 
Ms B also detailed other failures it was felt Tradex had made both before December 2019 
and after June 2020. 
The complaint came to me for review. I noted the wealth of detail which had been provided 
since our investigator issued their view. I felt it was necessary to issue a provisional 
decision, to share my view on the complaint with both parties. My provisional findings were:
I know Fs director thinks Tradex should have changed its mind since the final response 
sent in June 2020  that it should have done more following that. But I am only looking at 
matters as they existed between December 2019 and the final response dated 
11 June 2020. During that time Fs director had not made his statement to the other insurer, 
the witness statements Ive seen hadnt been compiled and the fire report hadnt been 
completed. But Tradex hasnt declined the claim so I cant consider what those documents 
say about the claim. And, given their date, I cant take any of those documents into account 
when thinking about how Tradex handled things between December 2019 and 
11 June 2020. 
Im aware that Fs director feels that Tradex is trying, or may be intending, to use his 
answers to its questions to prove it has no liability for the loss. Whilst I can see why he feels 
that is unfair, he, like most policy holders, does have a duty to cooperate with an insurers 
reasonable enquiries into a claim.
I of course understand that Fs director thinks Tradex should have been gathering data like 
the witness statements, and talking to the fire officer, instead of insisting on interviewing him 
(either in person or in writing). And I think, if Tradex had interviewed Fs director but then 
refused to carry out other likely relevant enquiries, Id probably be critical of it in that respect. 
But Tradex has never suggested that questioning Fs director was going to be the sum total 
of its enquiries. Rather it was a first step for it. And I dont think there is anything unusual or 
unreasonable in that. In a claim situation like this I think speaking to the claimant in this type 
of detailed way is a first step most insurers would want to take. I know that here other activity 
had occurred before this, so this wasnt really a first step. But Tradex hadnt completed a 
thorough investigation first time around, so it now needed to make sure it put that right. So, 
in my view, for Tradex to go back to the drawing board, so to speak, like this, was fair and 
reasonable. 
I do think that Tradex could, and should, have acted more quickly between December 2019 
and the middle of March 2020. In December Tradex knew that a key piece of its 
reconsideration would be interviewing Fs director. It also recognised that it would likely need 
to do other things such as understand how the fire likely started. But it then seems to have 
done nothing until mid-March 2020 when it authorised its investigation company to interview 
Fs director. However, the pandemic quickly made that impossible and it was decided to 
progress things by asking Fs director the key questions in writing instead. These were sent 
to him around about a week after the planned interview would have taken place. I think that, 
in this respect, Tradex acted quickly and reasonably to respond to the unprecedented 
situation and, in doing so, didnt let its enquiries get off track.
Of course, it could be said that, if Tradex had not delayed things in December, January and 
through February, the pandemic would never have become an issue because the interview 
would have been arranged and concluded before its impact began. However, Im not 
convinced I can reasonably conclude that is most likely the case. I say that because the 
questions Tradex asked Fs director to respond to in writing are essentially what it had 
intended he be asked in person. As Fs director was not happy to respond in writing to these 
questions, for a variety of reasons, Im not sure hed have been minded to give any oral 
response to them in a face-to-face interview. 
Ive thought about the questions asked and Ive seen the responses from Ms A and Ms B 
about those questions. Those responses, in some respects, set out detail as to where the 
requested information can be found. But also which, by and large, explain the concerns Fs 
director has with the questions including that some are misleading, leading and/or contain 
inaccurate information. Im not persuaded though that the above concerns about them mean 
it was unfair and unreasonable for Tradex to ask them in the first instance. To me they seem 
relevant and to the point. And I bear in mind that part of the reason for questioning like this is 
so the parties can flesh out any inaccuracies or misunderstandings that might exist. I also 
bear in mind that Fs director had representatives who could assist and support him in his 
replies.  In any event, this type of response could have been given to Tradex, in reply to the 
questions being raised, in April or May 2020. What Tradexs reaction to those responses 
might have been, I dont know. But the claim would have progressed, rather than entering a 
period of stalemate as it did.As of June 2020, Tradex had not declined the claim. Our investigator mentioned that it had 
been declined and there is reference to that in Tradexs submissions. But that reference 
pre-dates Tradexs final response letter which represents its final position on the issue of the 
questions. Tradexs final position on this was that once it receives Fs directors reply to the 
questions, it would review them and progress the claim from there. I think that was a fair and 
reasonable position for Tradex to take and so Im not going to require it to do anything else. 
It is up to Fs director if he wants to provide any response to those questions to Tradex, 
and/or any other detail that has been gathered since the final response dated 11 June 2020.
Tradex didnt respond to my findings. F said it disagreed with therm. F gave comprehensive 
replies to my provisional findings. Ive summarised the main points as follows:
I have changed the terms of the complaint and failed to answer all of it.
It is unclear over what period I have considered this complaint and what evidence Ive 
taken as relevant to those considerations. I seem to only be looking at periods beneficial 
to Tradex.
A chart was provided setting out different pieces of evidence and F would like me to 
clarify in respect of each whether it was taken into account. It also asked I confirm what 
evidence Ive asked Tradex to provide.
All documents, such as the expert fire report, created after June 2020 are relevant to this 
complaint because they evidence what could have been achieved if Tradex had 
completed reasonable investigations. 
The questionnaire was not a reasonable enquiry. Part of the reason for the questions 
being asked was the content of a letter before action which Tradex should never have 
seen  so it wasnt fair for it to ask F questions related to that or that came about 
because of the content of that letter.
It was maintained that leading questions shouldnt have been put to Fs director.
F said it is obvious that the questions are designed to mislead F and F doesnt accept 
that I cant see that this is the case. 
I should look at each question individually and decide whether or not, with reasoning 
given, it was fair for that particular question to be asked. 
Tradex could, and reasonably should have run more than one enquiry at a time and the 
delay of the whole claim must be taken into account. There were plenty of other avenues 
for it to pursue.
Tradex agreed to reinvestigate the claim but there is no evidence of any progress in this 
respect.
The previous Ombudsman said Tradexs first enquiry on reinvestigating the claim should 
be with the local fire authority. Tradex has still not done that.
It took Tradex too long to decide to interview Fs director. And its motive for doing that 
was not to clarify how the fire started.
F was never previously told that it had failed to assist Tradex, in March 2020, in respect 
of a telephone interview. F demanded that a recording of the call was obtained, listened 
to and shared with it. And stated that a fair decision cant be made without doing so. 
I dont seem to have taken account of how Tradex has obstructed the whole process, 
including its lack of communication, thereby preventing F from responding to its 
questions. 
Even in June 2020, before the final response was issued, Tradex didnt correct Fs view 
or advise that it must answer the questions.
F has never been told its answers to the questionnaire were needed to progress the 
claim for the vehicles damaged at the premises  the final response referred to road 
risk but that was not what Fs claim, the one in question here, was about.
I cant fairly assume Fs director wouldnt give answers in a face to face interview  hed 
otherwise been willing to meet Tradexs investigators and had volunteered information 
over the phone. Ive sought to change the established process whereby the insurer has to prove an 
exclusion applies, and instead said its ok for the insurer to force F to provide proof. 
I am siding with Tradex and allowing it to provide misleading information because 
I havent insisted on listening to all calls between F and Tradex during which Fs director 
is confident all questions in the questionnaire are answered. And I should demand other 
documents are disclosed which will show Tradexs dishonesty.
Ive ignored rules, laws, regulation and codes of practice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure F that I have not changed the terms of the complaint. I have referred to it, in 
summary, as a complaint about delay. Im satisfied that is the correct summarised analysis 
of what F had told us it is unhappy about. And I note F has clarified that, a lack of update 
from, and communication by, Tradex has caused the delay. 
I explained provisionally what period I am considering. And my provisional findings set out 
my findings on the complaint, where relevant referencing what I found to be key activities or 
data. But I have taken into account all of the evidence provided by both parties in respect to 
this complaint about delay. I can also assure both parties that the period for consideration 
was not one chosen by me. Rather F had previously complained to this service in 
December 2019 about Tradexs handling of the claim to that point. And my Ombudsman 
colleague, when they issued their decision on that complaint, only looked at what had 
happened to that date. And when, after that point, F remained unhappy about what was 
going on and complained again, Tradex issued its final response in June 2020, after F had 
already reverted to us. I cant go back past a previous Ombudsmans decision and I cant, in 
this complaint, look ahead of the final response issued. 
That said I can understand why F thinks that evidence gathered after June 2020 has 
relevance as it shows what it was possible for Tradex to have ascertained, if it hadnt (in Fs 
view) unreasonably insisted on Fs director answering questions. But I dont think that 
showing what Tradex might have found, if it had done something differently, shows that it not 
doing that was unreasonable. 
I still think the questionnaire was a reasonable enquiry for Tradex to make. I bear in mind 
that it is not unusual for insurers to ask difficult, probing questions when investigating a 
matter like this. And I know Fs director had access to representation if he needed 
assistance with this matter. Overall Im satisfied that the questions seem relevant to the 
cover and the claim. And, as I said provisionally, the concerns F has raised during our 
complaint about the specifics of each question are exactly the responses it could have given 
to Tradex when originally asked, and the claim would then have progressed.
There were other avenues Tradex could have pursued alongside asking Fs director to 
answer its questions. But I bear in mind that doing that may not have been a practical way to 
run an investigation. Clearly F, from its perspective, thinks that was possible. But I know that 
sometimes answers and evidence gathered as part of one enquiry can inform what one 
wants to learn from another area of investigation. Or even make it clear what other areas of 
investigation are needed or can be dismissed. I still think that Tradex starting its 
reinvestigation by approaching Fs director to answer its questions, and placing the claim on 
hold when a detailed response wasnt received, was fair and reasonable. In my colleagues final decision on Fs previous complaint it was found that Tradexs offer to 
reinvestigate the claim was fair and reasonable. No direction was given as to how Tradex 
should go about doing that.
I found provisionally that Tradex took too long to decide to interview Fs director. The 
purpose of the questions was, as I said provisionally, to reinvestigate the claim. Although it 
was only one step in Tradex doing that  I also noted that Tradex was also aware it needed 
to establish how the fire started  Tradexs request in this respect does satisfy me that it was 
progressing the reinvestigation.
I note that F is concerned about an accusation within an email from one of Tradexs agents 
that he failed to assist regarding a telephone interview in March 2020. F has suggested that 
this needs further investigation, along with relevant evidence being gathered, or an unfair 
outcome might result. I can understand Fs concerns in this respect but I can assure it that 
my provisional findings did not rely on or reference this email or the alleged failure to assist. 
I know F thinks there was a lack of communication from Tradex. But even knowing that, 
I found provisionally that F could have replied to Tradexs questions in April and May 2020. 
Im not persuaded that any lack of communication by Tradex prevented F from doing so. In 
my view, in the letter of 27 March 2020 F was told that in order to fully and thoroughly 
consider all aspects of your claim responses to the questions set out (in that letter) were 
needed. And given that the final response was issued only a couple of days after Fs director 
contacted it in early June, I dont think any failure by Tradex to correct any understanding in 
reply to that contact was really material.
The final response does refer to road risk. Strictly speaking the claim does relate to cars 
which were parked off the road when they were damaged by fire. So I can see Fs argument 
that the claim was not about a road risk. But I dont think Tradexs choice of phrase 
reasonably mislead F. F knew that it had a claim with Tradex about the cars, and that Tradex 
offered cover to F in respect of the cars. There had also been some correspondence, at that 
time, about Fs liability to others resulting from the fire itself causing damage. I think, in the 
context of everything that was happening, F should reasonably have been aware that in 
using the phrase road risk, Tradex was referring to its lability to F for the damaged cars.
I havent assumed that Fs director wouldnt have given answers to Tradexs questions in a 
face-to-face interview. Rather I have made a decision about what I think would most likely 
have happened. I appreciate what F says about having cooperated with Tradexs enquiries 
in the past, even in meetings with it. But that doesnt mean he would likely have answered 
Tradexs current set of questions in a face-to-face interview. It seems illogical to me to think 
that Fs director would have been happy to answer verbally what he would not answer in 
writing. And that issue of logic cant be satisfied merely by accepting that other detail had 
been given in previous meetings. Not when clearly, the questions subject of this meeting 
were such a cause for concern for Fs director. 
I can assure F that I am not seeking to allow Tradex to avoid proving that an exclusion 
applies in order for it to avoid liability for a loss. As I confirmed provisionally, Tradex has not 
yet declined liability for the claim, it is still prepared to investigate it. It is not unreasonable for 
it to expect Fs director to co-operate with that investigation.I appreciate that F has its views about how I should conduct my enquiries into its complaint, 
including regarding what evidence I should gather, consider and take into account. But this 
service doesnt take instructions, either from complainants or respondent businesses, or 
allow either party to direct the course of our investigations. Were we to do so, it would 
compromise our independence and impartiality. Its up to us to identify what the issues are in 
a complaint, and to decide what evidence we need in order to investigate that complaint. As 
already noted, I have considered everything relevant to this complaint that both parties have 
provided. I can also assure both parties that I have remained impartial throughout.  
I appreciate that F has concerns with the way I have assessed its complaint, as well as with 
the findings Ive reached. But I am satisfied I have done all of that in line with my role as 
Ombudsman, taking into account the relevant rules, laws, regulations and codes of practice 
that apply.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Tradex Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman