DRN-3087317
The complaint
Mrs F complains that a used car she got with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) provided 
by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was of unsatisfactory quality and misrepresentations were 
made during the sale process.
What happened
Mrs F got this car in January 2020. The alternator had to be replaced within the first month - 
at a cost of over £500. Then she discovered the air conditioning (AC) wasnt working in July 
the same year. Mrs F contacted the supplying dealer but it considered this was wear and 
tear related. The car started to make a noise in December 2020 and a third party garage 
(TPG) told Mrs F that the cambelt probably needed replacing. It said this was overdue 
according to the manufacturers recommendations which invalidated the warranty and 
repairs would cost about £400. 
Mrs F says the car only had about 75,000 miles on the clock when she got it. And the 
salesperson told her the cambelt should last for 130,000 miles - so she didnt think it would 
need to be replaced for some time. Mrs F feels she was misled at the point of sale and the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality at the outset so she complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn says the relevant manufacturer recommends the cambelt should be replaced 
between 60,000  100,000 miles. And the problems Mrs F reported were likely wear and tear 
related  given the cars mileage at the outset. Moneybarn offered to pay Mrs F £75 
compensation for delay in responding to her complaint but didnt think it should have to do 
anything further.
Mrs F thinks thats unfair. The TPG told her she shouldnt drive the car until its repaired so 
she declared it SORN in Dec 2020 and hasnt used it since  which is inconvenient and 
costly, as she has to use public transport. She thinks Moneybarn should pay for repairs to 
the AC and the cambelt or allow her to reject the car.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence and she thinks the complaint should be 
upheld. Shes satisfied the problem with the AC was raised with the supplying dealer in July 
2020, within six months. She thinks it more likely than not this was present when Mrs F got 
the car so Moneybarn should pay for repairs. She acknowledges the cambelt issue didnt 
appear until December 2020 - after Mrs F had the car for over ten months and covered over 
4,000 miles. But, shes satisfied the relevant manufacturer recommends a cambelt should be 
replaced after 72 months or 100,000 miles  whichever is soonest. And this car was six 
years old in November 2019 - so the cambelt was due to be replaced at the service carried 
out in December 2019 - just before the car was supplied to Mrs F. 
The investigator thinks it would have been reasonable to replace this part before the car was 
supplied and its unfair to expect Mrs F to pay for the related repairs. She recommends 
Moneybarn should arrange for the AC and cambelt to be repaired at no cost to Mrs F, refund 
the cost of diagnostic reports and any monthly instalments made since 15 December 2020 
(to compensate Mrs F for loss of use - provided Mrs F supplies a screenshot to confirm the 
current mileage) and increase the compensation for inconvenience and distress to £100.
Moneybarn agreed to pay £100 compensation and fund the repairs to the AC. But, it says 
the cambelt is a wear and tear item that comes under general maintenance and Mrs F is 
responsible for that. Moneybarn acknowledges it may be good practice to replace parts in 
line with the manufacturers recommendations. But, it considers the supplying dealer wasnt 
obligated to do so  and the sale price would have increased if the cambelt was replaced 
before sale. Moneybarn doesnt think it should have to pay for the cambelt repairs or provide 
a refund of monthly payments  as these go towards the purchase of the car  not hire or 
rent. It asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators and I was inclined to reach a slightly 
different outcome overall. I issued a provisional decision on 3 September 2021 to let the 
parties see my provisional findings and respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final 
decision. Ive set out what I decided provisionally - and why - below and this forms part of my 
final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Moneybarn supplied this car to Mrs F under a finance agreement. This means Moneybarn 
was required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure (amongst other things) 
that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory 
quality will vary depending on individual circumstances, but it is generally considered 
reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into account in the case 
of a used car.
The car Mrs F got here was seven years old with about 75,000 miles on the clock and cost 
nearly £7,000. I think a reasonable person would accept that a car like this was likely to have 
some parts that were worn and would need replacing or repairing sooner or later  which is 
reflected in the lower price paid compared to the price of a brand new vehicle.
Mrs F had the car for a few weeks when the alternator needed to be replaced. This seems to 
have been covered under a two year warranty she got with the car - and the supplying 
dealer paid a shortfall - so I dont need to address the issue any further here. Moneybarn has 
agreed to pay for repairs to the AC and I think that sounds fair in the circumstances. This 
leaves the matter of the cambelt. There doesnt seem to be any dispute that this needs to be 
replaced and the question for me to determine is whos responsible for that.
Moneybarn says this is a service item and, given the mileage accrued, not a fault  its 
something that Mrs F is responsible for as part of general maintenance. I accept a cambelt is 
something that will wear over time and need to be replaced. And I cant fairly hold 
Moneybarn liable for issues that arise as the result of normal wear and tear. But, Im satisfied 
I can consider representations made during the course of pre-sale negotiations - in this 
complaint against Moneybarn - under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mrs F says the salesperson told her the cambelt should last for another 50,000 miles or so. I 
cant be certain what was said at the time but I find Mrs Fs evidence about this to be 
consistent and credible. I can see the car had about 75,000 miles on the clock at the point of 
sale. So, if the salesperson thought the car still had the original cambelt fitted and said it 
should last another 50,000 miles or so, that would seem optimistic - to say the least. This statement would make sense however if the salesperson thought the cambelt was changed 
 in line with the manufacturers recommendations - at the major service which took place a 
few weeks before. 
I accept dealers arent required to service cars in strict accordance to manufacturers 
recommendations - a manufacturer will often recommend, for example, that only the 
manufacturers parts should be used. And I cant reasonably say any failure to service a 
vehicle in line with the manufacturers recommendations must mean its of unsatisfactory 
quality. But, Im satisfied the cambelt is an essential component of the engine - it can cause 
catastrophic damage if it fails. I consider the dealer here should reasonably have known that 
the manufacturer recommended the cambelt should be replaced by the time this car was 
serviced in December 2019. And I think the salesperson probably thought thats what 
happened.
I say this because I can see Mrs F got a two year warranty with this car. I havent seen the 
relevant paperwork but I have checked the warranty providers terms and conditions. It looks 
as if the cambelt would be covered if a vehicle has been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers requirements. I think its unlikely the dealer here would have provided Mrs F 
with a warranty that it knew was invalid  even in part. And Im minded to find its more likely 
than not she was led to believe this car was serviced according to the manufacturers 
recommendations.
I think this is likely to have influenced Mrs Fs decision to accept this particular car  which is 
older and had covered relatively significant distance before it was supplied. On balance, I 
find it unlikely she would have accepted this car at the price she paid if shed known it wasnt 
serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations and that would invalidate (parts of) 
the two year warranty. So, taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I am minded to 
find its reasonable and proportionate for Moneybarn to pay for the cambelt repairs.
Ive seen a report from the TPG that says the car shouldnt be driven in the condition its in at 
the moment. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs F to stop using the car in this situation. 
And Im minded to find it is fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to refund any monthly 
payments made from 15 December 2020 (plus interest)  until the AC and cambelt repairs 
are completed. To be clear, this refund is intended to compensate Mrs F for loss of use of 
the car and I find it to be reasonable, in light of the award Im making overall.
I can see that Mrs F had to go to some trouble taking the car for diagnostic checks and so 
forth. I think she probably experienced some significant inconvenience as a result of the car 
being off the road. And, mindful of the refund Ive referred to above for loss of use, I am 
inclined to find it is reasonable for Moneybarn to pay Mrs F £100 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Im not aware if Mrs F has continued to maintain her monthly payments 
towards the car. In the event that she hasnt - and Moneybarn has recorded adverse 
information on her credit file - this should be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
submissions by 30 September 2021 and explained that I would look at all the evidence 
available after that and make my final decision.
Mrs F has accepted my provisional findings and Moneybarn hasnt objected or made any 
further submissions. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions above, in the circumstances. For the reasons Ive given, I remain of the view this complaint 
should be upheld and its fair and reasonable for Moneybarn to take the steps set out to put 
things right.     
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:-
1. arrange for the AC and cambelt to be repaired at no cost to Mrs F;
2. refund the cost of the diagnostic reports obtained in relation to the AC and cambelt  
in the sum of £78 and £35.40 respectively;
3. refund any monthly instalments made since 15 December 2020 to compensate Mrs F 
for loss of use (on confirmation of the relevant mileage);
4. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
5. pay Mrs F £100 compensation for associated inconvenience and distress; and
6. remove any adverse information recorded on her credit file.
If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman