DRN-2942827
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the sale of a life assurance, critical illness cover and sickness 
cover policy. The policy was subsequently placed into trust, with Mrs M as the sole additional 
trustee.
What happened
Mr M took out a decreasing term life assurance and critical illness policy in early 2006, with 
sickness cover as an additional benefit. Mr and Mrs M say they had conversations with the 
Openwork adviser about the sickness cover aspect of the policy and thought they 
understood what would be covered. 
When Mr M had a life-changing knee injury in 2013 and tried to claim on the sickness cover 
policy, Mrs M was told that although the injury was eligible, Mr M wasnt  because he hadnt 
been working for the three months before the injury. More recently, in 2019, Mr M tried to 
claim for a new illness. But, after a lengthy assessment, the policy provider declined the 
claim.
Mr M complained to the policy provider, and to our service, about the claim being declined  
but the complaint wasnt upheld and the claim remained unpaid. 
Mr M believes that the cover provided by the policy is not what Openwork described  so 
complained to Openwork that the policy was mis-sold. Openwork replied. They said they 
were unable to comment on what had actually been said at the sale of the policy. They 
explained the nature of the cover their adviser had recommended in 2005 and said that Mr M 
had a responsibility to review the paperwork provided. 
Mr M was unhappy with Openworks response so he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr M and 
Mrs Ms understanding of the policy was in line with the policy terms and conditions so he 
didnt think Openwork had mis-sold the policy. Mr M wasnt happy with our investigators 
view and asked for an ombudsmans decision  so its come to me. Mr M reiterated his view 
that hed been lied to by Openwork. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate itll be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs M but Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
I know Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that they were lied to about what would be covered by the 
sickness aspect of the policy. Theyve said they were given an example of someone needing 
time off work to have cancer treatment but then eventually being able to return to work. Mr 
and Mrs M say they were told that person would be covered by the sickness cover for the 
period they werent able to work.
Unfortunately, I think theres been some confusion about why Mr Ms claim was declined. Mr 
and Mrs Ms understanding is that the claim was declined because Mr M wasnt 
permanently disabled. So its understandable they think this contradicts the example of the 
cancer patient who later returned to work.
However, from reading the claim correspondence, I can see the claim was declined because 
the policy provider didnt consider Mr M to be totally disabled from doing his job. This is 
different from being permanently disabled, and I think does fit with the example of the cancer 
patient. The cancer patient was sufficiently unwell to be totally unable to do his job for a 
period  but was then able to return.
When explaining their complaint, Mr and Mrs M said: we were told that if [Mr M] was unable 
to work for 6 months or longer (provided he had been employed for 3 months prior to the 
accident or illness), then the insurance would pay [Mr M] a monthly sum until he was able to 
return to work There was never any mention of it having to be a permanent disability. We 
were under the impression that critical illness is the part of the insurance that would provide 
cover for any permanent disability or critical illness.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions, and Im satisfied they align with what Mr and 
Mrs M say they were told. Its unfortunate that the policy providers declined the claim, but I 
cant say thats Openworks fault. From everything Ive seen, Mr and Mrs M came away from 
their meeting with a good understanding of how the policy should work, so Im satisfied 
Openwork didnt mis-sell the policy.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Openwork Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman