DRN-2715865
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly restricted its bank account 
causing disruption and financial loss.
What happened
P says that it found out on 25 April 2018 that it could not access its account to pay staff 
wages. The director says she went to a branch twice and spent time on the phone. She 
was then helped by her business manager who said that there had been an error. The 
wages payment was possible on 27 April 2018. And it was confirmed that the account was 
reinstated by 28 April 2018. P says that its staff did not come to work for two days, that 
existing direct debits had been cancelled and had to be reinstated and that this had a 
lasting effect on the business and the health of the director.
HSBC said that it wrote to P in October 2017 to tell it about a safeguard exercise and that 
it would need to confirm information it held about P. It did not ask for anything specific at 
that time and accepts that no further trigger letter was sent to request this. HSBC says 
that there would have been warnings about this requirement when P logged on to internet 
banking. And that as there was no response it wrote to P on 17 February 2018 to say that 
it would no longer provide facilities and that the account would be restricted after 23 April 
2018. Again, it says that a warning about this would have been shown on internet 
banking. As P did not contact it the account was restricted. As far as P is concerned it 
said it offered to pay £100 in compensation for not sending the trigger letter.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do more than it had offered to. He said 
that HSBC had shown that two of the three letters about this had been sent and it told him 
that messages would have been available when P logged in for online banking. P had 
explained that its overdraft had been increased in February 2018 and he agreed that a 
further opportunity had been missed to alert P to the intended account closure. He said 
that we were only looking here at these events and not points P had made about what 
happened later in 2018 relating to its borrowing which would be a separate complaint to 
pursue with HSBC first. And there was also a distinct complaint about her personal
account  but this complaint only related to P.
P did not agree. The director said that she had been told by her business manager that 
none of the letters had been sent. She did not see any internet banking pop ups and does 
not accept that P was told about this. When the overdraft was extended she was told that P 
was operating the account well. And the short length of time it was closed had no
bearing on the ongoing impact for P.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2021. I set out below what I said.
I thought that the points P makes about the overdraft are important here. Id seen two 
letters about this. One was dated 17 January 2018 saying that the overdraft was renewed 
for a further year with a limit of £5,000. And another dated 26 February 2018 saying that it 
had been increased to £9,000. That second letter is entirely consistent with what the 
director says about there being a detailed review of Ps business and which would be likely 
for any borrowing. And it raises the question about why the business manager did not spot 
that the account was due for closure. On any view it was not appropriate for a borrowing 
facility to be increased for a business when the account was due to be closed within 60 
days and that borrowing then immediately was all due for immediate repayment.
I needed to think about what is most likely based on the evidence. And I accepted that 
letters correctly addressed to P were dispatched. That is consistent with me accepting for 
example that the overdraft letters were too. I didnt place too much weight on the initial 
letter about safeguard in October 2017. Thats because it did not ask P to do anything. 
There was clearly at least one error in that no trigger letter was generated. But there was a 
letter dated 17 February 2018 sent out saying that the account would be closed. I found it 
difficult to accept that either P or the business manager in knowledge of that letter would 
proceed to increase Ps overdraft. That leads me to conclude that the director had not 
seen the letter and there was no visible marker on the HSBC system that the account 
would be closed. There was clearly some sort of reminder held centrally leading to the 
restriction. But beyond that this position also to me throws into significant doubt that an 
internet reminder for P was in place. Id seen nothing to support that other than what 
should have happened.
I couldnt reasonably hold HSBC responsible for problems with the postal system or the
possible oversight by P of the letter if it had been delivered. However, I thought that HSBC 
was reasonably on notice that the letter had not been received and had an opportunity to do 
something about this. Its action instead in only increasing the overdraft here was in error
until the safeguard requirements had been resolved.
P says that the restriction of the account and the specific impact on the 25 and 26 April 
2018 caused irreparable damage to its business. I didnt doubt that its staff were very 
unhappy not to be paid on time. But I couldnt reasonably find that this had a lasting impact 
on the business of P, especially when it seemed to be accepted as an error with the 
account. Or that P could not have taken steps to mitigate this and that it was the sole 
reason as the director says for a series of further problems. But I did think that a measure 
of the inconvenience to P could and should have been avoided and that HSBC is 
responsible for that given my findings.
I didnt think that the payment offered reflects the need for P to address what had happened 
and deal with its suppliers. Or the impact of the errors in not sending the trigger letter and 
increasing the overdraft and so not alerting P. I emphasised that I am not looking at the 
personal impact on the director and only that on P a separate legal entity that cannot suffer 
distress. I considered the impact here would be fairly reflected in an increased payment of 
compensation to a total of £300. I had formed my own judgement about that taking into 
account our published guidelines. I knew based on what the director said that she would 
remain disappointed by the amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC made some specific comments about points in my provisional decision. It did not 
make clear whether it agreed to pay the further compensation or not. It said that even though 
Ps account was going to be closed it remained a customer and that service requests would 
be dealt with. It described the increase in the overdraft limit during the notice period as 
unfortunate. It said that the relationship manager either did not see the closure letter on the system or concluded that this would be handled by the central remediation team  
something it said branch staff were encouraged to do. HSBC said it could not retrospectively 
pull up evidence of internet messages and warnings about the need to provide information 
and the closure of the account. It was unfair to require it to prove that. It had not experienced 
issues where this had not been available. It pointed out that in some cases a customer either 
ignores or fails to act on those warning because they do not understand its importance.
P did not make any more specific points about its position in this complaint. The director 
maintained that the impact of what happened on her and on her health should be taken into 
account and she said she was confused why it wasnt. What happened with P was 
inextricably linked to issues she had with her personal account.
I want to address those points first. The complainant here is only P. I cannot look in this 
complaint about the impact on any other person. And so, I cannot consider any 
consequential effects for the director personally as a result of HSBCs actions. I appreciate 
that this wasnt made clear before my provisional decision. A separate complaint about what 
happened to the directors personal account has been set up  but I emphasis that P is a 
separate legal entity and so established in a way that keeps the business of P separate. Any 
consequences of what happened to her as a result of what happened to P in this complaint 
are not something we are able to consider. And as I mentioned P cannot suffer distress.
I agree with HSBC that it is of course reasonable to expect it to provide banking services 
until the point the account was to be closed. And I dont think we disagree that it was not the 
right thing then to increase the overdraft. In my view thats because the account was due to 
be closed and also because as a result of the safeguard exercise not being completed 
HSBCs position must have been that it did not meet know you customer requirements. 
Theres no evidence the relationship manager did direct P to the central team.
I am only looking at the specifics of this complaint here and not as HSBC says whether in 
other cases or generally its internet banking warnings have worked. The reason I threw 
doubt on this here was because the trigger letter had not been sent - as it generally would 
have been - and because the relationship manager did not seem to notice the position on 
the account either. In these circumstances I consider I can only rely on things that could be 
clearly evidenced. And as I said even though P said it had not received the closure letter I 
had a copy and accepted this was sent. 
Having considered the further points and all the evidence and information again I am not 
minded to depart from my provisional findings for the reasons I gave before. If P does not 
accept my decision then it remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant 
time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay P a total 
amount of compensation of £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman