DRN-2274917
The complaint
Ms W has made a complaint against UK Insurance Limited (UKI) following a call out to a car 
breakdown. She says that the actions of the recovery agent further damaged her vehicle, 
and she would like UKI to compensate her for the damage caused. 
I will use UKI to refer to UKI and its associated agents in this decision. 
What happened
Ms Ws car broke down. She was quite distressed when she called up her breakdown 
recovery company as she thought her policy had expired. But the agent on the telephone 
found a live policy connected to her bank account, and assured Ms W she had cover. She 
asked Ms W what was wrong.
Ms W said, it wont start and its saying the handbrake is faulty. 
Ms W says that the recovery agent arrived at the scene. She says that at this point the car 
was still turning over but not starting. She says the agent used jump leads to attempt the 
start. She says she saw sparks and smoke from the engine bay. 
The car failed to start so it was recovered to a local garage. Ms W says the recovery agent 
asked her to sign something before the car was recovered which she did. 
UKI got a statement from the recovery agent. UKI say We spoke with the technician who 
states he only used a 12 volt jump pack which is surge protected and could not get life or the 
engine to turn. So, when the customer informed yourselves the engine still turned over as 
normal something has therefore happened prior to our arrival. There is absolutely no way we 
couldve damaged the battery and as stated or fried it as there was no smoke or overheating 
coming from the battery and had we connected it incorrectly it would not of provided any 
power due to the failsafe protection. 
Theres also a statement from the receiving garage. It says Vehicle will not start - Tested 
fuel supply- No fuel getting to injectors. Scan vehicle with OBS scanner, Vehicle listing, over 
30 faults in Engine / BSI Relating to open circuits. It is our view that the vehicle ECU unit 
/electrics have been spiked with overcharge, caused by jump leads used with no regulator 
surge control or have been applied to wrong terminals. This has caused a massive voltage 
surge through the electrics damaging sensors and wires to engine components. Advise 
vehicle needs new ECU and Wire loom at least, with potentially other parts needed with fault 
finding tracing. This would need to be carried out by an Auto electrical expert. However, it is 
my view that the repair would more than the vehicle value.
Ms W is adamant that the recovery agent is responsible for the electrical and ECU damage 
her car has now suffered, so she complained. UKI declined her complaint and said it hadnt 
done anything wrong. So, Ms W came to our service.
An investigator looked at Ms Ws complaint. The investigator upheld this complaint and 
asked UKI to pay her the value of her vehicle (which has now been written off) and the cost 
of the diagnostic. But UKI dont agree and, its asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
I reviewed the case and set out my findings in a provisional decision dated 23 September 
2020. These provisional findings are set out below
My provisional findings
What happened during the call out?
Ms W was calling for assistance from a school car park. Shed obviously used the car to get 
there. So, this was quite a sudden issue and we have no evidence to suggest that this had 
ever happened before.
Ms W said in the call to UKI, it wont start and its saying the handbrake is faulty. The agent 
asks, does the engine turn over when youre turning the key? Ms W replies yeah, it just 
obviously wont go and work. The agent asks, when its turning over is it turning over 
normally, but then you cant engage any like power, is that? Ms W cuts in and replies yeah, 
and the brake pedal wont go down. The agent repeats so the handbrake is faulty, and the 
brake pedal wont go down Ms W confirms that the handbrake fault is coming up as a 
message on the screen. 
Ive looked at the roadside report provided by UKI for this job. It says symptom: Non start, 
outcome: not repaired, recovery required. The comments say possible battery fault. Not 
able to power up with boost pack or jump leads.
An internal email from UKI says 'NON START Hand brake faulty warning, brake pedal won't 
go down, non-start, turning over normally'. This confirms that the vehicle was not starting 
prior to our arrival, which is consistent with the original fault being an ECU fault.
The first thing that stands out is the fact that the fault reported is not the same as the fault 
recorded on the roadside report. Ms W clearly has a handbrake issue, and in addition the car 
wont start. But the report doesnt mention the handbrake, just the non-start issue. The same 
with the later email, non-start seems to be the primary issue recorded. They never seem to 
be linked.
Ive spoken to two garages in an effort to get to grips with whats happened here. Ms W has 
attempted to start her car. It turns over, but wont start. The handbrake warning light is 
flashing, and she says the car has gone into economy mode. Both garages Ive spoken to 
say this wouldnt be unusual. Theyve both expressed caution at giving a definitive analysis 
of the fault. But both have said that an issue with the handbrake can, in certain 
circumstances trigger safety or economy mode, meaning the car would turnover but not 
start if a handbrake issue was detected.
This analysis of the situation ties in exactly with the situation as Ms W describes it. However, 
I think UKI have misinterpreted the situation. Theyve recorded the issue as a non-start, and 
the first thing youd do in that situation, is attempt a jump start. But I dont think this was the 
correct approach to take. 
But this may have been complicated further by the status of the battery when the recovery 
agent arrived. Its wholly conceivable that Ms W continued to try to start her car, after the call 
to her recovery agent. And its wholly conceivable that the battery couldve been completely 
flat on his arrival, although there are conflicting testimonies surrounding this. Ms W says it 
wasnt flat. The recovery agent says it was.But either way, I dont think it matters. Because as the story plays out what happened next 
was always going to happen. The recovery agent as per the report wasnt aware of a 
handbrake issue. As far as he was concerned, he was attending a non-start. So, he was 
always going to try and jump start the car either with a battery pack or jump leads.
But this is where the conflicting evidence arises. The recovery agent says he only used a 12 
volt jump pack which is surge protected and could get not life or the engine to turn. This line 
is quoted numerous times throughout the file. But this isnt true. He clearly says at the 
bottom of the roadside report possible battery fault. Not able to power up with boost pack or 
jump leads. So, the recovery agent also used jump leads in an attempt to start the car, 
which Ms W confirms. And this changes matters in terms of a possible power surge and the 
risk to the ECU.
UKI have provided us with the make and model of the battery pack that was used. They 
havent provided us with a check sheet for the recovery vehicle, but thats ok, as its clear 
now that both a battery pack and jump leads were used.
The Battery pack is a Power Vamp TB1224HDD. According to the specification I found 
online, this model has an audible reverse polarity warning buzzer and voltage spike 
protection. And from the research Ive seen its unlikely (but not impossible) that a power 
surge couldve happened using this device.
But the recovery agent also used jump leads. And theres no mention of surge protection or 
any sort of protection whilst using these. In fact, UKI are silent on the jump leads. Again, 
having spoken to a number of garages it is very clear that using jump leads both correctly 
and incorrectly can be very risky, and there is a much higher chance that a voltage spike or 
a power surge can happen when using jump leads. There are numerous articles and forums 
online that will tell you the same thing. Even if you are using jump leads correctly, there is 
potential to cause a voltage spike. Thats why its recommended you use a battery pack as 
battery packs have built in safeguards.
So, I need to decide whats most likely to have happened. And looking at the two versions of 
events Im more persuaded by Ms Ws testimony. Her story hasnt changed and aligns with 
what happened. She said the agent used jump leads. She was adamant about this. She 
says she saw sparks and smoke, and the garage say they smelt smoke when the car was 
transported to them. On the other hand the recovery agent never once mentions the jump 
leads in his testimony. He says, he only used a 12 volt jump pack. The use of the jump 
leads is only picked up if you read through 133 pages of file notes, and its mentioned at the 
bottom of the roadside report. So, Im satisfied jump leads were used in an attempt to start 
the car.
But did the jump leads cause the spike or was there already an ECU fault?
Im persuaded that the ECU failure occurred after the jump leads were used, as described by 
Ms Ws garage. Ms W reported a handbrake warning and a non-start. The car had reverted 
to economy mode. Ive been told by one garage that economy mode can be triggered for a 
number of reasons. Again, I reiterate that this garage has never seen this car and is only 
working off the narrative as presented on file and by the questions I have asked as the 
ombudsman investigating this case. But this garage has assured me that its not unusual for 
the car to trigger economy mode for a handbrake issue. They explained that economy mode 
can allow the car to start and move. It can also mean the car isnt safe to start, and in that 
scenario the engine will turn over, but it wont engage or start.And Im satisfied thats what happened here. There was a handbrake issue, economy mode 
kicked in and the car wouldnt start. Ms W reported the issue correctly. But the issue seems 
to have gotten lost in translation between UKI and the recovery agent, and the recovery 
agent went out to what he thought was a non-start.
When the recovery agent arrived, there was no mention of the handbrake issue. In fact, UKI 
repeat this in a later email. The recovery agent went straight into a jump start scenario, 
possibly because the battery was flat, and this matched what was on the job sheet. The 
recovery agent couldnt start the car with the battery pack, so he then used the jump leads. It 
was then that the surge is more likely than not to have happened. 
UKI also say that someone else couldve tried to jump start the car. But this was never 
mentioned by Ms W. She was told to wait for the recovery guy, and theres nothing to 
indicate that there was any other outside assistance sought.
In addition to all of this the fact that Ms Ws garage have diagnosed the original issue as a 
handbrake issue, where they say all that was required was a replacement handbrake clip is 
very clear. This is compounded by the fact that when the recovery agent attempted to move 
the car he said It was then requested to be recovered and found the Hand Brake would not 
release as it was electrically operated and had not been tried to release prior to this
So, Im satisfied the handbrake failure was the main cause of the breakdown. The car went 
into economy mode because there was an issue with the handbrake, and not because the 
ECU was faulty. The ECU failure is more likely than not to have happened after the recovery 
agent arrived when the jump leads were used.
The waiver
UKI say that Ms W signed a waiver, which waives them from all responsibility if theres 
damage caused during a jumpstart. Ms W doesnt deny signing this waiver. But she says this 
waiver was signed after the jump leads were used and just before the car was about to be 
recovered. Ms W also says this waiver wasnt explained to her. She thought it was to allow 
her car to be removed on the recovery truck.
Ive seen the print out from the waiver with Ms Ws electronic signature. And I can see there 
are five ticks, one which abdicates the recovery agent from any responsibility for any 
accidental / consequential damage that can occur as a result such as warning lights being 
triggered (during a jumpstart).
But given what we now know, Im inclined to believe Ms W. Ive listened to the initial 
breakdown report call with her recovery insurance. And its clear shes very upset and 
stressed when this happens. There is a lot to take in on that form, including no driving, 
forcible entry, wheel nuts and tow start liability, along with jump start accidental damage. 
And I dont think Ms W sounded like she was in the right frame of mind to take all of this in at 
that time. So even if it was signed before or after the damage was done, I dont think in that 
moment Ms W knew what she was signing. So, Im inclined to discount the importance of the 
waiver, given the stressfulness of the situation, and Ms Ws vulnerability at the time.
What happens next
 
Ive set out why Im persuaded that the ECU wasnt damaged when Ms W first reported the 
breakdown. I believe there was a handbrake problem which deemed the car unsafe to drive 
thus triggering economy mode. The issue as described was miscommunicated to the 
recovery agent, who then attempted to start a car that was never going to start using a 
boost. And this then led to an attempted jump start using jump leads which in turn caused catastrophic damage to the cars electrical system. Because of this I think UKI are 
responsible for the ECU and wiring loom damage. 
The car will potentially be written off, so I recommend that UKI either pay Ms W the value of 
the car on the day the car was recovered to the garage or the value of the repair, whichever 
is most reasonable. It should also pay any associated diagnostic costs.
Im also recommending that UKI pay Ms W £350 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. I appreciate that Ms W was given the use of a car over 
Christmas. But subsequently shes had to put in place alternative childcare arrangements 
because she has no car, and it is taking her longer to get to work. I do appreciate that during 
lockdown this wasnt an issue. But there was a period before and after the main lockdown 
period where Ms W was out of pocket, and I think £350 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Further to my provisional decision, both parties have replied and confirmed that theyve 
received it. Ms W has advised that she has nothing further to add and UKI has made some 
further points. Having reviewed the complaint again and having considered these points, I 
continue to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The reported fault
UKI disagree that a different fault being recorded on the roadside report to the phone call 
had any bearing on the matter. UKI says that the most pressing matter for the attending 
technician when he arrived was that Ms W's car was not starting and that is what he has 
recorded on his report.
UKI also says that it finds it difficult to accept that I could determine the attending technician 
shouldve taken a different approach when he arrived on scene, after I spoke to two garages. 
UKI say the best placed person to decide what actions should be taken at the time, was the 
attending technician. UKI says there's no evidence to suggest he took the wrong approach. 
I agree that the best placed person to decide what actions should be taken was the 
attending technician. And it looks like the attending technician approached the breakdown 
with a solution based on what he was told. However, based on what was written on 
Roadside Report dated 9 December 2019 I think there was a mis-communication between 
the agent who authorised the call out and the attending technician and the attending 
technician attended the breakdown not knowing the complete story. 
So just to clarify, Ms W reported that the car would turn over but wasnt starting and that the 
handbrake warning light was flashing. A non-start is whats recorded in the Roadside 
Report dated 9 December 2019. But the Recovery Report dated 10 December 2019 records 
the fault as an electronic handbrake issue. So, there is a disparity over what the attending 
technician was told. And because of this mis-communication and based on what the experts 
Ive spoken to have said, I think its more likely than not he was attempting to start a car that 
was immobilised in economy mode as opposed to a car that had a flat battery. And the 
advice Ive received is that a jump start isnt the correct solution to that scenario. I do think 
that its highly likely there was also a battery issue. But my understanding is that when this 
make and model of car goes into economy mode, jump starting is not the solution, and in 
certain circumstances an attempted jump start can cause further damage.So, I do think the recording of the fault had a bearing on the matter. And if the attending 
technician had been aware that the car had gone into economy mode, with an electronic 
handbraking warning fault showing, its likely he wouldve approached the attempted fix 
differently. 
Further to this Ive made it very clear that neither garage I spoke to had seen this vehicle, 
and both garages expressed caution at giving a definitive analysis of the fault. But in a 
situation where there is a conflicting narrative, its important to seek expert opinion. 
In this case its unclear whether the battery was flat or not. But its likely that the battery 
wasnt at full capacity. And Ms W couldve flattened the battery further by continually trying to 
start the car in economy mode. Its likely the attending technician tested the battery at the 
outset, given the information he had, and if the battery was low I would expect him to deduce 
that the battery was the main reason for the non-start.
But what the experts have pointed out is that its not unusual for this type of car not to start in 
economy mode, particularly if its a handbrake issue. And unfortunately, the handbrake issue 
wasnt relayed to the attending technician at the beginning. And I think this mis-
communication had a bearing on how he approached this problem. 
The use of jump leads
And this in turn leads us to the use of the jump leads. UKI says there's no evidence of the 
attending technician using jump leads, and the continued testimony from him is that only a 
booster pack was used. UKI also says that its wholly conceivable that Ms W attempted to 
jump start her vehicle before the attending technician arrived, and that is when the damage 
was caused to her car.
The note written on the Roadside Report says possible battery fault. Not able to power up 
with boost pack or jump leads. Ms W says she saw jump leads being used. Further to this 
theres no evidence to suggest that Ms W asked someone to help her to jump start her 
vehicle. So, I think on the balance of probability, and based on the evidence in the file, the 
attending technician used jump leads, even if he failed to mention this when later 
questioned. I also note that UKI agrees that jump leads, even if used correctly can cause 
damage.
The waiver
UKI says that the ombudsmans conclusion that waiver is not valid due to the customer 
being emotional is not acceptable. UKI says that if the waiver isnt acceptable than the fact 
its states jump leads were used shouldnt be accepted either. UKI says that its service 
providers are professionals and would at all times explain the form and that it was Ms Ws 
responsibility to read what she was signing. UKI says that the consumer cant have it both 
ways and that dismissing a waiver is unacceptable as a waiver releases the provider from 
any liability when trying to assist.
And I agree, that is the purpose of a waiver. In this particular waiver it says, I hereby give 
authority to jump start my vehicle and agree that the garage can accept no liability for any 
accidental / consequential damage that can occur as a result such as warning lights being 
triggered.
The waiver is in place to cover the provider if something happens outside of the attending 
agents control. And we know that in some situations, a surge can be caused even if the jump leads are used correctly. But thats not the argument that UKI are making. UKI says that 
jump leads werent used at all. 
But I think its more likely than not they were used. The attending technician said they were 
used on the Roadside Report (even if he fails to mention this later). Further to this Ms W 
says she saw sparks and smoke in the engine bay, and garage that the car was recovered 
to stated that there was a burning smell evident when it opened up the bonnet of the car. 
The garage also says that the vehicles ECU unit has been spiked with overcharge, caused 
by jump leads used with no regulator surge control or have been applied to the wrong 
terminals. 
I do appreciate UKIs argument that it was Ms Ws responsibility to read the waiver she was 
about to sign. But Im also mindful of Ms Ws vulnerability at the time, and having listened to 
the initial call, I do feel that Ms W was in a vulnerable state. But I dont think any of that 
matters because based on all Ive seen Im more persuaded by the evidence set out in the 
Roadside Report and the testimony provided by both Ms W and the garage than by what 
UKI says couldve happened at the time. I think its more likely than not that the attending 
technicians actions caused the damage to the ECU. And the waiver doesnt cover a 
situation where negligence has occurred. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to either pay Ms W the value of the car on the day the car 
was recovered to the garage or the value of the repair, whichever is most reasonable. It 
should also pay any associated diagnostic costs.
I also require UK Insurance Limited to pay Ms W £350 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman