DRN-3431449
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo Bank) blocked a transaction he had made 
and then, despite him chasing them to resolve this, they kept ignoring him. 
What happened
Mr C attempted to make a payment of £2,000 to his friend but this was blocked by Monzo 
Bank and they froze his account while they carried out an investigation. Mr C discussed this 
with Monzo Bank but wasnt happy with their service, so he complained.  
Monzo Bank responded and explained Mr Cs account was frozen as a result of their routine 
payment reviews. They said this activity exists in order for them to remain compliant and 
ensures their customers are protected from fraud. Monzo Bank explained their system flags 
payments it considers to be potentially risky. Their Disputes Team then reaches out to the 
customer to investigate the payment further and to clarify the situation and intended 
payment. Monzo Bank said their system flagged Mr Cs attempted payment as risky so his 
account was temporarily frozen to allow them to investigate. 
Monzo Bank said, although Mr C clarified he was confident with the payment and knew who 
he was paying, their Disputes Team wanted to investigate further. They said the reason for 
this is that they have found that some fraudsters ask customers to lie about their intentions in 
making payments so Monzo Bank feel it is beneficial to probe further. Monzo Bank said they 
had followed their regulatory obligations but appreciate theyve caused Mr C inconvenience 
and he has since decided to close his account. Monzo Bank apologised and acknowledged 
that Mr C was still unable to make the payment even after Monzo Bank told him his account 
was no longer frozen. So, they upheld this part of Mr Cs complaint and offered £50 
compensation.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He agreed Monzo Bank had made an error and 
thought the compensation offer of £50 was fair. So, he said he wouldnt be asking Monzo 
Bank to take any further steps. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Monzo Banks offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand Mr C will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision
Monzo Bank say they have systems in place which flag potentially risky payments to protect 
their customers. The payment by Mr C is for a significant amount, so I dont think it being 
flagged for a review is unreasonable or uncommon when considering how banks apply their 
security processes. I understand that it can be inconvenient if a transaction is held up 
pending authentication. But I dont find that Monzo Bank did anything wrong in holding up 
the payment pending investigation. Its in all our interests that security checks are enforced 
to reduce the likelihood of banks and their customers becoming victims of fraud. 
So, while I dont think it was unreasonable for the original attempted payment to be blocked 
pending investigation, Ive looked at the service given to Mr C from that point. The key facts 
about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Monzo Bank have admitted they got things 
wrong with the length of time Mr Cs account was frozen and Mr C still being unable to make 
a payment even after Monzo Bank told him his account was no longer frozen. The only issue 
I have to decide is whether Monzo Banks offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
Information provided by Monzo Bank shows an online chat conversation starts between 
them and Mr C where they explain theyve flagged his payment for review and have frozen 
his account while they look into this. Monzo Bank then ask for some further information 
about the payment and Mr C explains its to pay his friend for a holiday. Monzo Bank then 
ask if  Mr C has an invoice for the booking or a screenshot of his communication with his 
friend about the payment. Mr C then provides a screenshot of a text conversation with his 
friend who confirms he has paid the balance towards their holiday and asks for £2,000. Mr C 
then explains he hasnt been asked for this information on previous occasions and says its 
embarrassing for him. Mr C asks for this account to be closed and chases for a response 
over a period of 15 minutes. 
Monzo Bank respond and explain they have concerns about the payment and wont 
authorise it until Mr C provides them with evidence to suggest it is legitimate. They ask Mr C 
if his friend is able to send him the booking confirmation. They apologise if this causes 
delays but explain theyre doing this to protect Mr C and his money. Mr C then calls Monzo 
Bank to complain about his account being frozen due to the payment being flagged and asks 
for a manager to call him back. Mr C then calls back the following day to complain about 
what has happened and again asks for a call back. System notes provided by Monzo Bank 
show they no longer have concerns about the payment and unfreeze Mr Cs account. Mr C 
also sends Monzo Bank a message saying hes trying to transfer out the balance of his 
account and close it but theres an issue. Mr C then calls Monzo Bank again and explains he 
has attempted another payment but is still having issues. While on the call, the agent asks 
Mr C to delete and reinstall the app. This then allowed Mr C to enter details of the 
transaction but again came up with a message saying the payment has been flagged for 
review. Monzo Bank then sent a message to Mr C confirming his account was unfrozen and 
he could proceed to make the payment. Mr C was then able to transfer his money and close 
his account. I can see Monzo Bank then called Mr C but he asks them to send a final 
response to his complaint. Monzo Bank then sent Mr C a final response and offered him £50 
for the length of time his account was frozen.   
I think its right that Monzo Bank should compensate Mr C for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. Theres a number of factors here that Ive taken 
into consideration when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation.    
Mr Cs account was first blocked at 7.47pm on 28 July and it wasnt until 3.37pm the 
following day that Mr C was able to make transfers  this is just under 20 hours. During this 
time, its clear Mr C was becoming upset and increasingly frustrated. As Ive said above, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo Bank to carry out an investigation so I cant say 
theyre responsible for 20 hours of frustration and inconvenience to Mr C. But, I acknowledge 
Mr Cs frustration when, having been told during a call in the morning on 29 July that his 
account is no longer frozen, he still experiences issues in making a transfer. 
And, it isnt until around six hours later that Mr C is then able to transfer out the balance of 
his account. During this time Mr C is engaging in communication with Monzo Bank by 
webchat and phone so its clear he continued to be inconvenienced by this. So, taking this 
into account, I think the offer of compensation in the sum of £50 offered by Monzo Bank is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.     
I note Mr C says he was being ignored, but I dont agree that was the case. The information 
shows Monzo Bank were responding to Mr C through the online chat platform and they did return his call. I acknowledge there was an occasion when Mr C was chasing a response on 
the online chat but I dont think the period of time it took an agent to get back to him was 
unreasonable. 
I note Mr C feels Monzo Banks offer isnt reasonable and says his credibility has been 
damaged as his friend was no longer prepared to go on holiday with him which meant Mr C 
missed out on a holiday. I do acknowledge this will have been upsetting but, as mentioned 
above, I cant say the original payment being blocked was unreasonable. And, while Monzo 
Bank do then acknowledge it took longer than it shouldve for Mr C to make transfers again, I 
cant see they were aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that there was a risk  
Mr Cs friend may lose confidence in Mr C paying him. Mr C says the blocking of his 
payment and freezing of his account led to his friend saying Mr C had messed around in 
paying him. I understand this will have been upsetting for Mr C but I cant say these actions 
by Monzo Bank were unfair.  
Mr C also says hes concerned that, when he contacted Monzo Bank to explain what was 
happening, the call centre agents didnt have authority to resolve the issue. Mr C also feels 
changes should be made to Monzo Banks procedures and its unacceptable they operate as 
a 9.00am-5.00pm, Monday to Friday service. Mr C says hes able to discuss urgent issues 
with his main bank 24 hours a day. Monzo Bank say theyre an online bank and they conduct 
the majority of their conversations within the in-app chat as this allows them quick access to 
information. I think its important to note this service doesnt have power to require a 
business to change its processes. Or to direct a business on its operating hours or whether 
to have an online chat service where agents take initial enquiries but arent able to unblock 
accounts. These are commercial decisions taken by a business and we dont have the 
power to direct a business to change these processes.    
My final decision
Monzo Bank Ltd has already made an offer to pay £50 compensation to Mr C to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mr C £50, if they havent done so 
already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman