DRN-3339178
The complaint
Mr A acquired a new car in January 2018, by means of a 48-month conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. His financial circumstances changed after 16 
months, and his agreement was terminated by Santander in September 2019. 
Mr A complains that Santander did not help him to end his agreement in the financially least 
damaging way for him, as it should have done. 
What happened
Mr A told us that, because English is not his first language, he finds phone communications 
easier than reading. He received his first Arrears Notice from Santander, relating to his 
agreement account, in May 2019. 
Mr As complaint was in three related parts:
He felt that all the options available for dealing with his arrears were not explained to 
him, before his agreement was terminated by Santander
He also felt that his problems with reading English documents were not properly 
recognised and mitigated, in Santanders contacts with him about his arrears
He felt as well that his agreement was defective and unfair, because it did not 
properly explain his consumer rights to Voluntary Termination (VT)
Mr A complained to Santander in February 2021. It responded in March 2021, saying:
It agreed a promise to pay arrangement with Mr A by phone, shortly after his account 
fell into arrears
But Mr A did not keep to the terms of this arrangement, which was deleted in June 
2019 and Default Notices issued
A second arrangement was agreed by phone in July 2019, but this was broken in 
August 2019
Two unsuccessful attempts were made to contact Mr A by phone to discuss options 
and, in the absence of contact by him, a new Default Notice was issued
Mr As agreement was terminated in September 2019
When phone contacts are made, advice is usually given on options including VT, and 
the option of VT was also explained in Mr As agreement document
It was unable to uphold Mr As complaint
Mr A referred his complaint to us in September 2021. Both he and Santander provided 
evidence and arguments to us. 
From the information available to our investigator, she noted:
In the period between Mr As account falling into arrears and his agreement being 
terminated, he had several phone contacts with Santander  he made promises to 
clear his arrears during these contacts, but he did not suggest that he wanted to 
consider ending his agreement (even though he was advised that he could lose his 
car, if payments were not made at agreed times)
Also, during these contacts, Mr A did not express any lack of understanding of what 
he was discussing with Santander, because English is not his first language
It would not be fair or reasonable to expect Santander to tell Mr A to opt for VT, when 
he was insisting that he wanted to clear his debts and continue his agreement 
While VT may have been financially the least bad option for Mr T, this option is no 
longer available after a finance provider (Santander in this case) has terminated an 
agreement
After Santander terminated Mr As agreement, it correctly advised him to voluntarily 
surrender his car  it also told him that it would consider an affordable payment plan 
to clear his outstanding debts
There was nothing in the text of Mr As agreement with Santander that was defective, 
misleading or unfair
Taking all the above into account, our investigator concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. Mr A disagreed, saying that he had not been treated fairly in the circumstances. 
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I sympathise with Mr A. I have no reason to doubt that English is not his first language  and, 
even for people like me whose first language is English, the text of some important 
documents provided to him by Santander could have been written in clearer and plainer 
English. 
Mr A refers to a language barrier that he says he faces. But I have listened to a phone 
conversation between Mr A and Santander in May 2019. I have also read items of testimony 
provided to us by Mr A. And I would want to commend him for his command of both written 
and spoken English.
Mr A refers as well to the recent pandemic, in relation to the financial difficulties that caused 
his problems with his Santander agreement. But his dates have become muddled, 
unfortunately, because his problems arose in 2019 and the pandemic did not begin until 
2020.
Mr A argues that Santander did not alert him to Voluntary Termination (VT), which may have 
been the least financially damaging option he could have chosen. But the possibility of VT is 
clearly signalled on the front page of his Santander Agreement (even if the details are not so 
easy to find within the documents he would have received).  
And, having read Mr As Santander Agreement documents, I am unable to find that they are 
either defective or unfair.
In addition, Santander sent Mr A three Default Notices during the period May 2019 to 
September 2019. The first Notice (in June) does not refer to VT  but the second (in July) 
and third (in August) do make specific reference to VT.    VT was not discussed in the May phone conversation referred to above, and recordings of 
the several phone calls made in summer 2019 have not been provided to us. But Santander 
may have discussed VT with Mr A during these calls, as well as alerting him in writing. 
And, on the balance of probabilities, I find that VT and the options available for dealing with 
Mr As arrears were explained to him, before his agreement was terminated by Santander. 
This all means that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman