DRN-3889678
The complaint
Miss N complains Nationwide Building Society surrendered her investment without her 
consent and failed to pay her the proceeds. 
What happened
Miss N met with Nationwide in 1996 to discuss purchasing her first home. The building 
society recommended she should make the purchase using an interest-only mortgage. And 
that she should plan to repay the mortgage by investing monthly in a PEP. 
Miss N contributed to her investment for several years, before ceasing her payments in July 
2005. At some point after this date the investment was surrendered. 
In around 2021, Miss N made a series of complaints to Nationwide. A number of which have 
been referred to our service and considered separately. One of these complaints was that 
her investment had been surrendered without her consent, and that shed never received the 
proceeds. She also complained her investment had been mis-sold.  
Nationwide didnt agree with Miss Ns complaint. It explained that due to the passage of time 
it had very little information left about the surrender of Miss Ns investment. But its records 
suggested the surrender was likely to have happened between 2005 and 2008. Nationwide 
rejected the notion that it wouldve surrendered the investment without Miss Ns consent. 
And it felt the investment had been fairly sold. 
As she was unhappy with Nationwides response, Miss N referred the matter to our service. 
Nationwide didnt consent to our service investigating this complaint. I made the decision 
that our service could consider Miss Ns complaint about the surrender of her investments, 
but not her concerns about the way it was originally sold to her. Miss N has clarified she is 
not complaining about the way the investment was sold. 
Our investigator proceeded to consider the merits of Miss Ns complaint about the surrender 
of her investments. The evidence persuaded him that, on the balance of probability, it was 
likely that Miss N had surrendered the investment herself and had received its proceeds. 
As Miss N didnt accept our investigators findings, the matters been referred back to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ns complaint has been expressed to us across a series of emails weve received from 
her. Taken as a whole, her complaint is that:  
She never agreed for the investment to be surrendered. 
She never received the proceeds when it was surrendered. 
The exact date the investment was surrendered is not known by either party. But Nationwide 
has estimated it took place at some point between June 2005 and February 2008. Its 
explained that according to Miss Ns current account statements, she made her last payment 
towards the investment on 6 June 2005. Its also noted that had the investment remained 
active beyond February 2008, it wouldve formed part of a bundle of accounts which were 
transferred across to a new provider when the building society discontinued its investment 
business. As theres no record of such a transfer taking place, Nationwide reasons the 
closure mustve occurred prior to this date. Its explained that, due to the passage of time, it 
has no records which relate directly to the surrender of Miss Ns investment
Miss N has provided no evidence or counternarrative which would give me cause to doubt 
Nationwides theory. I therefore think its likely that, as Nationwides said, Miss Ns 
investment was surrendered at some point between June 2005 and February 2008. 
Mindful of this, it strikes me that there are two potential scenarios which could give rise to the 
complaint Miss N is now making. At some point between June 2005 and February 2008, 
either: 
A) Miss Ns investment was surrendered by someone other than her, and the proceeds 
were paid to a third party or intercepted without her knowledge or consent. Or, 
B) Miss N surrendered the investments herself and doesnt recall doing so.  
I should first say that when the evidence or testimony surrounding a complaint is incomplete 
or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other 
words, means I base my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened given the 
available evidence. Mindful of this, Ive looked at what little evidence there is which relates to 
Miss Ns investment, to establish which of the two scenarios outlined above I consider to be 
more likely. 
Scenario A
Ive considered the possibility that someone other than Miss N surrendered the investment. 
Theres been no suggestion that anyone other than Miss N had the authority to make this 
request. Therefore I think that doing so without Miss Ns knowledge, wouldve likely required 
the unknown individual to deceive the building society into giving them access. And as she 
claims to have never received the proceeds, theyll also likely have needed to deceive 
Nationwide into either paying the proceeds into an account which didnt belong to Miss N, or 
sending a cheque to someone other than her. Its not impossible that a cheque issued in 
Miss Ns name couldve been intercepted and paid into an account she didnt control. But 
doing so would likely have required further levels of deception, not just of Nationwide, but 
potentially also of the receiving bank. 
This scenario is not an impossibility. I accept Miss N could have been the victim of an 
elaborate and targeted attempt to deprive her of her investment funds. But I think the 
possibility of this is very low. Successfully deceiving Nationwide into releasing the money 
wouldve been made more difficult by any security processes it had in place at the time. And 
it seems to me that if an unauthorised individual had this level of access to Miss Ns money 
and possessed a desire to steal it from her, its unlikely theyd confine their theft solely to 
Miss Ns investment funds. And Miss Ns provided no evidence as part of her complaint that 
suggests fraudsters have targeted any of her other savings in the way Ive described above. 
Nor has she provided any other explanation of how she thinks her investments couldve 
been surrendered and paid away without her knowledge or consent. The only evidence Ive seen which supports the possibility of this scenario, is Miss Ns own 
testimony that she didnt surrender the investment or receive its proceeds. Having 
considered this possibility in detail, the evidence persuades me that Scenario B is more 
likely to explain whats happened here. Ill explain why. 
Scenario B
Ive seen a July 2005 statement for Miss Ns current account, which is the month after she 
ceased making payments towards the investment. This is the same account she was making 
her monthly investment contributions from. On this statement I can see two cheque credits 
being paid to Miss N. One for £4,098.80, and another for £1,452.61. 
On the balance of probability, I think these two cheque credits are likely to be the proceeds 
from Miss Ns investment. I say this because: 
Based on the amounts Miss N was contributing towards her investment, the 
cumulative total of these credits is an approximate match. 
The amounts arent an exact match for the total amount Miss N had been saving, but 
her investment was linked to the stock market so its value wouldve fluctuated. 
Miss Ns investment began as a PEP but was later converted into an ISA. This meant 
her investment was split across two products, likely necessitating two surrenders and 
therefore two payments. 
The timing of these payments, a little under a month after Miss N stopped paying 
towards the investment, would be consistent with the investment being surrendered 
and the proceeds being paid to her. 
Nationwide has records of a financial review it held with Miss N in 2003. The value of 
her PEP and ISA were noted in documents at that point. These two values are in 
step with the cheque credits she later received, assuming she continued making the 
same regular payments shed been making, with an allowance for movements in the 
stock market. 
At that time, it was not uncommon for investment providers to issue the proceeds of 
investments as cheques to their customers. 
Miss N has identified the credits as coming from a different source. She says the cheques 
were from a mini ISA and a savings account she held at the time. But shes been unable to 
produce any evidence which proves this. 
I accept its possible that the circumstances Ive highlighted above could all be coincidental. 
And the true source of the cheques could be the ones Miss Ns identified. But as Ive 
explained, when the facts of a case are ambiguous, I must make my decision on the balance 
of probability. And in this case, the circumstances and evidence Ive highlighted above 
persuade me its fair and reasonable to conclude the cheques are likely to represent the 
proceeds of Miss Ns investment. Theres nothing Miss Ns said or provided for my 
consideration that would persuade me its more likely the cheques came from the sources 
shes identified. 
This of course does not explain who gave the authority for the investment to be surrendered 
in the first place. Nationwide has been clear that it holds no records of any sort relating to 
this. And Miss N is adamant that she never gave her permission. But on the balance of 
probability, I think the investments were likely surrendered at Miss Ns request. 
As I explained earlier, theres been no suggestion that anyone other than Miss N had the 
authority to give instructions on her investments. Its not clear to me what an unknown and 
unauthorised individual would gain from surrendering Miss Ns investments, given that Ive found the proceeds were likely paid into her current account. So it doesnt seem likely that 
the request wouldve come from anyone but Miss N, the only party authorised to give 
instructions on the investment. 
Ive also noted from the current account statement I highlighted earlier that Miss N paid a 
cheque of £4,000 out of her account around two weeks after she received the proceeds of 
the investment. Looking at her balance during this period, it wouldnt have been possible for 
her to make this payment without surrendering the investment. It may well have been that 
Miss N surrendered the investments specifically to pay this cost. But from the evidence 
available, Im persuaded its likely that Miss N surrendered her investment with Nationwide 
herself, and that she also received the proceeds in July 2005. 
Miss N has mentioned shes unhappy she never received any paperwork relating to the 
investment. But the only detriment she claims to have suffered as a result was not being 
aware that her investment had been surrendered. As Ive explained above, Im persuaded 
she was likely aware of this. Therefore even if Nationwide did fail to provide Miss N with the 
paperwork shes said was absent, Im not persuaded shes lost out as a result. 
Miss N has also noted how concerned she is that Nationwide holds no records of the 
surrender of her investment. Shes suggested this represents negligent record keeping on 
the building societys part. But Im not persuaded Nationwides done anything wrong here. 
Businesses like Nationwide arent obligated to retain all of their paperwork indefinitely. They 
have a level of discretion on what they choose to retain and for how long. And in this case, 
Ive found that roughly 15 years had passed between the surrender of Miss Ns investment 
and her subsequent complaint about it. Given that there was seemingly no cause for 
concern during that period of time, I dont think its unreasonable of Nationwide to have 
disposed of its records. The building society has suggested it tends to retain documents for a 
set amount of years, which is fairly common practice across the industry. Im therefore not 
persuaded its treated her unfairly by disposing of its records.  
In summation of Miss Ns main complaint, I do not uphold it. Im not persuaded the building 
society has treated her unfairly, because I think shes likely to have been both the originator 
and recipient of the surrender of her investments.
Im conscious these findings are likely to come as a disappointment to Miss N. Its clear from 
her testimony that she feels very strongly about this issue. And I dont doubt Miss Ns 
concerns were raised sincerely. But I hope she will appreciate my role here is to remain 
impartial and to weigh the evidence and testimonies provided by both parties. On this 
occasion, the weight of evidence submitted has persuaded me to make the conclusions Ive 
outlined above. I hope Miss N will understand my reasons for doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman