DRN-2941697
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain through their representatives about the service theyve received from 
Raymond James Investment Services Ltd. In summary theyre unhappy with the lack of 
advice and portfolio rebalancing and also think Mr Fs vulnerability hasnt been taken into 
account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F opened an account with RJIS in 2005. They agreed that RJIS would manage 
their holdings on a discretionary basis based on a balanced risk mandate. 
They complained to RJIS in 2019 who partially upheld the complaint. RJIS thought that 
theyd contacted Mr and Mrs F at least once a year and invited them to get in touch if there 
were any changes to their needs and circumstances. Theyd also provided them with 
quarterly valuation reports. 
However, they thought it wasnt clear if any discussions had taken place regarding Mr and 
Mrs Fs risk appetite. But they were satisfied that there hadnt been any financial loss as the 
portfolio had produced good returns. They offered Mr and Mrs F compensation of £500 for 
the inconvenience theyd suffered. 
RJIS then issued a further response to subsequent points that Mr and Mrs Fs 
representatives had made. They thought that they hadnt been made aware of Mr Fs 
vulnerability until 2019 when the complaint was made. They also thought that a fee increase 
in 2013 wasnt unreasonable and believed that the portfolio had been actively serviced. They 
accepted that theyd caused additional distress to Mrs F by contacting her after the 
complaint had been raised and increased their offer of compensation to £750. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives didnt agree with RJIS and brought the complaint to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt believe 
that RJIS needed to do anything further to resolve the complaint. She thought that there was 
nothing to suggest that a fixed number of trades or a yearly face to face meeting were 
mandatory under the terms of the agreement that Mr and Mrs F had with RJIS. She also 
thought that the fees relating to the account were disclosed to Mr and Mrs F and theyd 
agreed to the increase. 
She noted that Mr and Mrs Fs representatives thought the portfolio should have performed 
better but didnt think that Mr and Mrs Fs portfolio had been negligently managed. She was 
satisfied that regular updates were provided to Mr and Mrs F and the regular updates had 
confirmed that consideration had been given to the portfolio and changes were only made 
when the investment manager thought they were necessary. 
She noted that Mrs F notified RJIS of Mr Fs forgetfulness in February 2018 but didnt think 
this would have alerted RJIS of more serious concerns. She pointed to a Power of Attorney 
that was granted in November 2017 but not communicated to RJIS until November 2019. 
And even after this date, no changes to the mandate were proposed. 
She appreciated that RJIS had a requirement for its investment managers to revisit suitability 
every 12 months and to complete a new Client Investment Profile every three years. This 
profile was not completed in the case of Mr and Mrs F, but it couldnt be said what changes, 
if any, would have been made and it was therefore difficult to link this to financial loss or 
gain. Therefore, she thought the offer of compensation from RJIS was fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives didnt agree and said, in summary:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had set out their expectations of firms in their 
thematic review TR 15/12. From their analysis of the review, RJIS were not meeting 
the requirements.
The last face to face meeting was in 2010 and there had been no ongoing suitability 
review, proactive contact or review of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. All the contact 
from RJIS had been in response to administrative issues - mostly around 
withdrawals.
The POA was signed in 2017 but at this time Mr F did not have signs of dementia. It 
was only at the end of 2019 that the representatives took over responsibilities for his 
affairs as his now diagnosed dementia became worse. There was no requirement 
then to send RJIS a copy of the POA until late 2019 but it remained that RJIS should 
have investigated Mrs Fs comments more proactively in 2018. 
Theyd sent clear evidence from the original initial adviser saying that the investment 
criteria set was 50% Fixed Interest / 50% Equity with approximately 60% UK, 20% 
US, 10% Europe and 10% Far East. However, the investigator ignored this point.  
The tolerance was 10% between equity and fixed interest. Therefore, at most the 
portfolio drift should be 55% / 45%. Theyd sent in evidence that at times this was 
60% / 40%. 
They hadnt specifically complained about investment performance. However, if the 
mandate had been managed in line with the agreed splits including geographical 
equities, it would have resulted in higher returns with lower volatility. 
They also reiterated their view that RJIS charged for services that they didnt deliver. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think RJIS need to do anything else to resolve this complaint and I 
will go on to explain why. But Id firstly like to say that I appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs 
representatives strength of feeling regarding this complaint. Id like to assure them that Ive 
read and considered everything theyve told us. Im aware Ive summarised their complaint 
points in less detail than they have, but this simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service. I also like to say that Im very sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Fs health problems and the understandable impact it must be having on them.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have raised a number of concerns with how RJIS runs their 
business. I think it may be helpful to remind them that this service isnt the regulator, that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service therefore doesnt have the power to 
make rules for financial businesses, or direct that they change their policy or procedures. 
Our role here is to look at what happened in the circumstances of this complaint and check 
that RJIS followed their rules and procedures  as well as those set by the regulator and 
any relevant industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly.
The available evidence shows that when Mr and Mrs F opened the account with RJIS in 
2005 they were assessed as having a balanced attitude to risk and agreed a mandate with 
RJIS defining how the portfolio would be managed. The portfolio was to be managed with 
an asset allocation of 50% equities and 50% fixed income. A subsequent proposal noted 
the initial makeup of the equity holding as 63% UK equities, 18% US equities, 9% 
European equities and 9% Japan/Far East/Emerging Market equities.
It isnt in dispute that RJIS didnt review Mr and Mrs Fs suitability for a number of years - 
the last review recorded was completed in 2010. Broadly speaking, RJIS had an obligation 
to ensure that the suitability information they held for Mr and Mrs F was up to date. Theyve 
said that their policy is to revisit suitability every 12 months and to complete a new Client 
Investment Profile every three years. This wasnt done so I must determine if Mr and Mrs F 
have lost out as a result.
Ive reviewed the correspondence between RJIS and Mr and Mrs F. From what Ive seen 
RJIS sent Mr and Mrs F an update at least once a year and asked Mr and Mrs F to let them 
know if there were any changes to their circumstances. I do not this consider this to be 
sufficient to fully understand Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances.
However, I havent seen anything in the correspondence to suggest that Mr and Mrs Fs 
attitude to risk or capacity for loss had changed, or that they wanted changes to the 
portfolio because they were unhappy with its performance. There is a note from 
correspondence from 2013 where Mr F implies that he wanted to take more risk, but Mrs F 
didnt. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think I can fairly say that there is any persuasive 
evidence that the portfolio would have changed if RJIS had revisited Mr and Mrs Fs 
suitability. I think the correspondence between both parties implies that the mandate that 
was in place was broadly what Mr and Mrs F wanted.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Fs representatives think that there was a lack of activity on 
the portfolio. Theyve pointed to the relatively low number of trades on the portfolio, but I 
havent seen any evidence that the mandate defined a minimum number of trades each 
year. Instead it was down to RJIS discretion to make trades as they saw fit.  So Im not 
persuaded that RJIS have acted unfairly regarding this point. From what Ive seen, even 
though there wasnt a lot of activity on the account, there is evidence to show that some 
rebalancing had taken place.
The representatives have also raised concerns about the asset allocation within the 
portfolio. Theyve said that at times it was as high as 60% equities and the equities were 
also not in the agreed regional split. I take the points theyve made but I think there was an 
allowed tolerance within the portfolio. This tolerance was 10% and while the 
representatives think this means 10% of each asset class, I think it means 10% of the 
overall portfolio. Therefore, an equity holding of 60% wouldnt have been outside of what was allowed.
This also impacted the regional split and growth on the holdings also meant that at times 
the regional split wasnt in line with the initial proposal, but I dont think this wasnt allowed. I 
say this because while the initial proposal set out what the regional splits would be, there 
wasnt an explicit statement that those splits must be maintained. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives contend that RJIS should have been aware of Mr Fs 
vulnerability following the contact from Mrs F in 2018. Notes from the time say **** is 
apparently becoming a bit forgetful and his wife **** has asked to have on-line access using 
her email address. I appreciate the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives and 
Ive carefully considered if RJIS should have done more following the contact in 2018. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) defines a vulnerable consumer as someone who 
due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment, particularly when 
a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. I appreciate this may come as a 
disappointment, but I dont think the mention of forgetfulness would have been enough to 
alert RJIS that there was a serious underlying issue or that he was especially susceptible to 
detriment. In any event, it was a joint account, so Mrs F wouldve had oversight as 
demonstrated by her asking to granted online access. Therefore, Im not persuaded that 
RJIS need to do anything else regarding this point. 
So, having taken everything into account, I think the offer they have made of £750 for their 
error is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Raymond James Investment Services Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs F £750 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyve caused them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I partially uphold this complaint. Raymond James Investment 
Services Ltd should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman