The complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited hasn't provided him with a full 
breakdown of the maturity value of his "Flexible Mortgage Plus" endowment policy, as it 
hasn't shown how a promised enhancement to the final bonus has been applied. 
What happened
Mr N took out his policy in 1994 over a 25-year term. In 2015 Aviva wrote to Mr N and other 
policyholders to explain that a surplus within its with profits fund in which he was invested 
meant Aviva would be able to pay an enhancement to final bonuses when policies matured. 
It estimated that the enhancement would equate to around 7.5% given the position in 2015, 
but noted this could change over time.
When the policy was approaching maturity in July 2019 Mr N contacted Aviva for some 
information about the policy and its likely maturity value. There was a delay in providing the 
information and some confusion caused by the final maturity value being slightly less that a 
value given to Mr N a few days earlier. But Aviva eventually provided Mr N with a breakdown 
of the maturity value, showing what final bonus had been paid in respect of the with profits 
parts of the investment. It confirmed its figures had been checked by an actuary and that the 
enhancement had been applied. It also offered Mr N £100 for the delay in providing him with 
the maturity breakdown. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service as he wasn't happy that Aviva hadn't given a more 
detailed breakdown showing the impact of the enhancement. Our investigator considered 
the matter but concluded that Aviva hadn't done anything wrong. He felt that the offer for the 
delay was fair. And in respect of the main part of the complaint - the failure to show the 
enhancement - he felt that Aviva wasn't obliged to give more detail, so its confirmation that 
the enhancement had been applied was sufficient.
Mr N didn't accept this as he felt Aviva should be able show in separate calculations how the 
enhancement had been applied. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr N's frustration that Aviva hasn't provided him with more detail about how the 
enhancement has been applied. I can understand why that the absence of detail might lead 
DRN-1548547to a lack of confidence that Aviva has correctly done everything it should've - particularly 
given the additional issue of the delay in him receiving the maturity value. 
But the level of detail Aviva has provided to Mr N is in keeping with the level of detail usually 
provided in respect of with profits annual and final bonuses, both by Aviva and by other 
businesses. Policyholders frequently ask for more detail, not only about ad hoc items like 
Aviva's enhancement, but also about how bonuses in general have been calculated. But as 
the investigator highlighted, Aviva is under no obligation to provide more than it already has.
The calculation of bonuses for with profits investments will include information that is 
commercially sensitive, so businesses rarely, if ever, agree to provide the sort of detail that 
Mr N is seeking. I would only expect it to do so where there was clear evidence of potential 
error or wrongdoing, which I don't feel there is in this case. Aviva has confirmed that the 
enhancement has been applied and that the figures have been checked by an actuary. This 
being so, I wouldn't expect it to do any more. 
In respect of the delayed maturity value, I think the offer of £100 to compensate Mr N for the 
trouble caused is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman