DRN-4458022
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc closed his bank accounts but continued to allow his 
current account to operate, including allowing direct debit payments to be made from it. As 
he result, he ran up a debt which affected his credit rating.  
What happened
Mr F held a current account with Santander. In or about May 2021 he applied for a savings 
account. After initially accepting the application, Santander reviewed it and decided that it 
would not open the account. In addition, it decided that it would close Mr Fs current account. 
On 7 June 2021 Santander wrote to Mr F. Its letter said:
Thank you for applying for a EVERYDAY SAVER.
Unfortunately, although we initially accepted your application, after reviewing some 
additional information weve had to withdraw our decision to offer you this account.
This means we need to withdraw your banking facilities immediately and close all of your 
accounts.
What weve done
Weve placed restrictions on the following accounts, which well be closing in 30 days:

This means we won't authorise any more transactions and any payments into the account 
will be returned to the originator.
How to withdraw any remaining funds
Please visit your local Santander branch, making sure you bring your photographic ID (for 
example, a passport or driving licence) and proof of account ownership (for example, a card 
or passbook for the account). You must also hand over any cards or chequebooks you hold 
for this account, as they won't be accepted any more.

Mr F went to a branch on 10 June 2021 and withdrew funds from the account, reducing the 
balance to zero. He says he was told that was the end of the matter and he did not need to 
do anything further. 
Over the following month, however, a payment of £40 was credited to the account, and three 
direct debit payments were made from it. A further direct debit payment was returned. This 
left the account overdrawn by nearly £250. 
Between December 2021 and March 2022, a further three payments were credited to the 
account. Mr F then paid off the balance of just over £150. In the meantime, however, the 
account had been defaulted and the debt passed to a collection agency, and Mr Fs credit 
score had reduced significantly. 
Mr F complained to the bank about what had happened. It wrote to him in June 2022 to say 
that it had acted correctly when he had not paid the amount outstanding on the account. Mr 
F did not accept the banks response, and it wrote to him again in August 2022. Its letter 
included the following:
Investigating the full journey of the account there is no evidence that the account was closed 
or that you were advised that it was closed in June 2021. This means that when Direct 
Debits came out on the 1st of July 2021, your account was taken £245 overdrawn.
We sent numerous letters asking you to address the debt balance on the account however 
received no communication from you. This means that the account moved to default and 
was then passed out to a third party debt collection agency as is the process when a 
customer has a debt that isn't being addressed in any way.
Mr F then referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. She concluded however that Mr F ought to have known that debts were 
building up on the account and that Mr F ought therefore to have taken steps to address 
them. 
Mr F did not accept the investigators assessment. He said that he cancelled the direct 
debits and that he did not receive any correspondence about them or the account, since he 
had changed his address. Since the account was closed, he did not feel the need to tell the 
bank about the change. Mr F asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied first of all that Santander was within its rights to close Mr Fs account in the 
way that it did. And I note that he was able to act on the closure notice he received by 
attending the branch and withdrawing the money that was in the account. 
Mr Fs main complaint, however, is that he was led to believe that, once the account balance 
had been reduced to zero, that would be the end of the matter. I can understand why he 
thought that would be the case. Santanders letter of 7 June 2021 was very clear that no 
payments from the account would be authorised and that credits to the account would be 
returned to the sender. Neither of those statements was entirely accurate. 
Between June 2021 and March 2022 four payments were made to the account, totalling 
£135. Whilst Santander had said, incorrectly, that they would be returned to sender, I do not 
believe that Mr F suffered any loss when they werent. On the contrary, he had the benefit of 
them, since they reduced the amount he owed the bank. 
The debt on the account was caused by the payment of three direct debits. These were 
regular payments for insurance, gym membership and to the DVLA. The bank says that they 
were not blocked because there is little risk associated with direct debits. I can understand 
the rationale here, but that is not what it had told Mr F. It had said that no transactions would 
be authorised; it did not make an exception for direct debit payments. 
I note as well that, when Santander wrote to Mr F in August 2022, it said that there was no 
evidence that the account was closed in June 2021, or that Mr F had been told that it had 
been closed. I dont accept that. Mr F was not told definitively that the account had been 
closed, but I think it was reasonable for him to think from the letter of 7 June 2021 that it 
would be closed. Be that as it may, I think Mr F would have found out fairly soon after he had withdrawn all the 
funds from the account that it was still operative  albeit in a very limited way. He would have 
known that the businesses with which he had set up direct debits had not been paid by any 
other method. Its likely too that they would have given notice of upcoming payments, which 
should have included confirmation that they would take payments by direct debit. 
In addition, one direct debit payment failed, and Mr F was given notice of that. The bank 
says it wrote to him about the debt. Mr F says that he had changed address, but had not 
notified Santander of that. I do note however that the address which Mr F used when he 
referred his complaint to this service is the same address the bank used to tell him about the 
intended closure of the account and (in June and August 2022) to respond to his complaint. 
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Mr F did know payments were still 
being taken from his account and that he needed to take action. 
I do believe that Santanders communication in this case could have been very much clearer 
than it was. But I believe too that Mr F should have known fairly soon that  whatever he 
might have been told when he withdrew his money  he needed to act to prevent debt 
building up.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and I do not 
require Santander UK Plc to do anything further to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman