DRN-4292695
The complaint
Mr G complains that  a car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with Black 
Horse Limited (Blackhorse) was mis sold to him. He has not specified the redress he would 
like.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr G says the details of the agreement werent explained to him and that 
its difficult for him to evidence a conversation he had at the time. However, I have 
seen the agreement Mr G signed. It makes clear the cash price, deposit, amount of 
credit, interest , purchase fee, the total charge for credit, the repayment balance and 
total amount payable. These amounts are also explained in notes alongside each 
amount. The duration of the agreement and APR rate are also noted.
 Mr G also signed to say three steps  that is the pre contract credit information, pre 
contractual explanation and affordability and change of circumstances had been 
gone through before he signed the agreement. So, I think Mr G had sufficient 
information to know what the agreement he signed for entailed. Consumers are 
expected to read and understand the documentation for agreements they sign. If Mr 
G wasnt sure , didnt understand , or felt rushed to sign the agreement he could have 
chosen not to do so.
I understand Mr G wanted to return the car the same day he got it, so I appreciate he 
might find it harsh he wasnt allowed to do so. Mr G did have the right under the 
standard 14 day cooling off period, to cancel the finance agreement. If he had done 
so he would have had to pay  the full amount of credit back to Black Horse. However, 
cancelling the agreement wouldnt have allowed him to return the car.  Mr G signed a 
legally binding agreement, there was no onus on the dealership to take the car back 
unless it wasnt fit for purpose  i.e., faulty  and I have seen no evidence of this.
I appreciate Mr G says there was an issue with the servicing of the car. Mr  G doesnt 
agree with Black Horse that the car was correctly serviced however as I understand it 
Mr G is no longer in possession of the car so this isnt something I can investigate. I 
understand Mr G did raise a separate complaint with Black Horse over the quality of 
the car but didnt seem at this time to have raised an issue with the service history 
which I might have expected him to do if there was a problem with it.
As I have no evidence the agreement was mis sold to Mr G I cant reasonably expect 
Black Horse to provide Mr G with any redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman