DRN-2475387
The complaint
Mr R complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Ltd trading as Argos (Argos) unfairly 
applied a default marker on his credit file.
What happened
Mr R applied and was accepted for an Argos store card in 2016. In February 2018, Mr R 
missed repaying the minimum repayment, and this continued for the next few months. Argos 
wrote to Mr R on 3 April 2018 notifying him of the arrears. They explained that if the arrears 
werent paid within 14 days of the letter, then further action could be taken, and additionally a 
default may be registered on his credit file.
On 11 April 2018 Mr R spoke to Argos to confirm the outstanding balance  (the arrears 
were around £19, and the full outstanding balance was around £70). Mr R said hed call 
back later that day to repay the balance in full. When he called back later that day, he 
explained he had a disability, was unable to work at the time and was struggling financially.  
He asked for an extension to repay the balance owed and Mr R says this was agreed. But at 
the end of April 2018, a balance of around £80 was transferred to a debt collection service. 
Mr R explained to them that Argos had agreed an extension for repayment, but they said 
hed need to take this up with Argos and that the debt needed repaying urgently to avoid 
further action.
Mr R says this caused him a lot of nervousness and distress, and so he asked a family 
member to lend him the money to repay the outstanding balance in fulll. The balance was 
fully repaid on 21 May 2018. But Mr R says he was unaware Argos had applied a default to 
the account on 18 May 2018 until he applied for car finance the following year and it was 
declined due to the default marker.
Mr R raised a complaint with Argos that theyd applied the default marker unfairly as theyd 
previously agreed an extension for him to repay the balance. Argos said they had no record 
or call recording of Mr R calling back or that an extension was agreed, and that theyd also 
sent a default notice to him prior to that. As Argos refused to remove the default and accept 
responsibility for the impact this had on Mr Rs credit file, he approached our service for help.
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint but he didnt think Argos had acted 
unfairly in applying the default. He could see no evidence of a follow-up call or that Mr R had 
made Argos aware of his difficult circumstances. Therefore, the default had applied in line 
with the terms and conditions of the Argos account. Mr R was unhappy with the outcome - 
he said that Argos fabricated that theyd sent a default notice and deleted the second call 
recording. He didnt think his circumstances had been taken into consideration, and so 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says the first he knew of the arrears is when someone from Argos contacted him by 
phone on 11 April 2018, and that Argos never sent him a default notice on 3 April 2018. Ive 
listened to the call Mr R had with Argos on 11 April 2018, and its clear that Mr R called 
Argos rather than an agent initiating the call with Mr R. He explains to the agent that hed 
just returned from travelling and was in the process of sorting out his finances. He said he 
knew he was late in making payment and asked for the outstanding balance. He was 
advised of the minimum payment to clear the arrears as well as the full amount to clear the 
entire balance. Mr R said hed clear the whole balance, at which the adviser asked whether 
this would impact is finances. Mr R replied no and that hed call back in an hour or two to 
clear the balance. 
I appreciate Mr R says he never received the letter of 3 April 2018. Ive seen the letter and it 
was correctly addressed to Mr R at his correct postal address. So, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think its more likely Mr R did receive the letter, and as explained above, this 
is what prompted him to call Argos on 11 April 2018.
Argos dont have a note or recording of the follow-up call Mr R says he made. And Ive also 
asked Mr R for evidence of the call on an itemised phone bill  but he hasnt been able to 
provide this either. I appreciate the importance Mr R is putting on this call and what he says 
was agreed, but I dont think Mr Rs testimony alone is enough to satisfy me that Argos 
agreed to an extension for the repayment of the card balance. Based on the conversation Mr 
R had with Argos, I think its more likely than not that Mr R called Argos on 11 April 2018 as 
a result of receiving the default notice of 3 April 2018.
Ive carefully considered what Mr R has told me about his circumstances at the time and the 
difficulties he was having with his health. Its unclear from what Mr R says as to why the 
account was in arrears  on the call he made to Argos he says hed only got back the day 
before after hed been travelling for a few months and was calling to sort out his finances. 
Yet hes told me that hed missed the payments due to poor health and suffering a financial 
crisis. 
Mr R has given me evidence of his health concerns at the time, which started around 
January 2018 after a serious fall, and the impact this had on his ability to work. But from 
looking at the medical reports Mr R has given me which are dated between the end of April 
2018 and August 2018, I cant see that the difficulty he was having with his health would 
have prevented him from being able to make contact with Argos about the arrears, or impact 
him being able to make a repayment.
Hes also given me copies of his bank statements to show he was in a financial crisis around 
the time he got into arrears. But from the statements hes given me, Mr Rs account had a 
credit balance and doesnt appear to have had any problems with his finances at the time. 
I have to base my decision on the information I have and the evidence thats presented to 
me. And where theres missing evidence, I need to decide whats most likely to have 
happened considering the information I have. Taking everything into account, Mr R hasnt 
shown he had exceptional circumstances that would mean Im persuaded to ask Argos to 
remove the default placed on Mr Rs credit file. I know this isnt the outcome Mr R was 
hoping for, and I appreciate the impact the default is having on his finances and future plans 
 especially considering the default is for a small amount of money. But a credit file needs to 
be an accurate reflection of a consumers ability to repay credit facilities, and Argos acted 
fairly in applying the default in line with what they knew of Mr Rs circumstances at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman