DRN-3190224
The complaint
Mr B complains that Homeserve Membership Limited unfairly retained premiums on a policy 
he said he was unaware of, and couldnt use. He wants his premiums refunded.
What happened
Mr B held a home emergency policy with Homeserve. He believes the policy was sold to him 
as part of a house purchase in 2017. The policy provides cover for Mr Bs plumbing, 
drainage and water supply pipe, and covers things like repairs to leaks and blockages within 
the plumbing and drainage system. 
Mr B moved out of the above property around July 2018 having sold it, and said that he 
believed hed cancelled all payments for anything relating to his old property. He said it was 
only recently, when making enquiries with a broker to release equity from his new property, 
that he was made aware he was paying for the insurance. He said he believed the monthly 
repayment to be related to his water bill. So at this point, he cancelled the policy and 
complained. He said he thinks he should be refunded his premiums from July 2018 onwards, 
as he wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy from that point.
Homeserve considered Mr Bs complaint, but said that the policy terms were clear that Mr B 
needed to notify them at the time if he wanted to cancel the policy or if he moved address, 
and theyd received no such notification. They said they would consider a refund of 
premiums if Mr B could prove hed sold the property; and could provide evidence that he had 
similar cover in place with another provider.
Mr B provided Homeserve with a copy of his buildings and contents insurance policy, but 
they said this wasnt home emergency cover. And therefore, there was still an insurable 
interest at his new address, and he couldve transferred the policy there. Theyve said that 
they wouldve considered, and still would consider, any claim at the new address subject to 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So they said they were right not to refund him.
But Mr B maintained that he didnt know he had the policy, so much so that, when he had an 
escape of water at his new address, he didnt think to claim on it. So, unhappy with 
Homeserves response, he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He said that he 
didnt think it was right for Mr B to pay for something that was of no use to him. So he 
recommended Homeserve refund the premiums hed paid since he moved in July 2018, up 
until the cancellation of the policy in April 2021. 
Mr B accepted the investigators findings, but Homserve didnt. They said that Mr B 
shouldve been aware he had the policy as there had been regular payments leaving his 
bank account for a considerable amount of time. They reiterated that Mr B had not followed 
what was required in terms of either cancelling the policy, or changing his address. And they 
were satisfied Mr B had no comparable cover in place, and there was therefore an insurable 
interest at the new property, under which he could have potentially claimed.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case came to me for review. I issued a provisional 
decision, where in summary, I said that I didnt think Homeserve were wrong in not refunding 
his premiums, as I was satisfied Mr B hadnt notified Homeserve that he wanted the policy 
cancelled, and he couldve claimed on it at his new address.
Homeserve responded to my provisional decision confirming that they had nothing further to 
add. Mr B responded and said that if hed received the policy or renewal documents, he 
wouldve cancelled the policy earlier. He wanted to know how the documents had been sent 
to him  hed also like to see copies of the documents. He also re-iterated that he wasnt 
sure how the product was taken out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. And, I want to 
say that I have taken on board all of the additional comments Mr B has raised. 
Looking first at the point Mr B has raised about not being aware he had the policy, I can see 
the policy was taken out in May 2017. I can see the policy schedule was sent to his address 
in May 2017, and renewal documentation was sent to him in April 2018  both prior to him 
moving in July 2018. So, while I appreciate the reasons Mr B has given for saying he wasnt 
aware of the policy, given the above, and the fact that there were monthly repayments 
leaving his account each month since 2017, on balance, I dont think I can hold Homeserve 
responsible for Mr B not realising he had this cover in place. 
Mr B has asked how the policy documents and renewal documentation were sent to him. 
And Homeserve have confirmed they were sent by post, and to the recorded address they 
held for Mr B. And this was the address they held prior to Mr B informing them of any 
address change. So Im satisfied Homeserve made Mr B suitably aware the policy was both 
in place, and that it would be renewing a year later. Ive attached a copy of these documents 
along with this final decision.
Mr B has also reiterated that he wasnt sure how the product was taken out. If Mr B still 
wants to know more about this, then he should raise this directly with Homeserve in the first 
instance. Should he still remain unhappy having done so, then he can refer the matter to our 
service for consideration. 
Ive next gone on to look at what was required of Mr B in the event he moved address or 
wanted to cancel the policy. The policy summary says:
How do I change my policy address?
If you need to amend your policy address details you can do so via our online change of address form at 
www.homeserve.com/changeaddress. Alternatively you can call Customer Services on 0330 0247 999.
How do I cancel my policy?
If your policy does not provide the cover you need or you wish to cancel for any other reason, please contact us 
first by:  Calling us on 0330 0247 999; or  Writing to us at Freepost RLYC-LXAL-GEEH, Customer Admin 
Department, HomeServe, Cable Drive, Walsall WS2 7BN. Remember to include your policy number. If you 
decide to cancel, please read your Terms & Conditions.The policy terms and conditions also state:
How can my policy be cancelled?
Only the named policyholder(s) or an authorised representative of the named policyholder(s) should call or write 
to cancel. Please make sure you contact us to cancel your policy so that we do not attempt to collect any future 
payments. Your policy may be cancelled in the following circumstances: 1. You may cancel this policy for any 
reason and at any time by writing to us at the Freepost address or contacting us on the customer services 
number shown on your policy schedule.
What if I move home?
You are responsible for informing HomeServe of a change of your address so that cover can be transferred to 
your new property. Please phone us on the customer services number as shown on your policy schedule or write 
to HomeServe at the Freepost address, to advise us of your new address. We will check with you whether your 
cover is appropriate for your new property before it is transferred. If it is not appropriate you may cancel your 
policy as set out under the heading How can my policy be cancelled? in this section.
So I think it was made clear that in the event Mr B wanted to cancel his policy, or if he was to 
move address, he would need to contact Homeserve. 
However, just because Mr B may not have contacted Homeserve, I dont think this alone is 
enough for me to determine it reasonable for Homeserve to retain Mr Bs premiums. And Id 
still want to be satisfied that Mr B had been paying for a policy that he couldve used, and 
that he didnt have equivalent cover in place with another provider. 
We asked Homeserve whether Mr B couldve used the cover at his new address, and in 
response to this, they have said that as Mr B was able to transfer his cover to another 
property, any claims that had arisen at that new property at the time wouldve been 
considered. They have also confirmed that he could retrospectively submit a claim for any 
events that have occurred since his move, subject to him providing invoices or receipts, and 
that this would be considered in line with the policy terms. 
Looking at whether Mr B had any equivalent cover in place, Mr B sent Homeserve a copy of 
his Home Insurance policy. But Homeserve said this was not a home emergency policy and 
couldnt be considered equivalent cover. Having looked at the product information for this 
policy, Im satisfied also that it is not a home emergency policy, and the only emergency 
cover included, relates solely to his boiler. So Im satisfied Mr B didnt have an equivalent 
policy in place at his new address. 
In summary, I dont think Mr B notified Homeserve of his intention to cancel the policy or his 
change of address  and Im satisfied that Mr B wouldve been covered at his new address 
for any potential claims that may have arisen. Im also satisfied that Mr B didnt have any 
other insurance in place that wouldve provided equivalent cover. So therefore, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of Homeserve not to refund Mr Bs premiums. 
So, while I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to him, for the reasons set out 
above, Im not upholding Mr Bs his complaint. 
Mr B has told us that he has since had a leak at his new property that hes had to pay out 
for. So, based on what Homeserve have told us, I would encourage Mr B to forward any 
invoices for those works on to Homeserve for consideration. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint, and I dont require Homeserve 
Membership Limited to do anything further to resolve it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman