DRN-3869091
The complaint
Mr F complains that Plum Fintech Limited restricted access to his account and prevented 
him accessing his funds.
What happened
Mr F had an account with Plum Fintech.
On 19 August 2022 Plum Fintech contacted Mr F and asked him to provide documents to 
show the source of deposits into his account. They also advised Mr F that a failure to provide 
the documents may lead to a limitation of his account facilities. 
Mr F didnt respond and on 26 August 2022 Plum Fintech emailed Mr F to advise his 
account access had been limited and to repeat the request for documents. 
Mr F responded and queried the need for the documents  through a series of conversations 
with Plum Fintech he informed them that they already had access to the bank account used 
to deposit the funds and he could provide a copy of his driving licence to demonstrate proof 
of address. 
Mr F also asked for Plum Fintech to close his accounts and return all of his funds. 
Plum Fintech didnt agree the information Mr F had provided was sufficient  and reiterated 
they need a copy of the documents theyd requested.
On 27 September 2022 Mr F provided the documents Plum Fintech requested. And on 
2 October 2022 Mr Fs accounts were closed and the funds returned. 
Mr F complained to Plum Fintech about their actions. Although Plum Fintech concluded 
theyd acted fairly in asking for the documents they had, and restricting his account, they 
thought his overall customer journey could have been improved. And therefore offered Mr F 
£100 compensation. 
Mr F didnt accept Plum Fintechs offer so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs complaint. They thought Plum Fintech had acted 
fairly and followed the terms and conditions of the account when asking for the documents, 
and restricting Mr Fs access. Overall, they thought the £100 compensation offered was fair. 
Mr F didnt agree. In response he argued that Plum Fintech should have used the link he 
provided to his bank account, and didnt act fairly in transferring out the funds from his ISA. 
Which meant he lost his ISA allowance. 
As Mr F didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in less detail than both 
parties and in my own words. I dont intend any discourtesy by taking this approach. Ive 
instead focussed on what I think are the key issues here. And our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Id like to stress that Ive considered everything that Mr F and Plum Fintech have said before 
reaching my decision.
Plum Fintech are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Ive looked at what happened here and it appears that Plum Fintech asked Mr F to provide 
documents as part of a standard proof of funds check. I understand why Mr F found this 
inconvenient but Plum Fintech have a responsibility to keep their due diligence checks 
updated at all times. As part of their review, Plum Fintech asked Mr F to provide detailed 
information and documents about the money in his account and the source of the funds. 
They are entitled to do this under their regulatory obligations. Ive reviewed the requests 
Plum Fintech made to Mr F. And I think they were reasonable in the circumstances. For this 
reason Im unable to fairly conclude that Plum Fintech acted inappropriately. 
Having determined that Plum Fintechs actions in requesting documentation to show the 
source of Mr Fs funds were fair, Ive moved on to consider the actions they took after this. 
And the restriction of Mr Fs account. Plum Fintech first requested source of fund documents 
on 19 August 2022, and they said if Mr F didnt reply his account services might be limited. 
Mr F didnt reply, and Plum Fintech followed up their request on 26 August 2022 advising 
Mr F that access to his account had been restricted. And hed need to provide the requested 
documents to regain access. Mr F wasnt of the opinion he needed to provide these 
documents, and didnt submit anything new to Plum Fintech until 27 September 2022. 
Plum Fintech reviewed the documents and released his funds on 2 October 2022. I 
appreciate that Mr F was very frustrated by the restriction and lack of access to his funds. 
But, I think Plum Fintech were clear in the documents they requested, and the potential 
outcome if they werent provided. Its the case that Plum Fintech have the right to decide 
what information they require as part of a due diligence review and they have a responsibility 
to understand where the funds came from, and have a duty to protect their customers.
Mr Fs argued that Plum Fintech acted unfairly in returning the ISA funds directly to him from 
the account, and he lost out on his ISA allowance. Ive looked at the conversations between 
Mr F and Plum Fintech, and on 26 August 2022 Mr F asked Plum Fintech to close his 
account and return his funds. Mr F didnt mention he wanted the ISA funds transferred to a 
new provider, and I wouldnt expect Plum Fintech to ask Mr F about this. It follows I cant say 
they acted unfairly. 
Putting things right
Plum Fintech offered Mr F £100 for his poor service they provided. Its the case that Plum 
Fintech didnt answer some of Mr Fs questions in the online chat. And could have provided 
better customer service when engaging with him about the account restriction. Im satisfied 
that £100 is fair compensation for this. My final decision
My final decision is I direct Plum Fintech Limited to:
Pay Mr F £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman