DRN-4507964
The complaint
Mr A complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for transactions 
which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 5 June 2023, there were two online banking payments from Mr As Barclays account to a 
new payee. One was for £250 and the second, to the same payee, was for £750.
On 6 June, Mr A rang Barclays and said he hadnt made either of the two payments. 
Barclays asked him a number of questions, including whether hed let anyone else know his 
online login or security details, whether anyone else had access to Mr As device on which 
the payments had been made, and whether Mr A had clicked on any links or downloaded 
any software. Mr A said he hadnt done any of these things. He still had his card. Barclays 
cancelled and reissued Mr As card and his online banking passcode, and investigated.
Barclays refused to refund Mr A. Mr A complained, but Barclays didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He said that he couldnt see how Mr As 
security details had been compromised. Mr A still had his card and said he hadnt passed 
the details to anyone else. The investigator had asked Mr A if he know how any third party 
could have accessed the details, but Mr A didnt.
The investigator explained that the technical evidence from Barclays mobile banking 
payments audit showed that the disputed transactions had been made from Mr As 
registered mobile, and that the IP address (a unique computer identifier) was one Mr A had 
used before. Mr As mobile banking app had been logged in that day using Touch ID, in 
other words Mr As biometrics. So the investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed been a victim of crime. He said he had no idea how the 
person carrying out the transactions had obtained his passcode, fingerprint / facial ID to get 
into his banking. He said he hadnt put his password on any digital device, or written it down 
anywhere. Nor had he clicked on any links or websites, or shared any of his banking details. 
Mr A said he believed it could be a scam, and he didnt know who the person was and hadnt 
communicated with them before.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive 
considered whether its more likely than not that Mr A, or someone else, authorised the 
payments.
The technical computer records provide a lot of information, which Ive studied closely. This 
includes:
- The device used, and linked phone number, were registered to Mr As account 
profile. They were used for payments which Mr A didnt dispute, both before and after 
the disputed payments;
- The login for the disputed transactions was done through biometrics (fingerprint or 
face ID). This could only be done by someone with a registered fingerprint or face. Mr 
A said he still had his device and was the only person with access; 
- Ive looked at the IP addresses used to make the two payments. Mr A had made 
multiple genuine logins and payments from the addresses used for the disputed 
transactions;
- There was another payment, which Mr A didnt dispute, between the two payments. If 
someone else had Mr As device and details, this seems unlikely; 
- Mr A still had his card, and said no-one else could have accessed it. But the person 
setting up this new payee would have had to have lots of information from that card. 
That would include the 16 digit card number, the expiry date, and the security code 
on the back. 
This technical evidence means that I think its most likely that Mr A carried out the disputed 
transactions himself. His evidence was that no-one else could have accessed his details. I 
cant see how any third party could have obtained these and carried out the transactions.
Also, if any third party fraudster had carried out the transactions, its likely that the timings 
would have been different.  The first, £250, payment took place just after 3pm. The payment 
which Mr A didnt dispute took place about an hour later. It was then about another four 
hours before the £750 disputed transaction. This isnt the pattern for a typical fraudster. They 
normally maximise their gain quickly, with repeated transactions until theres no money left, 
or the payments are blocked. But here, there was a significant time gap between the 
disputed transactions. And there was a significant amount of money left in Mr As account 
after both disputed transactions. So the circumstances arent typical of a fraudster.
For all these reasons, I find that its more likely than not that Mr A authorised the disputed 
transactions himself. So Barclays doesnt have to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman