DRN-2860660
The complaint
Miss C complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her motor
insurance policy.
  
What happened
In November 2014, Miss C was a young driver. For the year from 10 November 2014, she
insured her car with MCE. Later in November 2014, Miss C and a third party were involved 
in a road accident. 
The third party made a claim against Miss C. The third party issued court proceedings and 
obtained a County Court Judgment (CCJ) dated 3 October 2018 against Miss C for about 
£4,800.00. Neither MCE nor Miss C paid the CCJ in 2018. So the court registered it as an 
unsatisfied CCJ.
In early 2020, Miss C was expecting a child. The third party instructed a High Court
enforcement officer to enforce payment of the CCJ against Miss C. Miss C complained to
MCE that it was responsible for the unpaid CCJ and its effect on her ability to get credit.
MCE wrote a final response dated 14 May 2020. It said it had asked for the CCJ to be
removed from credit reference agency files. It said it would ask the third party about setting
aside the CCJ. MCE said it would pay Miss C £500.00.
Miss C brought her complaint to us in June 2020, saying that the CCJ had only recently
been settled. She said she had suffered stress and anxiety and her child was born early in
July.
By 22 July 2020, MCE had paid Miss C the £500.00 and further sums of £100.00 and £25.00
- £625.00 in total.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that an error
or errors within MCE caused the CCJ. He said this had caused Miss C increased cost of
credit and would have ongoing impact for some time to come.
The investigator said he had no reason to believe that, in the absence of the CCJ, Miss Cs
credit rating would not be categorized as good at least  enabling her to get hire purchase
on a car at a rate of 4-8%. He said that in June 2020, Miss C had taken out a five-year HP
agreement on a car at a rate of about 19% - with a total charge for credit of £4,482.00. He
said that MCE should pay about 50% of this (£2,240.00) to Miss C to compensate her for
this direct financial cost which resulted from the CCJ adversely affecting her credit rating.
He recommended that MCE should:
1. pay Miss C £2,240.00 in financial compensation, as this is the extra sum she is 
being asked to pay on her hire purchase agreement due to the errors made by 
MCE; and
2. pay Miss C  in addition to the £625.00 already paid  an additional £260.00 due 
to the increased stress and anxiety she had been under in 2020 due to this issue; 
and
3. follow up in writing to Miss C regarding MCEs request to the third party to have 
the CCJ set aside. This should be followed up with the third party to its 
conclusion, and Miss C kept informed of progress until then.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to MCE on 28 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
Miss C was able to obtain HP credit of about £8,000.00 in June 2020. She says this 
was after she showed the lender all the emails. So the lender knew MCE had 
apologised for the CCJ against her.
I couldnt say that  but for the CCJ  Miss C wouldve paid a lower rate of interest. I 
didnt consider that the CCJ caused Miss C any identifiable financial loss. And I 
wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct MCE to pay Miss C 
compensation for financial loss.
Any setting-aside of the CCJ would require consent of the third party and/or the 
court. I found such consent unlikely after the belated payment of the CCJ. So I didnt 
find it fair and reasonable to direct MCE to take any more steps towards that.
Subject to any further information from Miss C or from MCE, my provisional decision was 
that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct MCE Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Miss C  in addition to the £625.00 already paid  an additional £125.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
In response to the provisional decision, MCE said that it would await further correspondence.
Miss C disagreed with the provisional decision in part. She says, in summary, that:
It is reasonable and fair to expect compensation for financial loss. The only reason 
she was able to obtain the HP was that she went through a friend that she knew had 
a car garage and asked him to speak directly to the underwriters prior to her 
application.
She thinks its very unreasonable to expect her to obtain all credit refusals and to 
expect her to ask for these in writing. She was unaware of the CCJ until she had tried 
to start obtaining credit/move home. Its not as though anyone would automatically 
sign up to a credit reference agency just on the chance that someone might register 
a CCJ against their name incorrectly. Shes not asking MCE to take any more steps 
in regard to this. However she is asking them to take into account the continued 
stress she had to go through and the amount of phone calls/emails she had to make 
to chase this. 
She has never had such an appalling service with any other company ever. At the 
time of registering this complaint with us, someone had tried to hack her internet 
banking so she had to report it and all of her accounts got frozen which is why she wasnt able to obtain any screenshots for these dates.
She thinks its very unreasonable to also expect her to keep a record of telephone 
calls to the County Court Claims Centre, MCE and the solicitors. 
She had called MCE multiple times, in the double if not treble figures. She had also 
spoken with the County Court Claims Centre via telephone to clarify the details of the 
solicitors on multiple occasions as well as calling the solicitors continuously. The 
reason she never had any luck with any of this was clearly because the solicitors 
were very incompetent and never acted on her behalf and they then changed their 
brand and didnt update their contact information. The only time she knew of the 
change was when the very helpful gentleman from MCE finally got to the bottom of 
this mess when she raised the initial complaint. If she is expected to keep a log of 
telephone calls, then she would suggest that we ask MCE to provide a list of their call 
list on how many times she called their company.
She has also attached additional correspondence to clarify that she had to prove that 
the CCJ was being dealt with and removed from her file. This has had a detrimental 
impact to not only her mental health, but the stability in her home that she has tried to 
provide for her daughter. She thinks its very unreasonable to expect her to provide 
evidence that the company has failed to do their jobs correctly. She is now suffering 
with the expectation to prove everything she has been through even though she has 
clearly stated to us that this has been a very stressful time with her.
During this timeframe, she and her partner were going through medical treatment 
and she feels the company have been taking no responsibility. She has been 
expected to chase it continuously, making call after call/email after email to make 
sure the CCJ had finally been dealt with. She doesnt understand why when she 
made a complaint, this process wasnt followed by the company. It is quite clear from 
the difficulties that she has had, the company were in no rush to take responsibility 
for this and continued to make this difficult hoping that she would just stop chasing 
this so they wouldnt have had to pay the CCJ off and get it removed from her credit 
file. It is continued financial loss due to implication of the CCJ and the impact this has 
had on her credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2014 Miss C was a young driver and I find it likely that her car insurance was expensive.
So I find it likely that she had obtained credit to pay the premium by instalments.
Miss C has shown us evidence that in early 2016 she had a pay-day loan and made
repayments on time.
She has shown us evidence that in 2017 she had a loan of about £2,400.00 from a provider
of credit for motor insurance premiums  and she was making repayments on time.
I dont think anyone expects Miss C to produce every piece of evidence about her credit 
history. But the evidence she has provided isnt enough to show a clear picture. And it 
includes a screenshot of a below-average credit score in March 2018.MCE insured Miss C against liability to a third party. I havent seen any suggestion that there
was any reason why MCE didnt have to step in on Miss Cs behalf to deal with the third
partys claim against her after the 2014 accident.
In its final response, MCE told Miss C the following:
You received correspondence relating to a CCJ filed against you. I apologise that
you have received this correspondence from the third-party representatives, any
proceedings or judgments should have been entered against your insurer not you.
I dont agree with the second sentence of that. I consider that  unless MCE settled the third
partys claim  the third party would issue court proceedings naming Miss C as defendant.
But MCE might instruct solicitors to accept service of court proceedings on behalf of Miss C.
Miss C has identified some solicitors. She has referred to some emails, but she has not sent
us enough evidence of what the solicitors failed to do. Nevertheless, I find it likely that MCE 
and its solicitors failed to keep track of the third partys claim. Otherwise, MCE wouldve 
either challenged or paid the CCJ in 2018.
Ive seen an email from Miss C to the court in November 2018 querying the CCJ. So she 
knew about the CCJ at that time. I wouldve expected her to do more if she had previously 
had a good credit rating.
Miss C has provided evidence of credit searches. And I have no reason to doubt her
statement that telephone, media and credit companies all turned her down. But I consider
that Miss C was slow to attribute these refusals to the CCJ.
I havent seen evidence of much activity to deal with the CCJ until after the third party
instructed the enforcement officer in about February 2020.
Ive found evidence that Miss C had a below-average credit score in March 2018. And I 
wouldve expected her to do more if she had previously had a good credit rating. So Im not 
persuaded that Miss C had a good credit rating until the CCJ in 2018.
In her complaint form on about 10 June 2020, Miss C said the following:
I am not able to gain any sort of credit, even to the point of a bad credit card
But Miss C was able to obtain HP credit of about £8,000.00 in June 2020. She says this was
after she showed the lender all the emails. So the lender knew MCE had apologised for the
CCJ against her.
I cant say that  but for the CCJ  Miss C wouldve paid a lower rate of interest. I dont
consider that the CCJ caused Miss C any identifiable financial loss. And I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct MCE to pay Miss C compensation for financial loss.
Any setting-aside of the CCJ would require consent of the third party and/or the court. I find
such consent unlikely after the belated payment of the CCJ. So I dont find it fair and
reasonable to direct MCE to take any more steps towards that.
However, Ive found that MCE (including solicitors for whose actions I hold MCE responsible)
failed to keep track of the third partys claim. And I accept that this caused Miss C distress
and inconvenience for nearly two years. This included being chased by a high court
enforcement officer during her pregnancy.Putting things right
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable compensation for this level of distress and
inconvenience. Weighing it up, I conclude that a total of £750.00 is appropriate. So I will 
direct MCE to pay Miss C  in addition to the £625.00 already paid  an additional
£125.00 for distress and inconvenience.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct MCE Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss C  in addition to the £625.00 already 
paid  an additional £125.00 for distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman