DRN-2636282
The complaint
Ms L and Mrs T complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc wrongly settled a third
partys claim against Ms Ls motor insurance policy on which Mrs T was the named driver.
What happened
Mrs T was involved in an accident which she didnt think was her fault. She complained 
when RSA settled the third partys claim under the policy. She felt that RSA hadnt listened
to her side of the story, hadnt considered the evidence properly, and hadnt been
sympathetic. She was unhappy about having to pay the policy excess, having a fault claim
against her, and about the impact this would have on her future insurance premiums.
RSA accepted that when they first decided about liability, they hadnt reviewed the evidence
as they should have. So they paid compensation of £250 to Ms L for that. They then 
reinvestigated liability. After that, they still settled the third-party claim and treated it as a fault
claim against the policy. They thought that they had then acted reasonably on the evidence
they had.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that RSAs
decision on liability was reasonable overall but that their approach had caused additional
frustration. So he recommended that RSA pay an additional £250 in compensation and
refund 25% of the policy excess paid. Mrs T didnt agree as she still felt that the third party
was to blame for the accident. RSA didnt agree either and so I was asked to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 February 2021 saying that I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained to Ms L and Mrs T, we dont decide who is at fault for causing
an accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is to
investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys
terms and conditions when they made their decision about liability.
I saw that Ms Ls policy says on page 22 Section 6 condition I, that RSA have the right to
defend or settle any claim on their policyholders behalf. This is a common term in insurance
policies and so RSA can do this whether Ms L and Mrs T agree with it or not. Insurers are
entitled to make a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable for them to defend a
claim in court or better for them to settle it.
The accident happened on a roundabout and Mrs T and the third party each said that the
other was to blame. Mrs T said that she was in the correct lane and the third party was
driving too fast and was arrested at the scene for drug driving and later convicted. She felt
that RSA had ignored this. She also said that the third party was aggressive with her at the
accident scene and that he had spoken to the independent witnesses there. She felt that he
had influenced them to support his account of events. She was unhappy when she
discovered that RSA had decided that she was liable and decided to settle the third partys
claim.
She complained to RSA. She showed them evidence that the third party had been convicted
for drug driving. RSA accepted that they had decided about liability too quickly and without
having obtained more evidence. They said they would do that and reinvestigate liability. In
the meantime they offered £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience, and paid that
to Ms L. In the course of the matter Mrs T explained that she was a carer for Ms Ls relative 
and so was a named driver on Ms Ls policy. She was unhappy that RSA had paid the £250
compensation to Ms L and not to her, although she, Mrs T, was the person who had been in
the accident and who had brought the complaint. However we cant comment on this as Ms
L is the policyholder and RSA are obliged to pay her. Anything else is a personal 
arrangement between Ms L and Mrs T.
And pending the outcome of the reinvestigation, RSA allowed the no claims discount (NCD)
and didnt record it as a fault claim. They said that they would also give the call handler
feedback. RSA did say that there was no guarantee they would change their minds on
liability. Ms L and Mrs T were happy with this. But after RSA had done a full
reinvestigation, they again decided to settle the third-party claim. So Ms L and Mrs T
remained dissatisfied.
I saw from RSAs file that in their reinvestigation they did obtain a police report. They also
instructed investigators to take statements from Mrs T and from an independent witness and
provide a full report. So I think that they did listen to Mrs Ts view and they did gather all the
necessary evidence. The investigating agents also took photographs of the scene of the
accident, looked at photographs of the aftermath of the accident, analysed the statements
and looked at the Highway Code and news articles about the accident. I think they did a
thorough report and investigation. The witness said that Mrs T was to blame and RSA found 
no suggestion that the witness knew the third party or was influenced by him. But because 
the third party was convicted for drug driving RSAs investigators recommended that RSA 
partially deny liability, and suggest a 50/50 settlement at first, moving to 75/25 and then, if 
the third-party insurer didnt accept those, accept full liability.
RSA decided not to follow their investigators recommendations. They said it was not cost
effective to pursue partial liability for contributory negligence, so they accepted liability in full.
Our investigator accepted that RSA had discretion under the policy to settle the case as they
wished, and they were not obliged to accept the investigators recommendation. But he
thought that RSA should not have just accepted liability, as that had caused Ms L and Mrs T
some frustration and inconvenience and so RSA should pay additional compensation of
£250 and refund 25% of the excess that had been paid.
RSA disagreed. They reiterated that they did have discretion to settle and they had decided
that it would be uneconomic to pursue the third party to settle on a partial liability basis. It
would take longer, involve higher costs, and it would create false expectations on the part of
Ms L and Mrs T. They also explained that it didnt make any difference whether they settled
the claim on full liability or 50/50 or other liability  either would still count as a fault claim.
And the excess was payable on any claim under the policy, regardless of who was at fault
So it wouldnt have changed the outcome.
I saw that the accident was a serious one and that Mrs T found it traumatic. She was also 
upset because RSA didnt believe her. But I must look at whether RSA acted fairlyunder the policy. Although I knew it wouldnt be what Ms L and Mrs T wished to hear, I 
thought that RSA did properly reviewed the evidence the second time, taking full account of 
Mrs Ts version of events. And so I didnt think that it was unreasonable for them to decide 
not to try to pursue the third party for contributory negligence. 
So I thought that they acted fairly and reasonably in settling the case as they did. And so I 
didnt think that it would be fair to award what the investigator recommended, the additional 
£250 compensation and 25% excess refund.
And as RSA explained, they settled the case on a without prejudice basis, which means
that it remains open to Ms L and Mrs T to take the third party to court if they wish. But as
RSA havent done anything wrong, I didnt ask them to do any more.
None of the parties have commented on my provisional decision and so I dont see any 
reason to change my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
