DRN-3346917
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way St Andrews Insurance Plc (SAI) handled their claim 
following an escape of water which damaged much of the lower floor of their home. 
The buildings and contents insurance was underwritten by SAI and branded under a 
different company name. Any reference to SAIs actions includes those of its agents. The 
policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr J throughout my decision.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the 
detail again here. Instead Ill provide a summary to give some context.
When Mr J first made his claim, SAI appointed a loss adjuster (LA) and then declined the 
claim. After he complained and provided further evidence, SAI acknowledged its mistake 
and paid Mr J £125 compensation by way of apology. I wont be addressing this issue further 
in my consideration of the complaint.
SAI accepted Mr Js claim and explained to him that it wouldnt be completing the 
reinstatement work. In line with SAIs instructions, Mr J obtained a quote for the repairs, 
coming in at over £50,000 and consistent with the earlier LA report.  However, SAI 
challenged the accuracy of the quote and, from there, disagreement between the two parties 
followed. SAI thought the work could be done for £20,000 plus VAT (originally stated as 
£10,000 in error), whereas Mr J thought his quote was the minimum needed, given that 
additional, unseen work might be required.
Because of the delay and inconvenience Mr J and his family experienced while he disputed 
the repair cost with SAI, he went ahead with the repairs and paid for the work himself. SAI 
sent Mr J a cheque for £20,000 and asked for evidence of any additional costs he thought it 
should pay, along with completion invoices so it could pay him the correct amount of VAT. 
Although Mr J sent some quotes, invoices and photos to SAI, it didnt think hed provided 
enough to show that the work was all related to the water damage, and there was no 
evidence of VAT payments.
While SAI and Mr J couldnt reach agreement about the cost of repairs, SAI did acknowledge 
its service shortfalls. It confirmed thered been some avoidable delays, and staff changes 
meant his claim had become confused. In recognition of the shortfalls, SAI offered Mr J £300 
by way of apology. However, he remained unhappy that SAI hadnt fully settled his claim.
Our investigator didnt think SAI had treated Mr J fairly. She didnt think the compensation 
SAI offered was enough in the circumstances of his claim which had been ongoing for over 
two years. While she didnt think SAI was completely responsible for the delays, our 
investigator proposed that SAI pay Mr J £500 by way of apology.
Our investigator also thought SAI hadnt treated Mr J fairly when it offered him significantly 
less as a cash settlement than its LAs earlier estimate and the quote he provided. Thats 
because the parties hadnt reached an agreement about what was covered or whether the 
quotes were an accurate reflection of the cost to Mr J. Our investigator proposed that SAI 
increase its settlement offer to more accurately reflect Mr Js completion costs of repairs to 
the damage caused by the escape of water.
SAI accepted the outcome in principle, but it wanted to see further evidence of the work 
done to ensure the repairs were all necessary.
Mr J also accepted the outcome in principle, although he later asked for further consideration 
by an ombudsman, explaining that he was seeking the maximum compensation available 
under our service.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Js complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Js complaint. However, I realise he may be 
disappointed that my decision doesnt go further, so Ill explain my reasons now.
Firstly, I think its important to set out my remit. My role is to decide whether SAI treated Mr J 
fairly when it responded to his claim for an escape of water. To do that, Ive looked at the 
documents each party provided, listened to the phone calls, and taken into consideration the 
position at the point Mr J raised his complaint. What I wont be doing is deciding the amount 
that SAI must pay Mr J towards the cost of the work hes done. Thats because Im not an 
expert in building costs - nor am I expected to be - so I must rely on the evidence available 
to determine a fair and reasonable outcome.
Cash settlement
The overriding issue is that Mr J doesnt think SAIs payment of £20,000 is enough to cover 
the work hes done to repair the full insured event. SAI agrees, but in the absence of any 
evidence to demonstrate the actual costs it hasnt agreed a settlement figure with Mr J.
The policy allows SAI to offer a cash settlement rather than completing the repairs itself. But 
the payment must be enough to cover the cost to Mr J to put his home back in the position it 
was in before the insured event. The terms and conditions of the policy arent disputed.
The only issue I can see here is that SAI and Mr J cant agree how much of the work was 
necessary to meet the policy terms and how much of it might constitute betterment. To 
determine this, SAI asked Mr J to provide detailed quotes showing the work to be done and 
this was explained in its May 2019 letter to him:
When contacting a contractor, please explain that the contract of work is between you 
and the contractor and that their estimate must provide a breakdown of work and costs in 
each room. This will allow for an easier validation process in terms of checking costs.
Ive looked at the quotes Mr J provided. One was for £42,775, which SAI thought was 
excessive, and the second was for £19,700. The second of the quotes was less detailed 
than the first. Mr J went on to use the second builder and provided a copy of the paid 
invoice. That invoice included an additional £4,004 for work which became apparent after the 
kitchen and utility had been removed. The invoice totalled £23,704.
From what I can see, this is the only paid invoice Mr J has presented to SAI for the work 
done. While hes provided his own breakdown of additional costs bringing the total to over 
£50,000, Mr J hasnt provided any evidence of that spend. Given that SAI said it would need a detailed quote, and so far Mr J has provided evidence of 
payment in line with the quote from the builder he used, I think its reasonable that he could 
expect SAI to settle that invoice. So, at this point, it seems SAI has underpaid him £3,704 
and my provisional decision is that it should make a further cash payment to that value.
I realise Mr J is still looking for upwards of £50,000. My provisional decision doesnt mean 
that SAI shouldnt pay any more than Ive described here. Its simply that it should only pay 
what Mr J can evidence. I dont think its unreasonable for SAI to expect Mr J to produce 
invoices for spending £30,000 over and above the £20,000 he has already received. To 
resolve this part of the complaint, Mr J would need to obtain from his builder copy invoices 
for any additional work completed. Or, if Mr J bought materials himself, provide copy receipts 
to allow SAI to assess his claim further. SAI has already offered to do this, so I wont be 
making a requirement of it here.
Mr J hasnt provided any of this evidence when asked by our service, so I think its 
reasonable to propose an alternative. SAI has agreed that the most practical way forward is 
to arrange for one of its contractors to visit Mr Js home to complete a costing exercise 
based on its and Mr Js builders scope of work. I think thats fair in the circumstances and 
will form part of my provisional decision.
Fraud accusation
Ill comment briefly on Mr Js view that SAI accused him of fraud. My understanding is that 
some of the work in his original quote included work which he knew wasn't covered under 
the claim, but nor did he expect SAI to pay for that part. It seems to me that this issue of 
fraud arose out of a simple misunderstanding about what Mr J was claiming for because SAI 
didnt take the matter further. Ive considered this when deciding whether compensation is 
warranted.
GDPR
Mr J asked for a copy of the LA reports. SAI provided some of the reports, but it asked for 
additional identification before it would provide one of them. I can understand why that would 
seem strange to Mr J and I cant see any obvious reason for the difference in process. 
Nevertheless, SAI said it would provide the report, if it hasnt already, and Ive taken this 
customer service shortfall into consideration when deciding whether compensation is 
warranted. 
Ive noted Mr Js allegation that SAI claimed to be the insurer to minimise any potential 
claims under GDPR. For clarity, the policy documents confirm that SAI is the underwriter  
the insurer - of the branded policy. When this service considers complaints about how a 
claim is handled, we must record it as a claim against the underwriter.
VAT
Mr J is unhappy that SAI didnt include VAT in its cash settlement payment. SAI confirmed 
that it would need a completion invoice showing the VAT registration number, but Mr J says 
it didnt specify that hed need to use a VAT registered builder.
I agree that SAI didnt specify that, but thats because it isnt a requirement to use a VAT 
registered builder. But SAI cant be expected to include a VAT payment in its cash 
settlement if Mr J hasnt actually paid VAT. Mr J would be profiting from that. If he paid VAT 
on any of the work done, hed need to provide SAI with evidence, in which case it would 
reimburse him. I wont be asking SAI to do anything further here.
Compensation
Mr J asked for the maximum compensation our service can award. Ive considered the 
overall progress of his claim and its clear that there have been times when the claim didnt move forward as it shouldve done. SAI has acknowledged this and offered Mr J £300 for the 
service shortfalls. The nature of the damage meant that a large area of Mr Js ground floor 
needed to be uplifted and replaced, along with the kitchen and other units. This would 
undoubtedly have caused Mr J and his family distress and inconvenience. But I must 
separate that from what I consider to be additional distress and inconvenience caused by 
SAIs avoidable delays or service shortfalls. Our investigator proposed total compensation of 
£500 and, in the circumstances, I think thats reasonable. Thats because, while SAI caused 
some delays, I think progress has also been hindered by the lack of evidence to support Mr 
Js claim for an increased cash settlement. I havent seen anything about Mr Js overall claim 
that would warrant a significantly higher payment, and Im satisfied that compensation of 
£500 is fair and reasonable.  
In summary, SAI accepted Mr Js claim and agreed to cash settle. As it stands, SAI has paid 
Mr J £20,000 but it should pay more if he can evidence his costs or if his builder and its 
contractor agree the scope of work. In addition to this, SAI should pay compensation of £500 
for the service shortfalls and a further £3,704 to settle Mr Js costs as evidenced by his 
invoice.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require St Andrews 
Insurance Plc to:
appoint a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs Js home to work out a fair schedule of work 
based on Mr Js and its contractors estimate;
pay Mr and Mrs J £500 compensation by way of apology for the shortfalls in service 
which caused avoidable delays and inconvenience, and
pay Mr and Mrs J £3,704 to fully settle the invoice they provided.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
SAI accepted my provisional decision.
Mr J clarified some points in the content of my provisional decision; provided evidence of 
some of the costs he incurred, and said hed accept only an independent contractor to 
assess the work done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain further.
Mr J made several comments about my provisional decision, either to clarify points or to 
express dissatisfaction with the content. I wont respond to each point individually: instead Ill 
focus on the main points he raised and any which I think warrant clarification.
The background to Mr Js complaint is a summary of what happened. I understand there are 
some points which he didnt think were completely accurate but as they dont affect the 
outcome of the complaint I wont comment further.
Mr J said hed happily accept a visit from an independent contractor to assess the costs he 
incurred when repairing his kitchen, but he wont have SAIs contractor back in his home. 
SAI hasnt agreed to his request. I understand why Mr J would want someone independent, but as his contractor did the work, 
I think its reasonable that SAI wants to clarify what was done before it considers any more 
payments towards the additional £30,000 Mr J spent. I see no reason to change my 
requirement in respect of this point. 
Ive noted Mr Js comment that he doesnt recall providing a copy of a paid invoice to SAI, 
and that it paid him £20,000 before hed had the work done. While the clarification is helpful, 
it doesnt change the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr J clarified his view of what happened regarding the issue of fraud. I can understand Mr J 
is upset about any hint of a fraud allegation, and I see no reason to doubt his explanation of 
what happened. However, SAI accepted his claim and theres no indication that it 
progressed a fraud investigation. I considered this point when deciding whether 
compensation is warranted and as Im requiring SAI to make a payment, I dont think theres 
anything further to address here.
Mr J disagreed with my comments about SAIs release of the report and he believes it 
breached GDPR. It refused to release one report without additional identification from Mr J. 
As SAI is responsible for access to the data it holds, I cant reasonably say it did something 
wrong by taking precautions. Its not within my remit to decide whether it breached GDPR, 
so I cant reasonably say its done anything wrong. I understand Mr J is aware how to raise a 
complaint about possible GDPR breach should he wish to.
Finally, Mr J provided some receipts for the work done so that SAI could pay his claim. 
However, as SAI will be assessing the costs claimed for, hed need to send any evidence he 
has directly to SAI. It has already said it would settle evidenced costs, so our service doesnt 
need to see that evidence unless further issues of complaint arise.
Overall, Ive considered the additional comments Mr J made about the content of my 
provisional decision, but I dont think theres any new information which warrants a change in 
outcome. Therefore, my provisional decision becomes my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I uphold Mr Js complaint and St Andrews Insurance Plc must:
appoint a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs Js home to work out a fair schedule of work 
based on Mr Js and its contractors estimate;
pay Mr and Mrs J £500 compensation by way of apology for the shortfalls in service 
which caused avoidable delays and inconvenience, and
pay Mr and Mrs J £3,704 to fully settle the invoice they provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman