DRN-3539509
The complaint
Mr B and Miss R complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined their claim for an 
escape of water. 
What happened
Mr B and Miss R held a buildings insurance policy with Aviva. Where I refer to Mr B 
throughout, I mean both Mr B and Miss R.   
In July 2021 Mr B notified Aviva of a claim for escape of water after noticing a damp area at 
the back of his airing cupboard. There was also damage to the plaster in the bedroom. 
A plumber attended the property and told Mr B the leak was from the shower tray due to 
lifting sealant and a hairline crack in the tile. Mr B advised Aviva of this. 
Avivas surveyor called Mr B and over Whatsapp to examine the damage and concluded that 
the claim should be declined because of a lack of maintenance causing water damage 
gradually occurring over time. 
The plumber returned to the property in September to carry out removal and inspection 
work. He prepared a further letter following this to confirm that there was a crack in the tile, 
but that the main leak was caused by an incorrectly fitted trap on the shower base. 
Mr B advised Aviva that the repair work would start on 15 November 2021 to give them the 
opportunity to visit  but they didnt. The shower has since been replaced. Mr B has paid for 
a new shower, tray, tiling, plumbing, shower door and wall panel at a cost of £3189.
Mr B complained and Aviva issued a final response in November 2021 declining the claim.  
Mr B was unhappy with this response and brought he complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Bs complaint and thought Aviva had acted fairly.    
Mr B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Aviva have acted within the terms of the policy, and fairly and 
reasonably in their decision to decline the claim. 
Aviva declined the claim because the damage didnt occur from a one-off leak, but rather 
had occurred gradually over a period of time. 
The policy contains some general exclusions at page 9 where it says:
We wont pay for:
1. Gradually occurring damage
Wear and tear (natural and predictable damage which happened over time or 
due to normal use or ageing) this includes, but is not limited to, gradual 
weathering, the effect of light; deterioration or depreciation
Any other gradually occurring damage 
In addition, the policy says:
Keeping your property in good condition:
One important policy condition is that you keep all the property youre insuring in good 
condition. Your policy doesnt cover loss or damage caused by wear and tear or a lack of 
maintenance, In particular you need to maintain your home, there are some things you can 
do, for example:
On the inside
Check and replace sealant and grout around baths and showers regularly  these need
to be maintained to prevent leakage
So, Ive then looked at the evidence provided by Aviva, Mr Bs plumber and Mr B about the 
source of the leak. Its not for me to determine whether the leak was caused by the shower 
trap or the sealant, but to look at whether Avivas have fairly applied these terms and 
whether their decision is reasonable based on the evidence it had available. 
Avivas surveyor didnt visit the property, but he examined the shower and the damage via a 
Whatsapp call with Mr B and also took account of the plumbers initial assessment. His 
visual inspection led him to agree with the plumbers initial view that the leak was likely to be 
the result of failing sealant at the perimeter of the shower tray and a hairline crack to one of 
the tiles  and that as this was a wear and tear issue, leading to a gradual leak, it fell outside 
the policy.  
Subsequently after further examination, the plumber revised his view and attributed the leak 
to a poorly installed shower waste trap, although he accepted that there was still a hairline 
crack in the tiles.   
Avivas senior surveyor reviewed this additional evidence but didnt agree, and stood by his 
view that the damage was due to a poorly fitted shower enclosure, missing seals and 
damaged tiles. 
The surveyor has said that in his view, based on his assessment of the height of the water 
damage to the plaster, and the evidence of cracked tiles this sort of water damage is more 
consistent with a gradual leak over a period of time than a one-off sudden escape of water, 
and so it is more likely that this was as a result of the defective sealant and the cracks in the 
tiles than being attributable to a faulty shower waste trap. 
Ive thought about this and considered the report and the still photographs which have been 
provided by Aviva as part of their report  the still shots being from the Whatsapp call. 
The still shots show water damage to the bedroom wall which is above the wooden railing 
around half-way up the wall, and they also show a lack of sealant at the edge of the shower 
tray. I consider that the photographic evidence supports the surveyors view, and so I agree 
that it is reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the damage is excluded from the policy as 
gradually occurring damage, and apply the policy exclusion. 
I appreciate that Mr B says that he was not aware of the leak, and would not have been until 
he noticed the damp, but unfortunately this doesnt prevent it from being a gradually 
occurring damage under the policy.  
My final decision
My decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited do not need to do anything further.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman