DRN-3697053
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by Oodle Financial Services Limited trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle).
What happened
In August 2021 Mr C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle. 
Mr C says the car made a scratching sound when changing gears early on in the agreement. 
It then went into limp mode in March 2022, and Mr C arranged for it to be towed to a 
manufacturer garage. 
The garage completed a diagnostic report, which confirmed there was a fault with the 
gearbox. Mr C says he received a quote of around £9,000 for repairs, and so he contacted 
Oodle and complained about the quality of the car.  
Oodle asked Mr C to carry out a further inspection of the vehicle, and a second report was 
prepared in April 2022. That report concluded that there was a fault with the gearbox, 
caused by general age-related wear and tear. It said the wear to the gearbox was in an 
advanced stage when Mr C acquired the car and had now reached the point where repairs 
were required. The report said overhaul of a gearbox on a vehicle of this age and mileage 
would be routine maintenance. 
Oodle sent Mr C their final response to his complaint in May 2022. They said the report 
confirmed the faut was age-related wear and tear. They said the issues werent serious 
enough to render the car of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, so they didnt uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. Oodle paid Mr C £150 for the inspection report and refunded a monthly 
payment of £444.86 to assist with any further diagnostics or repairs required. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
had to pay for transport to work and then purchase a new vehicle because he was supplied 
with a faulty one. Mr C said hed like the car repaired. 
Our investigator gave her view that it was reasonable for a car of this age and mileage to 
have suffered some notable wear and tear prior to Mr C acquiring it. She was satisfied that 
the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C, and she didnt ask 
Oodle to do anything more. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the fault was there when he purchased the car, and so it wasnt fit 
for purpose. Mr C said the fault was a significant issue established before the car was 
supplied to him and it was unroadworthy before sale. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that Oodle arent responsible for everything that might happen to Mr Cs 
car whilst its under the hire purchase agreement. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, 
they are responsible for the goods being of satisfactory quality. This means that at the time 
the goods are supplied, they need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory. 
So, although Mr C feels that Oodle should meet the cost of repairs, I must consider whether 
they are responsible for the fault. I must decide whether the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the time that it was supplied. 
What a reasonable person would consider satisfactory will take account of any description of 
the goods, the price, and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, 
will include things like the age and mileage of the car. 
When Mr C acquired the car, it was around seven and a half years old and had travelled 
around 81,000 miles. At the time of the fault in March 2022, it was eight years old and had 
travelled around 89,000 miles. 
When a person acquires a used car like Mr Cs its reasonable to say that the expectation of 
quality is lower than that of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for 
the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The 
chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is higher. 
Mr C has had an engineer inspection and report completed on his car. That report confirms 
that a fault with the gearbox is present. It concludes that the cause is age-related general 
wear and tear which was in an advanced stage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The 
engineer comments that an overhaul of the transmission would be classed as routine 
maintenance on a vehicle of this mileage. 
Im persuaded by this report that the current fault with Mr Cs car is not unusual for a vehicle 
of this age and mileage, and that the parts have worn as a result of age and use, rather than 
there being a manufacturing defect. 
Mr C says that the car wasnt fit for purpose when it was supplied, as the wear was in an 
advanced stage at that time. I can see that Mr Cs car passed an MOT shortly before it was 
supplied to him. The engineer that inspected the car has also concluded that it currently 
meets minimum MOT standards and would have done so at the time it was supplied. They 
say there is no suggestion the vehicle wasnt driveable when it was supplied. I havent seen 
anything that persuades me that Mr Cs car was unroadworthy when it was supplied. 
Satisfactory quality also includes an element of durability. That is, the components of the car 
can be expected to function without any significant issue or problem for a reasonable period 
of time. Mr C has been able to use the vehicle for around seven months, and travel 
approximately 8,000 miles before it became apparent that imminent repairs were needed. I 
think this would be considered a reasonable period of time for a car which was seven and a 
half years old (and had travelled around 81,000 miles) when it was supplied. I think, that at seven and a half years old, and having covered 81,000 miles, Mr Cs car was 
around the age when a reasonable person might expect there to have been some advanced 
wear on the vehicle when it was supplied, and might start to expect that some relatively 
serious repairs may be needed. As a result, I find there was no durability issue with the car 
when it was supplied. 
Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning an older and higher mileage 
second-hand car like this one. I appreciate that having a car that requires extensive and 
expensive repairs might be a stressful experience for Mr C. That doesnt mean that Oodle 
are responsible for the cost of repairs. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Mr Cs car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Mr C has 
experienced a fault with his car, Oodle are not responsible for the cost repairing the fault.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman