DRN-3588316
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as B, complains about the decision of Covea Insurance plc 
to limit the claim period relating to its business interruption insurance claim, made as a result 
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to the parties, so the following is 
intended merely as a summary. B operates as a nursery and held an industry specific 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by Covea. In March 2020, B had to close as a 
result of the government-imposed restrictions introduced as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
I will say at this point that B may have been able to remain open to provide care for the 
children of keyworkers and similar. But this particular point is not relevant to the current 
dispute. So, for the purposes of this complaint, I have considered that B was closed during 
this period  i.e. that access was prevented or hindered.
B contacted Covea to claim for its losses. Covea agreed to settle Bs losses, but only up until 
1 June 2020. B complained and said that it was not able to reopen at this point and that the 
claim period should extend beyond this. B said that its local council had issued guidance that 
meant it should not reopen on 1 June, and that the local rate of infection (the R-rate) was 
above 1. 
When Covea did not change its stance, B referred its complaint to the Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator did not think Bs complaint should be upheld though. She noted the 
statements made by the local council, and the R-rate. But said that this had not actually 
prevented or hindered access to Bs premises. 
As B remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on B, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that B closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time (other than to provide care for the children of keyworkers and so on). So, 
the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy B took out.
Whilst I have considered the whole of Bs policy, the most relevant clause is the Government 
or Local Authority Action clause in the business interruption section of the policy. This 
provides cover for:
Interruption of or interference with the childcare business in consequence of access 
to the premises being hindered or prevented as a result of the actions or advice of a 
government or local authority following an emergency which is likely to endanger life 
or property.
We will not be liable under this Extension for:

(b) any period when access to the premises was not prevented or hindered

Provided that the maximum indemnity period under this Extension will not exceed 3 
months from the date of interruption of or interference with the childcare business.
Our liability will not exceed £100,000 any one period of insurance.
As I say, it isnt disputed that access to the premises was prevented or hindered for an 
insured reason during the period 20 March 2020 to 1 June 2020. The question is whether or 
not access continued to be prevented or hindered, as a result of the actions or advice of a 
government or local authority, beyond this date. 
I do note the comments of Bs local council in June 2020. These include that:
[The Council] do not expect childcare providers or schools to adhere to government 
guidance in terms of timescales or the suggested year groups if they judge this not to 
be in the best interest of children.
Throughout this crisis the council has given support to childcare providers, schools, 
and parents to make decisions about how best to support and educate children in 
their care. We see no reason to change this approach.
We fully appreciate this is a complex situation, which is why we believe that decisions 
of this nature should be made at a local level by people who know their communities 
and their children best.
[A particular councillor has] said, Whilst we recognise the importance of schools 
supporting more children, we want to be absolutely clear that we are taking a 
measured and cautious approach to this. Our priority is the safety of the people we 
represent, and we therefore do not expect schools to support more pupils until they 
are assured it is safe to do so."
In the next few weeks all childcare providers and schools will be considering how 
best to operate. This requires consideration of how to keep children safe, the size of 
classes, the optimal building layout, transport arrangements, hygiene control, and the 
activities needed to ensure children remain engaged in education and learning. They 
will also need to consider how to best support teachers, teaching assistants, childcare workers, and support staff to stay safe.
This appears to make it clear that the council felt that the schools and nurseries would need 
to make their own decision on whether to reopen or not. Whilst I note the council said that it 
would support such decisions by those childcare providers, I dont think this would 
reasonably be considered an instruction or advice to not open. 
Similarly, whilst I note the references to the R-rate, this was a factor relating to the third of 
the five tests that the Government had included in terms of the decision it was making on 
whether it was safe to reopen schools and nurseries. On 28 May 2020, Prime Minister Boris 
Johnson said:
Based on the various data available, the Government is satisfied that the third test is 
being met.
And ultimately the Government made the decision to allow nurseries and schools to reopen. 
The Government did not issue advice that, in local areas where the R-rate was higher 
than 1, nurseries and schools should not reopen. 
So, whilst I do note the support offered by Bs local council for any childcare provider who 
decided not to reopen, and also that  certainly with the benefit of hindsight  B may well 
have made a socially responsible decision not to reopen given the local circumstances, the 
question I need to determine is whether this was due to the actions or advice of the 
Government or local authority. 
Ultimately, I think the Government advised that B could reopen and the local council left it to 
B to make the decision for itself. So, I cant fairly and reasonably conclude that it was 
anything other than Bs decision to remain closed. And I consider that it was this decision 
that caused access to Bs premises to remain hindered or prevented. It follows that I cant 
fairly and reasonably ask Covea to meet Bs claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have continued to meet Bs claim. I know this decision will 
be disappointing for B and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer further cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman