DRN-3922253
The complaint
Miss H complains about issues she experienced using her travel e-money account provided 
by First Rate Exchange Services Ltd.
Miss H is represented by Mr F but Ive referred mostly to her as its her account. 
What happened
Miss H was on holiday abroad when she had trouble making transactions using her travel 
money card. 
She called First Rate to find out why. They said there had been an error at the merchants 
end. They suggested Miss H try using the card in an Automated Teller Machine (ATM)  
which she said she did but this didnt help. Miss H said the card still wouldnt work. 
Miss H complained that she was left without money while she was on holiday. Miss H was 
further unhappy that First Rate hadnt refunded the balance of her card to her bank account 
by the time she returned from her trip. 
First Rate responded to Miss Hs complaint. They said the transactions had been declined 
for the same reasons Miss H had been given on the phone and they had no record of any 
attempts to use the card in an ATM. They said they couldnt return the money to Miss Hs 
bank account because the call had ended before Mr F, who had been speaking on Miss Hs 
behalf - had provided confirmation that he wanted the money to be returned and provided 
the account details so this could be processed. 
Our Investigator considered Miss Hs concerns. He said, in summary, the evidence 
suggested the problems Miss H experienced using her card were due to errors with the 
merchants they were trying to use the card at. And hed found, having listened to the calls, 
that, when asked, Mr F had not confirmed that he wanted the money to be returned to 
Miss Hs bank account and so as First Rate couldnt confirm this, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable they didnt do this. 
Miss H didnt agree, she said she had followed the instructions First Rate had given to try 
and reset the card but these steps hadnt worked. This had left her stranded abroad without 
money and then First Rate had not returned the money to her when they said they would.
 
As Miss H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Rate have provided evidence that the declined transactions were caused by processing 
errors at the merchants. I know Miss H and Mr F dont agree but Im satisfied that the 
declined transactions were not likely caused by an error made by First Rate. 
Ive listened to all the calls between Miss H, Mr F and First Rate. When Miss H first 
contacted them, First Rate suggested she try the card in an ATM to reset it. Miss H said 
she tried this, but it didnt work and the card never worked again. Its unfortunate that this 
didnt work, but I think First Rate were trying to help Miss H by suggesting this.
 
Im sure it was worrying and inconvenient for Miss H to have difficulty making payments 
using her card while she was away. It was up to Miss H to decide how to arrange her 
spending money for her trip. As I dont think First Rate has made a mistake for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I dont think I can fairly say they are responsible for the fact Miss H 
was without access to the money on the card while she was away and had to arrange for a 
third party to send her money to cover the rest of the trip.  
Miss H was also unhappy the balance of the travel money card wasnt transferred to her 
account by the time she and Mr F returned from their holiday. Ive listened to the call where 
Mr F discussed this with First Rate. Having done so, I can hear that First Rate offered to do 
this at the end of the conversation with Mr F on 1 August 2022. But Mr F doesnt answer, 
and then the call disconnects. Given that Mr F didnt confirm that he wanted First Rate to do 
this  and First Rate hadnt had a chance to ask for the account details he wanted the 
money returned to - I dont think its unreasonable that First Rate didnt go ahead and return 
the money without this. After Miss H complained, First Rate arranged for the money to be 
returned promptly. 
Overall, I find First Rate has treated Miss H fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman