DRN-4164492
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R have complained about how Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
(Gresham) settled a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R made a claim for a lost ring. By the point they made the claim, Mr R and Mrs 
R had already arranged for the ring to be replaced. They were unhappy with the offer 
Gresham made to settle the claim, so they complained.
When Gresham replied to the complaint, it said its settlement offer was fair in the 
circumstances. However, it offered £50 as a goodwill gesture, as it said the call handler 
could have set expectations better when the claim was reported.
So, Mr R and Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said what Gresham had offered was fair in the circumstances based on the policy terms 
and conditions.
As Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
The policy terms and conditions said Gresham would choose how to settle a claim. This is 
common in insurance policies. Gresham has said it would have replaced the ring, but Mr R 
and Mrs R had already arranged for it to be replaced by the time they contacted Gresham. 
So, Gresham offered a cash settlement or an e-voucher for the value of the ring. Mr R and 
Mrs R didnt think the amounts offered were fair. So, Ive thought about this.
Mr R and Mrs R were unable to provide a receipt or similar evidence of how much the ring 
cost or its specific details. They were able to provide a photo, but this provided only a limited 
view of the ring, so I think it was difficult to get an exact specification based on the photo. 
Greshams jewellery service provided a valuation for the ring based on the available 
information, which I think was reasonable.
Ive also thought about the valuation itself. From what Ive seen, this seemed to be based on 
a ring that was as close as possible to the one Mr R and Mrs R lost based on Greshams 
assessment. Gresham offered £795 as an e-voucher or a cash settlement of £245.20, once 
the excess was deducted. The policy said that where it could replace an item but it agreed to 
offer a cash settlement, Gresham would only pay what it would have cost it to replace the 
item. Again, this is common in insurance policies. The cash settlement was for less than the 
voucher and considerably less than the cost of the replacement ring Mr R and Mrs R had 
arranged. Insurers can often obtain rates that are less than those available to the public, so I 
dont think the much lower amount for the cash settlement was unusual. Insurers can also 
often offer more in settlement to policyholders as a voucher than in cash because of 
agreements they have in place. Based on what Ive seen, Im also satisfied Gresham didnt 
need to settle the claim at the amount Mr R and Mrs R agreed to pay for the ring.
Im aware Mr R and Mrs R think Gresham could have provided better advice when they 
registered the claim. They have said that they wouldnt have proceeded with the ring they 
had arranged if they had been better advised. However, during the call, Gresham didnt 
commit to paying for the ring at the cost to Mr R and Mrs R and it was made clear that the 
ring would need to be assessed. Gresham later offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill to 
address any loss of expectation, which I think was fair.
Mr R and Mrs R have said the voucher can only be used at two shops local to them and 
neither stock a comparable ring. Im mindful that Mr R and Mrs R had already arranged to 
replace the ring through a different retailer. Ive also looked at the online store for both 
retailers and one of them sells rings that appear to be comparable to the one that was lost 
and for an amount that the voucher would cover. I dont know what stock was available when 
Mr R and Mrs R visited the store, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Gresham to offer a 
voucher for the amount that it did and for it assess this was a fair settlement for the ring.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Gresham 
to do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman