DRN-4211442
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy HSBC Life (UK) Limited continued to decline her claim following 
additional medical evidence. 
What happened
Miss R has a history of illness. She became absent from work in July 2020 due to anxiety 
and stress and made a claim on her income protection policy. 
HSBC declined cover because they didnt think the evidence was enough to show Miss R 
was incapacitated. Unhappy with this decision, Miss R referred a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator said HSBC had been fair to decline cover based on the available medical 
evidence. And he thought it was reasonable for HSBC to conduct a report from an 
independent medical examination (IME). 
The IME concluded Miss R still didnt meet the definition of incapacity so the claim remained 
declined. Miss R was unhappy with the IME report and appealed the decision to decline her 
claim. She provided additional supporting evidence from her GP to show her inability to 
perform in her role during the relevant period. 
HSBC said Miss R still didnt meet the definition of incapacity. So she referred another 
complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded the additional evidence from her 
treating doctors provided more detail on Miss Rs symptoms and how they impacted her 
ability to work. So he upheld the complaint and asked HSBC to pay the claim. 
HSBC didnt agree and maintained there wasnt enough medical evidence to support 
incapacity. 
So the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say HSBC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as: 
 The Life Insured is unable to carry out the Material and Substantial Duties of [her] 
Occupation because of illness or injury". 
Ive thought carefully about the medical evidence presented in this claim. To be clear, weve 
already dealt with a separate complaint about HSBCs first decision to decline cover. So Im 
only commenting on if HSBC fairly considered the new evidence provided by Miss R to 
support her appeal to the claim decision. 
HSBC may be correct that Miss Rs initial stress and anxiety began due to workplace issues. 
But Im persuaded the additional evidence from the GP (who had treated Miss R for over 10 
years), was detailed and persuasive enough to support there had been a relapse in her 
underlying medical condition - and shed begun suffering symptoms that rendered her 
unable to work in 2020. 
I dont think HSBC treated this additional medical evidence fairly or gave it enough weight. Ill 
explain why: 
Ive given careful consideration to the detailed IME report and opinion from the 
consultant occupational physician. However, Im mindful this was based on Miss Rs 
medical records and one appointment in 2022. Im more persuaded by the additional 
medical evidence provided by the GP because Miss Rs relevant medical conditions 
date back over 10 years and her GP has been in regular contact with her throughout 
the development and attempted treatments of these conditions. So I find their 
detailed opinion on her change in symptoms from 2022 and underlying medical 
condition more persuasive and reliable in the circumstances. 
The additional evidence from the GP is much more detailed in regard to how Miss 
Rs symptoms directly impacted her ability to perform in her role. The letter explains 
the severity of Miss Rs brain fog and cognitive dysfunction meant she was unable to 
perform in her high profile and demanding role. It said Miss R struggled with thinking 
clearly and was unable to make links, follow simple patterns or speak coherently. The 
GP confirmed she had been bed bound for a significant time over the relevant period 
and any attempt to work wouldve further exasperated her symptoms. I found this 
detailed evidence to be relevant and persuasive in the circumstances. So I think 
HSBC shouldve given it more weight than it did.
I think its reasonable to conclude Miss Rs role requires a high degree of 
concentration. She works alongside senior stakeholders in a fast paced role and 
needs to be articulate and think strategically. Her treating GP said she was unable to 
work because the symptoms of her illnesses meant her decision-making abilities 
were severely impacted, as well as her concentration levels. So given Miss Rs 
profession and the level of responsibilities required of her as a senior professional, 
the GP thought it was too much for Miss R to be able to meet those demands 
because of her underlying medical conditions. 
The medical evidence from the time shows the GP had repeatedly issued fit notes to 
say Miss R was unable to work. I note HSBCs comments that this original evidence 
from the GP didnt refer to the specific symptoms that are now being reported. But its 
not uncommon for fit notes to lack detail. Im satisfied Miss Rs medical records from 
the time do make reference to her being tired and fatigued. So although initially this 
wasnt enough information to meet the definition of incapacity, its not unreasonable 
the GP was then able to expand on the fit notes and provide a more detailed 
breakdown of how her tiredness affected her ability to work. Its not unusual for a 
claimant to come back with more detailed evidence during an appeal.
I appreciate this detail has been added two years after the event, but the IME was 
also only carried out in 2022. And, as explained above, due to his knowledge and 
ongoing treatment of Miss R over a number of years, I find the updated GP opinion 
more reliable than the report from the IME. 
Its clear from the evidence that Miss Rs health has been up and down. Some 
periods she has felt better and more active than others and at times she has caused delay to the progression of her claim. But I think its unreasonable to expect a linear 
journey with Miss Rs kind of illness. 
In summary, whilst I acknowledge the IME report and why HSBC relied upon it to decline the 
claim, Im more persuaded by the additional evidence from the GP. Theyd been treating 
Miss R for so long in the past that in this specific case, I think the GP was best placed to 
determine her ability to return to work. And Im satisfied the GP provided enough persuasive 
medical evidence for HSBC to fairly conclude Miss Rs anxiety triggered a relapse of her 
underlying medical conditions and caused symptoms that prevented her from working from 
2020.
Putting things right
HSBC Life (UK) Limited need to put things right by:
Settling Miss Rs claim from the end of the deferred period until Miss Rs return to 
work - subject to Miss R consenting to HSBC being able to check for any potential 
shared liability under any other policies.  
Pay 8% interest on the sum above, from the date HSBC maintained the claim decline 
(following receipt of the IME and additional GP evidence) up until the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC Life (UK) Limited to put things right as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman