DRN-3492837
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited provided him with unsuitable advice in 1990 
regarding the transfer of pension benefits from an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension.
What happened
Mr C held pension benefits within an OPS. In 1990 he was provided with advice by General 
Portfolio, which later became part of Windsor Life, about the transfer of those benefits into a 
personal pension plan. ReAssure is now responsible for the advice that was given by those 
businesses, so it is ReAssure that has dealt with Mr Cs complaint. For ease, in this decision, 
I will refer to ReAssure as the business that provided the advice about Mr Cs pension 
benefits.
Mr C was advised by ReAssure to transfer his OPS benefits to a personal pension plan. He 
accepted that advice and his new pension plan was opened in March 1990.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests of 
consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had previously been 
provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect advice to 
transfer benefits.
In 2002 ReAssure told Mr C that it had completed a review on the advice it had given to him. 
That review concluded that the advice that Mr C had been given wasnt entirely suitable and 
that he had lost out as a result of transferring his pension benefits. So ReAssure paid Mr C 
some compensation that it added into a new pension plan. 
Mr C used his pension benefits in 2011 to purchase an annuity. Recently Mr C has been 
reviewing his pension benefits. He says that he would have been much better off remaining 
as a member of his occupational pension scheme. So he asked ReAssure to reconsider 
whether the advice it had given him in 1990 had been appropriate. ReAssure explained that 
the pensions review exercise was intended to be a one-off and so it wasnt appropriate for it 
to reconsider whether the advice it had given in 1990 was in Mr Cs best interests
Mr C brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has been assessed by one of our 
investigators. He said that he hadnt any reason to think that ReAssure had failed to carry 
out the review in line with the regulators guidance. And since he agreed with ReAssure that 
the review had been designed as a one-off exercise he didnt think ReAssure needed to do 
anything further.
 
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C and by ReAssure. Having done so I dont think I need to consider 
whether the advice Mr C was given by ReAssure in 1990 was suitable as I will explain 
below.
The review that ReAssure completed for Mr C in 2002 was part of a large industry wide 
exercise supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases it 
wouldnt be possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational pension schemes 
they had been advised to leave. So the aim of the review was to check whether the value of 
the pension investments Mr C held with ReAssure would provide similar benefits to those 
hed have received from his occupation scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr C, there was a lengthy period left before their expected retirement date. 
So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary because 
of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 2002. So although the compensation ReAssure paid Mr C 
following the review was expected to ensure the pension savings he held would at least 
match the benefits he would have received from the occupational scheme at retirement, 
circumstances have meant that this isnt now the case.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
ReAssure carried out the review of Mr Cs situation as it was required to. I do understand 
why Mr C is unhappy that his pension benefits are likely to be less than he might have 
received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then regulators decision on how to 
deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this Service should now 
challenge or ignore.
Mr C has also said he understands the advisor from ReAssure who met with him in 1990 
was subsequently convicted of fraud and so it seems he thinks that casts doubt on the 
advice he was given. As I explained earlier, I dont think it is necessary for me to look at the 
advice that was provided to Mr C. In 2002 ReAssure accepted that the advice he was given 
had caused the value of his pension savings to be less than if hed remained in the OPS. It 
paid him what the regulator thought was reasonable compensation.
I can see that, when it responded to Mr Cs recent complaint, ReAssure provided him with 
copies of its compensation offer from 2002 that was accepted by Mr C. But I think I should 
make it clear that ReAssure only provided details of that compensation for Mr Cs 
information  it wasnt offering to make a further payment to him. And for the reasons I have 
given above, I dont think it needs to pay anything further.In 2011 Mr C used his pension savings, including the amount that ReAssure had paid him in 
compensation, to purchase an annuity. I dont know the basis on which that was sold  and 
whether Mr C took financial advice before making his decision to take an annuity. But 
annuities cannot generally be reversed once they are put into payment. So the information 
ReAssure has provided to Mr C about him having no further pension savings he could use to 
purchase a funeral plan appears to be correct.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr C. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, he is left with a pension that 
is most likely significantly less than hed have received if hed stayed as a member of the 
occupational scheme. 
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be 
conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given. That review was 
designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about whether compensation 
needed to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt 
reasonable for me to expect ReAssure to pay further compensation when it has already paid 
the compensation the regulator required in response to the review. So I dont think ReAssure 
needs to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman