DRN-2752003
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly reduced the interest rate on his 
account when he exceeded the withdrawal limit.
What happened
Mr T says he unknowingly made six withdrawals from his account which meant Nationwide 
reduced the interest rate on his account from .05% to .01%. He says that was unfair and he 
wasnt given any warning before doing so and that other Nationwide accounts have a clear 
warning. Mr T calculates the loss of interest at about £1,918 and would like Nationwide to 
pay him that amount. He says he was signed up to a Savings Watch and wouldnt have 
made the withdrawals if he was aware of the penalty.
Nationwide says its account terms and conditions make clear that the interest rate will 
reduce if six or more withdrawals are made. It doesnt accept making a mistake and says 
there was a warning on the online page about this. It also says the Savings Watch wouldnt 
have prevented this situation from taking place.
Mt T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it and thought Nationwide 
had acted in line with the account terms and conditions. The investigator thought those 
terms and conditions made clear six or more withdrawals would result in a reduced interest 
rate. And thought it up to Nationwide to decide on the information it told customers on each 
type of account.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and in summary says the account was opened in 2009 and 
questions why Nationwide has different warnings for different types of account. He says 
Nationwide should pay him a goodwill gesture and also says the interest rate information on 
his account statements in misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Mr Ts account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that if six or 
more withdrawals are made then the interest rate will reduce. I find that is what took place 
here that Mr T made six or more withdrawals and Nationwide in line with those account 
terms and conditions reduced the interest rate. So, it follows that Im satisfied that 
Nationwide didnt made a mistake or act unfairly.
I appreciate Mr T says he unknowingly made the withdrawals and if he had known about the 
interest rate reduction would have used a different account for those withdrawals. But I cant 
fairly hold Nationwide responsible for that and think it was Mr Ts responsibility to be aware 
of the account conditions.
We are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to tell it what information it 
provides to customers about the withdrawals or if it should warn them about the number of 
withdrawals made. I appreciate Nationwide may provide that information on some accounts 
but not others. But for the reasons I have explained, I think its up to Nationwide to make 
such commercial decisions and is not something I can fairly interfere in. In any event I can 
see Nationwide says it does provide a warning, but I dont think that matters as I have found 
that it acted in line with the terms and conditions.
I dont think the Savings Watch is relevant to the key issue here and I cant fairly order 
Nationwide make a gesture of goodwill. I also dont think the interest rate recorded on the 
statements has any relevance to that key issue.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide has acted in line with agreed terms and conditions and so I 
cant fairly order it to repay Mr T any lost interest caused by his withdrawals.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman