DRN-3042894
The complaint
Mr H complains that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) hasnt refunded fees he paid for a
structural defects insurance policy arranged through its appointed representative, CRL
Management Limited (CRL).
In summary, Mr Hs complaint is about two things. First, he says CRL ought not to have sold
this particular policy to him because it should have appreciated that the insurer  Alpha
Insurance which ultimately went into bankruptcy  was a liquidity risk. Secondly, because a 
warranty could not be issued following Alphas bankruptcy and he had to obtain another 
warranty with another insurer, Mr H says he should be refunded all the money he paid to 
CRL, as well as the extra he paid for a policy with another insurer.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr H entered into an agreement with CRL for a structural defects policy to
cover a self-build property.
CRL was an appointed representative of BCR, a firm authorised by the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA)  the UK regulator - to carry out specific regulated activities under the
umbrella of insurance distribution.
The sum Mr H paid CRL was £2572.27 in total. £418.00 was for the policy premium,
including insurance premium tax. £1759.27 was for combined underwriting, risk
management, site assessment and inspection fees. And £329.16 was for construction
register membership. CRL required Mr H to become a member on its register. Membership
obligated members to comply with CRLs directions and entitled them to incentives and other
benefits. For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to the activities of underwriting, risk
management, site assessment and inspection fees as the CRL Services .
The insurer was Alpha Insurance A/S (Alpha), a Danish firm, regulated in Denmark. Alpha
had permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  the UK regulator - to passport
services into the UK. Alpha had entered into an agreement on 25 January 2016 with BCR
and CRL.
The binder agreement appointed BCR and its appointed representatives as the Cover
holder. This allowed BCR or CRL to arrange structural defects policies which Alpha would
insure. BCR were also appointed as agent for Alpha to receive insurance premiums, settle
refunds and hold claims monies to pass on to an insured. The binder was signed by both
BCRs director and the chief operating officer and the chief executive officer of Alpha.
There were several later endorsements to the binder. The endorsement dated 23 August
2017, permitted the cover holder to settle insurance claims below a value of £25,000. The
endorsement dated 9 October 2017 amended section 25.2 of the binder. The new section
stated the cover holder was allowed to charge for risk management, site assessment and
inspections. The endorsement dated 13 November 2017 amended a section of the binder in
relation to the maximum sums which could be insured.
According to Alphas 10-year policy document, CRL acted as Alphas technical controller.
Alphas 10-year policy document provided the following definition of technical controller:
CRL, the company appointed by the Insurer to review documentation, carry out inspections
and monitor compliance with CRL Technical Requirements on its behalf as pre-condition to
giving Pre-completion Insurance Certificates and Post-completion Insurance Certificates.
The policy defined a pre-completion certificate as:
The certificate issued by CRL as Technical Controller on behalf of the Insurer to signify
acceptance of Your Deposit for insurance under Section 1 of the Cover section of the
Policy.
And it defined a post-completion certificate as:
The certificate issued by CRL as Technical Controller on behalf of the Insurer to signify
acceptance of Your Residential Property or property for insurance under Sections 2, 3 and 4
of the Cover section of the Policy following the notification of satisfactory practical
completion by the appointed building inspector.
Alpha was declared bankrupt in May 2018. This led to all the latent defects policies it issued
terminating on 11 August 2018. As a result, many policyholders were left without a valid
warranty covering their properties.
CRL could not issue a post-completion insurance certificate to Mr H because of Alphas
collapse. It sent Mr H an email on 5 June 2018 saying it would try to keep costs down, but
Mr H would need to pay a new insurance premium for a policy with a different insurer. It later
provided Mr H with a quote for a policy with a different insurer which Mr H was unhappy with.
He said the quote didnt account for the fees he had already paid. His property had been
completed and CRL should have issued him with a policy from another insurer without extra
cost to him.
Mr H found another insurer independently to provide a policy and complained to CRL. He
wanted a refund of all the monies he paid to CRL in relation to the Alpha policy. CRL
refused. It said the premium for the policy had been passed to Alpha, so he would need to
contact either Alpha or BCR about a refund. It said it had actually undertaken risk
management, site inspection and reports, so as these services had been performed he
wasnt due a refund.
Mr H also contacted BCR during this time. BCR said he needed to make a claim on Alphas
website for a return of the premium and contact CRL to claim the rest of the fees relating to
the CRL Services back.
In August 2019, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) agreed to refund
premiums to Alpha policyholders, subject to qualifying conditions and its schemes
limitations. But as far as I understand, Mr H has not made a claim to the FSCS. He thinksBCR should refund the money he paid, including the premium for the Alpha policy.
BCR terminated its relationship as principal to CRL in September 2019. My understanding is
CRL ceased writing any new business shortly afterwards and entered into a company
voluntary arrangement.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service in February 2019. An investigator found it wasnt
one we could consider because it fell outside our jurisdiction. They said BCR was acting as
an agent for Alpha when selling the policy. And, as Alpha wasnt regulated by the FCA in the
United Kingdom, our service couldnt consider his complaint.
The investigator also found that even if we could look into the complaint, the CRL Services
Mr H paid CRL to carry out and wanted refunded, werent regulated activities. So, we 
couldnt consider a complaint about BCR (as CRLs appointed representative) in relation to 
them. Mr H asked for a decision on this matter by an ombudsman, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued two decisions on our jurisdiction to consider Mr Hs complaint  a provisional
jurisdiction decision in April 2020 and following further submissions by both Mr H and BCR, a
jurisdiction decision in November 2020. I found our service was able to consider most of Mr
Hs complaint against BCR (as CRLs principal) in relation to the CRL Services, except in
relation to the fee for membership of CRLs construction membership.
Mr H accepted my decision on our services jurisdiction, but BCR did not and it provided
further submissions for me to consider. I issued another provisional decision in July 2021, 
which addressed BCRs further points on our services jurisdiction, and provided my 
provisional findings on the merits of Mr Hs complaint. In summary, my findings were that the 
sale of and ultimate provision by CRL of the CRL Services:
(a) is either part and parcel of the carrying on by CRL of the regulated activities of: (i) dealing 
in investments as agent (Article 21 of the Regulated Activities Order (the
RAO)); or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or
(b) constitutes the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated activities; 
and
(c) that these activities are ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the 
appointed representative agreement, such that it is responsible for CRLs acts/omissions in 
relation to them.
I also reconsidered whether the construction register membership fee Mr H paid fell under 
our services jurisdiction and I found that it did on the same basis as above.
I didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. I found the services CRL agreed to carry out were likely 
performed by A. The company CRL appointed to provide surveys, inspections and reports, 
who Ill refer to as A confirmed they had received payment from CRL on a call to our 
investigator. The reason Mr H didnt get an Alpha warranty was because of Alphas collapse. 
But BCR was not responsible for this, and neither it, nor CRL, were bound to provide him 
with a new policy at no additional cost.
I found no evidence to show BCR ought to have warned Mr H about Alphas solvency when 
he bought the insurance contract. Indeed, there didnt appear to be any apparent concerns 
about Alpha at that time. Neither could I find evidence to show BCR failed in its 
responsibilities to carry out proper due diligence on Alpha around the time of the purchase. So, I didnt find CRL should not have sold the insurance contract or that Mr H wasnt given 
the information he needed when he bought the insurance contract.
Mr H responded to my provisional decision. He said A told him he hadnt received payment 
from CRL, and he provided an email he received from them. He says CRL were never in a 
position to issue a warranty as a result.
 
BCR also responded. It still disputes my jurisdiction to consider Mr Hs complaint. In 
summary, it said:
The CRL Services  i.e. the carrying out of surveys and inspections, and maintaining 
the CRL register of members, are not in and of themselves regulated activities. It 
wasnt therefore possible for the CRL Services to form part of the any of any 
regulated activities for which BCR had accepted responsibility.
The CRL Services were not required for coverage under the warranty because the 
warranty could only be issued on building control sign off, which was separate to the 
CRL Services. So, the performance of the CRL Services was not crucial to the 
warranty being issued.
BCR did not accept responsibility for the CRL Services. S39(3) FSMA means a 
principal can only be held responsible for regulated activities it had accepted 
responsibility for. The appointed representative agreement shows BCR did not 
accept responsibility for the CRL Services. So, even if the CRL Services were part 
and parcel of, or ancillary to, the regulated activities I had identified, BCR still couldnt 
be held liable for them because it hadnt accepted responsibility for them as CRLs 
principal.
If CRL were acting as agent for Alpha, then BCR could not be responsible for CRLs 
actions. Alpha did not fall under our jurisdiction, so it follows that the activities CRL 
performed as its agent also dont fall under our jurisdiction. Another ombudsman had 
issued a previous decision on our services jurisdiction which followed this 
understanding.
After considering all the points made by Mr H and BCR, I am now ready to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our services jurisdiction over Mr Hs complaint
Before I go on to reconsider the merits of Mr Hs complaint, its important I address the 
further points BCR made in response to my last provisional decision. After carefully 
considering what BCR has said, I still find Mr Hs complaint is one I can consider for the 
same reasons I gave in my provisional decision. The findings I made in my provisional 
decision form part of my findings for this decision. As a result, the provisional decision has 
been attached to the email containing this decision.
Ill now address the further points BCR made in regard to our services jurisdiction over this 
complaint.I understand building inspection sign-off is required under building regulations. And I 
also understand CRL required confirmation of the building regulation sign-off to issue 
a post completion insurance certificate. But Mr H didnt pay CRL for building 
regulation sign off. He paid for the CRL Services as part and parcel of the insurance 
contract he bought. This was separate to the building control work Mr H had 
contracted with A to perform.
The fact building regulation sign off was required to issue a post completion 
insurance certificate does not also mean CRL didnt require the CRL Services to 
have been performed for the purposes of the insurance contract it had sold. So, I 
dont find the requirement for building control sign off in and of itself shows that the 
CRL Services were not part of the regulated activities BCR authorised CRL to carry 
out.
I disagree with BCRs suggestion that the CRL Services cannot amount to the 
carrying on of regulated activities simply because  to use BCRs example of a 
surveyor who carries out a building survey  the actual carrying out of the survey 
would not, viewed solely from the surveyors perspective, be a regulated activity. 
I think this argument oversimplifies the point I made in my provisional decision. It is 
critical to view matters from CRLs perspective  that is, what CRL itself was doing. 
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision (as supplemented by this final 
decision), I consider that  the CRL Services which CRL had contracted to provide 
were part and parcel of (or ancillary to) the regulated activities which CRL was 
undertaking in connection with the arranging the sale of the contract of insurance to 
Mr H. 
I have also considered what BCR has said about s39(3) FSMA. In essence, BCR 
contends that it cannot be responsible for a complaint about the CRL Services 
because it did not expressly accept responsibility for them in its appointed 
representative agreement. It says that the terms of this agreement and the Court of 
Appeals decision in Adam Anderson & Others v Sense Network Limited [2019] 
EWCA Civ 1395 support its position.
However, I do not agree. I consider that the authority BCR has referred to and the 
terms of the appointed representative agreement support the findings I have made. 
As I explained in my last provisional decision, the appointed representative 
agreement permitted CRL to carry out certain regulated activities (including the 
activities of arranging, dealing as agent, and making arrangements with a view to 
transactions, in relation to non-investment insurance contracts). Under the terms of 
this agreement, BCR authorised CRL to carry on business consisting of such 
activities, and BCR expressly accept[ed] responsibility for the activities of [CRL] in 
carrying on the whole or part of the business.
By application of s. 39(3) FSMA 2000, BCR is responsible for anything done in 
[CRL] carrying on those activities. And given my findings that the provision of the 
CRL Services was either part and parcel of the regulated activities under Article 25 
and/or Article 21 (or at the very least ancillary to them), I think it clearly follows that 
BCR is responsible for CRLs acts/omissions in relation to the CRL Services under s. 
39(3) FSMA 2000. Clause 2.2 of the appointed representative agreement does not, 
as BCR suggests, limit what BCR accepted responsibility for so as to detract from my 
findings on this.
 BCR have referred to another ombudsmans decision which came to a different 
conclusion on jurisdiction. I understand that ombudsman reached a different 
conclusion to me. But this is my decision based on all the information and evidence I 
have seen and requested. I am not bound by the other ombudsmans jurisdiction 
decision and I have fully explained my reasons for reaching the decision I have, 
taking both parties representations into account.
I disagree with BCRs suggestion that it cannot be responsible for this complaint just 
because CRL acted as agent for Alpha in certain respects. Even if CRL was acting 
as Alphas agent in certain respects, that does not necessarily mean that it could not 
also have been undertaking activities which amount to regulated activities and for 
which BCR accepted responsibility under the appointment representative agreement.
For the reasons set out in my last provisional decision (and as supplemented in my final 
decision), I consider that the activities carried out by CRL in relation to the CRL Services, 
even if they were in some respects carried out as agent of Alpha, were also part and parcel 
(or ancillary to) the regulated activities which CRL was carrying out as BCRs appointed 
representative.
 
Accordingly, I consider that I have jurisdiction to consider Mr Hs complaint.
My findings on the merits of Mr Hs complaint
Ive listened carefully to what Mr H has said following my provisional decision. But it hasnt 
changed my mind and I have decided not to uphold his complaint for the same reasons I 
gave in my last provisional decision. The findings I made in my provisional decision form part 
of my findings for this decision. As a result, the provisional decision has been attached to the 
email containing this decision. I will now turn my attention to the points Mr H made after my 
provisional decision.
Mr H has shown that A emailed him and said it didnt receive payment from CRL and it didnt 
send reports to CRL. So, A is now saying something quite different to what it told our 
investigator on a phone call.
 
Our investigator contacted A for comment. A said it had made a mistake when previously 
confirming to them that it had received payment from CRL for the CRL Services. It hadnt. It 
had mistaken the payment it received for the work carried out for the new insurer Mr H went 
on to choose as a payment from CRL. It did, however, confirm it carried out the CRL 
Services, but didnt pass on reports to CRL because it wasnt paid. I find then that the CRL 
services were performed. 
A also told our investigator it would only send reports to CRL at the end of a build unless 
something had been identified which CRL needed to know about in terms of the CRLs 
requirements to issue an Alpha warranty.  So, CRL would have understood the construction 
of Mr Hs property met Alphas requirements up until the point Alpha collapsed.
 
A confirmed that Mr Hs new insurer had its own forms which it required A complete to 
ensure it met that insurers requirements. A confirmed the information it included on the 
insurers forms related to the building control work it had previously carried out for Mr H, as 
well as some of the work it previously carried out for CRL. But I dont find this shows A would 
not have needed to follow this process had it produced reports and sent them to CRL. 
I appreciate A may not have been paid for the CRL Services, but I dont find this is a loss Mr 
H suffered. Whether or not A was paid, Mr H would have been in the same position whether A sent CRL reports or not. As Alpha collapsed it would never have been possible for a post 
completion insurance certificate to be issued. So, I find Mr Hs loss is not attributable to A not 
being paid by CRL.
  
Mr H says CRL agreed to provide a new insurance quote which cost far less than the quote 
CRL went on to provide. He said he was told he would only need to pay between £400-£500 
for a new policy. But I havent seen evidence to show CRL committed to providing a new 
policy at this cost when another insurer would require other work to be completed which 
came at an additional cost.
Instead, I find its likely the quote CRL provided to Mr H was based on what that insurer 
required to issue its own warranty. I say this because I doubt another insurer would be 
prepared to go on risk based on reports produced for the purposes of another insurer  in 
this case, Alpha. The insurer would likely want its own assurances and process followed, 
which would require further payment from Mr H.
So, I dont find what Mr H has said in response to my provisional decision has changed my 
finding that BCR do not need to refund him the fees he paid CRL for the CRL services or the 
insurance premium he paid. 
Accordingly, I still find:
The insurance policy Mr H purchased from CRL was not mis-sold. I find BCR 
conducted appropriate due diligence on Alpha, and importantly, BCR would not have 
known Alpha would eventually collapse when Mr H purchased the insurance. After 
all, Alpha collapsed over a year after the purchase, and CRL had been arranging 
Alpha warranties for some time without Alphas solvency being an issue. The 
evidence BCR presented indicated Alphas reported solvency levels met or exceeded 
the insurer solvency requirements at the relevant time.
I dont find CRL were obligated to provide Mr H with a warranty from a different 
provider simply because Alpha collapsed. Neither BCR nor CRL were responsible for 
Alphas insolvency and the consequences that had for Mr H. So, I dont find BCR is 
liable to refund the premium Mr H paid which was passed to Alpha or the fees he 
paid to CRL for the CRL Services, which were carried out by A.
 
Mr H had paid CRL for membership of its construction register. But again, Mr H did 
receive this service, and I dont find the fee needed to be refunded because Alpha 
collapsed or because A may not have been paid for the CRL Services by CRL.
My final decisionI have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman