DRN-2832629
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited wouldnt raise a chargeback request 
following a dispute he had with an online retailer about an order he placed which didnt 
arrive.
What happened
Mr S purchased several items online. However, these items werent delivered, so Mr S 
contacted the online merchant and inquired as to why. Following this, the online merchant 
conducted their own investigation and concluded that the items had been delivered 
successfully. The online merchant explained to Mr S that this meant that they couldnt refund 
him the cost of the items, and they recommended that Mr S contact the police if he believed 
the delivered items had been intercepted or stolen.
Mr S then contacted Wirecard - who issued the card which Mr S had used to pay for the 
items - and requested a refund under their consumer protection. Wirecard looked into the 
matter for Mr S, but because the online merchant had stated that the items had been 
delivered, Wirecard didnt feel that a chargeback request was reasonably likely to succeed. 
So, they didnt raise a chargeback request and instead recommended that Mr S follow the 
online merchants advice and contact the police.
Mr S wasnt happy about how Wirecard had handled his refund request, so he raised a 
complaint. Wirecard looked at Mr Ss complaint, but they didnt fee that they had acted 
unreasonably by declining to raise a chargeback request, so they didnt uphold that aspect of 
Mr Ss complaint. However, Wirecard did acknowledge that the standard of service that they 
provided to Mr S surrounding this matter could have been better, so they offered Mr S a 
goodwill payment of £10 because of this.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Wirecard response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Wirecard had 
acted unreasonably by not raising a chargeback request, so they also didnt uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable that Mr S would be concerned when the items that he ordered online 
didnt arrive and that he would seek a refund of the cost of those items, initially from the 
online merchant from whose site the items were purchased, and then using the consumer 
protection available to him on his card.
In instances where a refund is sought for a card transaction, it can be the case that a 
chargeback can be requested to obtain that refund. However, its important here to clarify 
what a chargeback dispute is: Its a process by which some disputes are resolved between 
the card issuer, in this case Wirecard, and merchants, in this case the online merchant, 
under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Mastercard - whose symbol is on the 
card. Mastercard has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are 
used, and this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules 
are quite strict, and Wirecard doesn't have the power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Wirecard werent required to ask Mastercard for the 
transaction to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good 
practice for them to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
In this instance, Wirecard didnt think that the chargeback claim was likely to succeed, and 
this was because the online merchant was stating that the items had been delivered 
successfully. This meant that the circumstances of this dispute werent such that they met 
the criteria, stipulated by Mastercard, such that the chargeback claim had any reasonable 
chance of success.
Because of this, its difficult to conclude that Wirecard acted unfairly or unreasonably here in 
declining to proceed with the chargeback claim that Mr S wanted, and I say this because 
Wirecard had established that the proposed chargeback claim had little chance of success  
as explained above.
Im aware that Mr S feels that Wirecards decision to not process the chargeback claim 
represents an instance of substandard consumer protection. I dont share Mr Ss opinion on 
this point, and for me to consider Wirecards actions here as substandard, I would need to 
be satisfied that most other issuers would have acted differently. However, in this instance, 
Wirecard were simply following the chargeback rules as prescribed by the card provider, and 
so its difficult to conclude that any other issuer would have acted differently here - in 
consideration of clear rules issued by the card provider which they were obliged to follow.  
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Wirecard to take any further action at this time. I hope that 
Mr S can understand, given everything I have explained, why I have made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman