DRN-3879422
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited declined the claim she made on her and 
her husbands joint life policy after he passed away.  And they cancelled the policy because 
a misrepresentation had been made about Mr S at the time they bought it.  
What happened
In mid-2020, Mrs S wanted to buy life cover for herself and her husband.  She contacted 
several brokers for assistance.  Most told her they couldnt find a suitable policy, as Mr S 
wasnt living in the United Kingdom or European Union at the time and couldnt return for 
various reasons, including Covid-19 travel restrictions.  
One broker did say they could assist and completed an application for Mr and Mrs S for a 
policy with HSBC.  HSBC accepted the application and the policy was activated.
At the start of 2021, Mr S sadly died overseas.  Hed not been in the UK for about two years 
before his death.
Mrs S claimed on the policy.  HSBC investigated the circumstances of his death.  The 
questionnaire Mrs S completed led them to review the information given at the time the 
policy was purchased.  HSBC said there had been a misrepresentation in the application 
because the option: 
I intend to live, travel or work outside of the UK or EU within the next year
hadnt been selected.  They said if theyd known at the time of the sale where Mr S had been 
living, they wouldnt have provided cover.  So they declined the claim, cancelled the policy, 
and refunded the premiums that had been paid.
Mrs S complained to HSBC.  She said the broker knew her husband was overseas when the 
application was made, and it was they who completed the application forms.  And she said 
shed contacted HSBC after buying the policy to check he was covered and had been told he 
was.
HSBC didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.  They told her shed need to raise concerns about 
the advice or service shed received from the broker with them.  And they confirmed that, if 
theyd known where Mr S was living at the time of the application, they wouldnt have 
covered him.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded HSBC didnt need to do any more to resolve it.  He 
concluded that theyd dealt with Mrs S in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).  He noted that the broker had gone into 
administration.  So he said Mrs S would need to refer any claim against them to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.  I know shell find that upsetting and 
Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain why Ive come to that conclusion.
Ive no doubt that, when she contacted brokers, Mrs S explained her family circumstances to 
them accurately but the broker who made the application for her didnt reflect that in how 
they completed the forms.  As HSBC and our investigator told her, thats an issue which 
would have to be raised with the broker.  
I appreciate the broker has gone into liquidation. But that doesnt mean I can hold HSBC 
responsible for what they did.  I can only say HSBC should do something differently if Im 
satisfied they did something wrong themselves and didnt act in accordance with the law.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies - provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
HSBC say there was a misrepresentation on Mr Ss application because the option Ive 
quoted above wasnt selected.  So they didnt know he was still living overseas  only that he 
had done in the past.  
HSBC have provided a copy of the information provided.  The option isnt selected.  Mrs S 
says she provided information to the broker, who completed the application form.  And she 
says she called HSBC after buying the policy to check Mr S was covered even though he 
was overseas.
The copy of the application confirms it was completed by the broker.  Our investigator asked 
HSBC to check for recordings of any calls Mrs S made to them from the time the policy was 
taken out until Mr Ss death.  HSBC couldnt find any records.  
Without any evidence to persuade me otherwise, I think HSBC had only the information in 
the application form when they offered Mr S cover.   That information wasnt accurate, 
because Mr S hadnt returned home and continued to live overseas  albeit due to travel 
restrictions as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.  So Im satisfied a misrepresentation was 
made.
And Im satisfied the misrepresentation is a qualifying one, because HSBC provided their 
underwriting criteria to the investigator.  This shows theyd have declined cover if Mr S had 
told them where he was intending to live after the policy was taken out.
HSBC have classified the misrepresentation as careless.  I think thats reasonable.  Mrs S 
clearly knew how important it was to provide the right information for the application.  And I 
think classifying the misrepresentation as careless recognises she did what she could to 
provide that. CIDRA allows HSBC to avoid the policy where theres been a careless misrepresentation 
and they wouldnt have offered cover if theyd known the true situation  in effect, they can 
treat the policy as if it had never existed.  So that means they dont have to deal with the 
claim Mrs S had made but they should return the premiums that have been paid.
HSBC have done this.  So  while I acknowledge Mrs S remains unhappy  I dont think they 
need to do any more to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about HSBC Life (UK) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman