DRN-2466371
The complaint
Ms Os complained that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) delayed in releasing the 
proceeds of her Lifetime ISA account to her solicitors when she bought her first home.  That 
meant she had to borrow money from elsewhere to complete her purchase.  And because 
the proceeds werent then used for the purchase, Ms O had to pay a 25% charge to HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC).
What happened
In 2017, Ms O opened a Lifetime ISA (LISA) with Skipton to help her save for her first 
home.
A LISA allows someone to save up to £4,000 each year.  The government will add a 25% 
bonus to what is saved (up to a maximum of £1,000).  The money can only be withdrawn 
without penalty for certain reasons  one of which is buying your first home.  If its withdrawn 
for any other reason, a charge equivalent to 25% of the amount withdrawn is made.
In 2019, Ms O found a house she wanted to buy.  She was going to use the money saved in 
her LISA to help fund the purchase.  Shortly before completion, Ms O went into her local 
Skipton branch to check how to get money from her LISA sent to her solicitors.  She says 
she was told she and her solicitors would need to complete declaration forms.  And if that 
was done, Skipton would release the funds two days before completion.
But Ms Os solicitors didnt receive the funds before completion.  So Ms O had to borrow 
money from a member of her family to make up the difference.  And, when she contacted 
Skipton about getting the money paid over, she was told that Skipton would withhold 25% 
because the money wasnt being used to buy her first house  it was being used to repay a 
loan.
Ms O complained.  She said shed signed all the documents shed been asked to before 
completion.  And the money was still being used to fund her first house purchase, because 
she was repaying the money shed had to borrow to complete.  So she said she was entitled 
to receive the proceeds without any deduction.
Skipton considered Ms Os complaint.  They said they ask for 30 days notice that money will 
be withdrawn, to make sure funds are available for completion.  But they accepted that Ms O 
had been given the wrong information about how soon funds would be available and offered 
her £50 compensation for this.
Skipton also said theyd not received a form theyd emailed to Ms O, which meant theyd not 
been able to release the money in time.  And they told Ms O that the terms and conditions of 
the LISA are set by HMRC - and its HMRC who decide when the 25% penalty is applied.
Ms O asked us to consider her complaint.  She told us that shed never received any 
document from Skipton via email.  She and her solicitor had both signed all the forms theyd 
been asked to.
Our investigator looked into Ms Os complaint but didnt think Skipton needed to do anything 
more to resolve it.  He noted that the rules for LISAs are set by HMRC  so it was up to them 
whether a penalty is charged.  And Skiptons terms and conditions say that it may take up to 
30 days to release the funds held in a LISA.  Finally he saw that Skipton had sent Ms O an 
email asking for more documents to be signed.  That document had been sent to the correct 
email address.  So although Ms O hadnt received that, he couldnt say that was Skiptons 
fault.
Ms O didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint. 
I sympathise with Ms O.  She worked hard to save the deposit for her first home, using a 
government scheme designed to help her do that.  And it was clearly stressful to have to find 
a lump sum to complete her purchase when the money shed saved for that purpose wasnt 
available.
But to uphold her complaint, I must be able to say that this was Skiptons fault.  And I cant 
do that.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Skiptons key facts document.  Under the heading How do I make a 
withdrawal to buy a house? the document says:
When you come to buy, youll need to tell your conveyancer you want to use part or all of 
your Lifetime ISA towards the purchase and provide them with a declaration.
Your conveyancer also has to provide us with a declaration. Its your responsibility to ensure 
this is provided, but your conveyancer should do this as part of the buying process.
Once we receive the appropriate paperwork from your conveyancer well pay the amount 
requested to the conveyancer within 30 days without applying the government withdrawal 
charge.
Im satisfied from this that Skipton made Ms O aware of the process for making a withdrawal 
to buy a house  and how long that may take.  And Ive seen there was no need to wait until 
just before exchange of contracts to request money from the LISA.  The declaration signed 
by Ms Os solicitors shows that the purchase had to be completed within 90 days of the 
solicitors receiving the money  and they could ask for this time to be extended for a total of 
another 90 days.  So Im satisfied there were mechanisms in place to make sure the money 
was available in good time for the purchase  it didnt need to be dealt with at the last 
minute.
Skipton have said that they couldnt release the money in time because theyd not received a 
form they needed from Ms O.  Ms O says she never received this.  But Ive seen Skiptons 
system notes.  These show that documents were sent to Ms O by email.  Her email address 
is correct.  So - while its extremely unfortunate that she didnt receive the form they needed 
- I cant say that was Skiptons fault.
Finally, Ive considered Ms Os complaint that Skipton shouldnt have kept 25% of what she 
wanted to withdraw.LISAs must be operated according to rules set by HMRC.  Skipton cant choose how they 
apply the rules. The rules say a charge of 25% applies to withdrawals from a LISA, unless 
the withdrawal is for one of the purposes permitted  in this case, to buy Ms Os first home.   
Skipton applied the charge because, when Ms O withdrew the money, she didnt use it to 
buy her first home  she used it to repay a loan.  And I think thats right.
I know Ms O doesnt agree with this.  And I can understand why she believes she used the 
money to buy her house  she had to pay back the relative whod stepped in to help her.  
But Skipton arent given any flexibility in how they apply the rules.  So I cant say they 
applied them unfairly here.
Ive looked closely at the terms and conditions of Skiptons LISA.  They make it clear it will 
be operated according to HMRC regulations.  And paragraph 2.10 on page 6 of the key facts 
says:
If at any time you believe a withdrawal charge has been wrongly made you may apply, 
within 4 years of the charge being made, to HMRC for a refund of the charge.
Id urge Ms O to consider this course.  Because, as Ive explained, I dont think Skipton 
should have dealt with her any differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint about Skipton Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman