DRN-1844801
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that the State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) didnt tell him he needed to 
request a new Personal Identification Number (PIN) when he received a replacement debit 
card.
What happened
Mr J requested a new debit card ahead of a trip abroad. He says he wasnt told that he 
would need to request a new PIN in order to use his new cardwhenhe requested the card 
nor when he visited a branch to enquire about using the card abroad.As a result, he was 
unable to use the card whilst abroadso he had to rely on other cards which incurred charges. 
So, he complained to SBI.
SBI says that:
the covering letter sent with the new card explained that a new PIN number should 
be requested upon safe delivery of the card;
when Mr J visited the branch, the staff answered his specific questions about using 
the card abroad. It says it explained that  whilst abroad, its debit cards can only be 
used in cash machines and the daily withdrawal limit was equivalent to £300. 
the branch staff wouldnt have been aware from this conversation that Mr Js card 
was new or that he had not requested the PIN as per the instructions within the letter 
hed received with the card;
it didnt become aware that Mr J hadnt requested a new PIN until he contacted it 
whilst abroad and was experiencing problems withdrawing cash. 
at this point, it offered Mr J the option to transfer funds from his SBI account to his 
account abroad  but Mr J didnt take up that option.
Considering the above, SBI didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. So, he referred his complaint to 
our service. One of investigators looked into matters, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He 
found that SBI had provided Mr J with clear instructions and steps to follow to get a new PIN 
when the new card had been received.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint afresh. He added 
that he was told that to activate the card he needed to use it  although, it wasnt made clear 
that using the card meant making a cash withdrawal. He says he did use the card to 
request a balance. But he says he was able to do this with his old PIN, so he still wasnt 
aware that a new PIN was needed. 
Our investigator said that Mr J hadnt mentioned a conversation with the branch staff about 
how to activate the card before. But he confirmed that there wasnt any requirement to 
withdraw cash to activate the card. And that making a balance enquiry was enough.
 
 But he asked SBI if it had any records to show Mr J did a balance enquiry with his new card 
 to establish if this couldve been done using his old PIN. But SBI said it had no records of a 
balance enquiry being made on the card around the time in question. And Mr J has told us 
he no longer has any documentary evidence to show that he did either. Overall, our 
investigator still felt SBI had done enough to make Mr J aware that a new PIN was required 
in the covering letter which accompanied the new card. 
As Mr J still didnt accept this, the complaint has come to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr J requested a replacement card or that the card was issued on 18 
September 2019. 
So, Ive firstly considered the information provided in the letter which accompanied the new 
card when it was issued. This says: 
To use your debit card, you will need a Personal Identification Number (PIN). Please call us 
to confirm safe receipt of your debit card and request for your (PIN); which will be sent in a 
separate letter due to security reasons  Once you receive your PIN, you must first use 
your debit card at an ATM machine before you can use it elsewhere to make payments for 
goods or services  Please call us on the following helpline number . (24 hours, 7 days 
a week) to confirm safe receipt of your debit card and request your PIN. 
I think this notice is clear that a new PIN was required to use the new card and what action 
was needed to ensure one was issued.
But Mr J says the branch staff didnt tell him he needed a new PIN when he visited it to 
enquire about using the card abroad. So, Ive thought carefully about this. But Mr J initially 
told us this visit to the branch was to enquire about using the card abroad. And this matches 
the discussion SBI says it had with Mr J at this time  he was told the card could only be 
used in cash machines and the maximum withdrawal was the equivalent to £300. 
Mr J has since said that he also discussed activating the card at this time. And I think its 
possible that Mr J did ask about activating the card. But even so, I dont think a conversation 
about activating the card would have necessarily meant the branch staff should have told Mr 
J he needed to request a new PIN. I think its more likely the branch would have expectedMr 
J to have already followed the instructions in the letter (that accompanied the new card) 
about the need to request a new PIN. 
Overall, like our investigator, I think SBI had done enough to make Mr J aware that he 
needed to call a specific number to confirm safe receipt of the card and request a new PIN.
 
 
 
 Mr J has suggested this process is different to accounts he holds elsewhere. And I accept 
that may be the case. But its not for this service to comment on why a bank may have a 
different process to another bank its for each bank to set its own processes. And we dont 
interfere with such decisions. Here, SBI explained its process is to issue new PINs when 
customers confirm safe receipt of the card. And as mentioned above, I think this was clear in 
the covering letter sent to Mr J with the new card.
After our investigator issued his initial view on Mr Js complaint, Mr J said that he was able to 
use the new card with his old PIN to obtain a balance of account. But as mentioned above 
Mr J is unable to verify his account of this event i.e. he doesn't havea printed balance 
enquiry. And SBI has said it has no record of such a balance enquiry being made. Where 
parties disagree on events and there isnt any documentary evidence to support either side, 
Im required to reach a decision on a balance of probabilities i.e. what I think most likely 
happened. Here, Im not persuaded that Mr J was able to use his old PIN with his new card 
to do a balance enquiry. I say this because SBIs process is clear that a new PIN is required 
to enable the new card to be used. 
Considering all the above, I think that SBI did enough to make Mr J ware that he needed a 
new PIN to use his card and what he needed to do to ensure one was issued to him. So, I 
wont be asking SBI to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman