Page 1 of 5The complaint
 A limited company, which Ill refer to as N, complains that after making two withdrawals from 
its account, Unity Trust Bank Plcs phone call to enquire about the withdrawals was 
conducted poorly. It says during the call its director was harassed, bullied and subjected to 
disability discrimination. 
In bringing the complaint N is represented by the director who received the call, who I refer 
to as Mr S. 
What happened
 In March 2020, £11,500 was transferred from Ns account into two personal accounts 
belonging to Mr S. The transfer was in two tranches: £5,000 and £6,500. Afterwards Ns 
balance stood at £254. 
A day after the transfer, Unity Trust called N and spoke to Mr S. Mr S didnt think the call 
was conducted appropriately because the employee didnt ask any security questions to 
verify to whom he was speaking until many minutes into the call. He says the call was 
aggressive and hostile in tone. 
Unity Trust didnt think they had done anything wrong. They said because of the rise in 
fraudulent activity and online crime, in an attempt to protect their customers, on occasions 
they are contacted to verify payments that are made on their accounts. Although they didnt 
think the call to Mr S was handled unprofessionally, Unity Trust apologized, nonetheless, for 
any distress and inconvenience caused if the questions Mr S was asked were thought to be 
intrusive and werent phrased appropriately. 
N didnt agree with Unity Trusts conclusions and referred its complaint to this service. 
N has told us that the phone call impacted Mr S personally. It explained that Mr S suffers 
from a long-term mental health disability, including depression, PTSD and anxiety. N says 
following the call, Mr S experienced a depressive episode, anxiety and intrusive thoughts 
which lasted nearly two days. 
N believes Unity Trust acted unreasonably and unlawfully and damaged Mr Ss health. 
According to N the way in which the call was conducted amounted disability discrimination 
under s.15 of Equality Act 2010 (the Act). And it thinks that under the pretence of guarding 
against fraudulent activity and online crime Unity Trusts true intention was to create the 
circumstances in which Ns account could be closed either by Unity Trust or N. 
Our investigator acknowledged it was some way into the call before Unity Trusts employee 
asked relevant questions to determine Mr Ss identity. So, he didnt think the call to Mr S was 
handled in accordance with Unity Trusts professional standards. And he didnt doubt Ns 
account that the call impacted Mr Ss mental health. In the circumstances, however, he didnt 
DRN-2476560Page 2 of 5think he could award compensation, let alone anything that might be considered punitive for 
what in effect was the personal impact of the phone call on Mr S. He explained that this was 
because Mr S wasnt Unity Trusts customer for the purposes of our DISP rules and 
therefore he wasnt the eligible complainant. 
In relation to N, who the investigator considered to be the eligible complainant in the 
circumstances of the case the investigator didnt think Unity Trusts actions could fairly be 
said to have caused it financial loss. And because he didnt believe N was prevented from 
conducting its business, he concluded it wasnt inconvenienced or its reputation damaged. 
N didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and on its behalf Mr S has responded with 
detailed submissions. I summarise what I regard as the key points:
The investigator has defined inconvenience much too narrowly. Causing pain, 
suffering or distress to Mr S as director of N while he was managing its affairs, by 
extension, caused N inconvenience. So, an award of compensation is appropriate.
Although the investigator asserts that compensation awards made by the 
ombudsman can't be punitive, there doesnt appear to be anything to that effect in 
the DISP rules. 
Mr S thinks the investigator should also have specifically commented on: 
whether Unity Trust were in breach of the law, regulations, codes of practice or good 
industry practice when they wrongly discussed Ns account without first carrying out 
security checks; and
the tone of the call, how it was conducted and why he felt it was not an unfair way 
to treat Mr S 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Before coming to the substance of my findings, there are a couple general points that are 
worth highlighting at the outset.  
Although as noted above N has made detailed submission to this service, I am going to be 
determining what the relevant issues are in the complaint and explaining the reasoning for 
my decision. What that means is that although I have considered everything N has said I 
wont be commenting on certain aspects of Ns submissions as Ive been asked to do. 
In my opinion the key determining issues in the case are:
Did Unity Trust do anything wrong when in March 2020 they called N and spoke to 
Mr S; if so 
Did it result in financial loss, or distress and inconvenience that our rules allow me to 
award compensation for?
I start with the phone call Mr S received from the employee of Unity Trust in March 2020. 
did Unity Trust do anything wrong in relation to the March 2020 call?Page 3 of 5I appreciate N thinks Unity Trust had other motives for calling it in March 2020 such as to 
possibly engineer the circumstance where it might close its account or Unity Trust doing so. 
But I have seen no persuasive evidence to demonstrate such motives. 
Unity Trust has explained they called N to make sure there was nothing untoward in the two 
payments that were flagged on their systems. They correctly point out that they, as all banks 
do, have a duty to protect customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud. Im 
satisfied when Unity Trust called N they were acting in accordance with their regulatory 
obligations and I do not find they did anything wrong when they did so. 
I next turn to the call itself to which Ive listened very carefully. Mr S is right, there are two 
parts to it. The first part of the call largely comprises a discussion about Ns account. But 
crucially, no security questions were asked to establish Mr Ss identity to make sure the 
employee was speaking to the right person. The call then continued after an initial pause 
during which the employee asked relevant security questions to establish he was speaking 
to the right person  Mr S. 
In the first part of the call Mr S was greeted informally but politely. The employee explained 
hed noticed two payments had taken up a lot of the balance on the account and he 
wondered what the plans were for the account  whether for example there were any plans 
to close it. Mr S explained there was no such plans and that the money was withdrawn 
temporarily because N wanted to do something else with it. 
I am satisfied that this first part of the call was informal, polite and friendly. Mr S didnt seem 
to be disturbed by it as he explained that N had spotted an opportunity to use the money but 
that it might be reinvested with the bank soon. The employee ended that section of the call 
by confirming that wasnt a problem. 
Unity has shared with me on a confidential basis their basic call structure. It supports Mr Ss 
concern that the employee should have but failed to carry out appropriate security checks at 
the start of the call. The employee wouldnt have known for certain that he was speaking 
with the right person before details of Ns account was discussed. The employee acted 
wrongly when he failed to do so until some way into the call. 
I turn next to the second part of the call when the employee tried to find out the purpose of 
the withdrawals. It went as follows. 
 
Mr S  Why are you asking what the reason is?
Employee  No we just wanted to know why, obviously you had money going in and now its 
close to a nil balance  so just wanted to know.
Mr S  its not at a nil balance, its a £250 balance
Employee   but its quite a dramatic decrease from what the usual balance is. If you dont 
feel like you want to give me a reason thats absolutely fine. 
Mr S  We, I dont feel, and sorry Im not trying to be difficult, perhaps I am, I dont feel the 
need to explain the way we chose to use our money- have you got a problem with the way 
were using our money? 
Employee  No, No, No Not at all. I was just trying to understand the activity on the account 
so that the bank can know what to expect and what can happen in the future sort of thing but 
if you feel., thats absolutely finePage 4 of 5Mr S  well if what you are saying is that your concern is were winding down the account 
and want to use an account, another account thats not our plan at the moment. No. 
Employee  OK thats fine. 
Mr S  so you know, you have to take your own view about that as well I suppose, but were 
a going concern and continuing to function as we normally do we just decided to do 
something else temporarily with our money 
Employee   No problem, no problem I appreciate your time anyway , Ill leave you to it. 
Sorry to trouble you. 
Mr S  well thanks very much indeed for your call its nice to know that we attract your 
attention from time to time 
Employee   Yes its just obviously to make sure everything is ok basically 
Mr S  Everything is absolutely fine as far as were concerned 
Employee  Brilliant, fantastic, well thanks it good to hear {Mr S} Ill let you get on with your 
day thanks for your time 
Mr  S  thanks a lot bye 
Employee bye.
The second part of the call didnt go so well in the sense that Mr S wasnt happy with the line 
of questions about why the two withdrawals were made from Ns account. Mr S was 
concerned by the call and didnt think the banks line of questioning was appropriate. Like 
the investigator I do not doubt he found the call distressing. But I note that in its submissions 
to us N says this: 
In our view, the second part of the call could reasonably be described as verifying payment 
details, following regulatory guidelines and handled to the expected professional 
standard.
I agree with Ns assessment. When considered in its totality, apart from omitting to ask 
security questions at the start of the call, important though that was, Im satisfied the 
employee was patient and professional throughout. I have not been persuaded that any 
aspect of the call was aggressive or bullying in tone as it has been described by N. It follows 
I cannot reasonably conclude that any upset that may have been caused to Mr S was 
because the employee conducted the call in the way N has described. 
did Unity Trusts actions result in financial loss, or distress and inconvenience that our rules 
allow me to award?
As I noted above the employee of Unity Trust didnt ask the security questions he should 
have done at the start of the call. So, I next consider whether this caused N inconvenience.
I agree with the investigator that N, as a limited company cannot be distressed. But it can be 
inconvenienced. And to this extent I agree with Mr S that in circumstances where as a result 
of something a bank has done wrong it causes the director of the company to become 
unable to properly conduct the companys affairs, then that company can, by extension be 
inconvenienced. Page 5 of 5In relation to their treatment of Mr S, N says Unity Trust has breached the Act. And of 
course, disability is a protected characteristic under it  and I accept, based on what N has 
said, that Mr S has a disability. 
But its worth pointing out that my role isnt to decide whether there has been a breach of the 
Act as this is something for the courts to decide. My role is to decide this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Although I do nonetheless, 
accept that when deciding what is fair and reasonable, I have to take account of any relevant 
law, which the Act is  and I have done so. 
Mr S has specifically referred me to the legal prohibition on discrimination arising from a 
disability  which is where one person treats another unfavourably because of something 
arising in consequence of a disability. 
Ive already explained why  the security check apart  I dont think the call was 
inappropriately handled. And Ive borne the Act in mind in making that finding. What Unity 
Trust did wrong was to omit asking relevant security questions at the start of the call in 
March 2020.  And for a moment the employee did discuss details of Ns account without 
verifying the identity of the person to whom he was speaking. 
But I bear in mind the employee didnt carry on with the call to its conclusion without 
conducting the security check. Probably, having realised his mis-step, he paused after a few 
minutes and asked the appropriate security questions. And in the circumstances, its relevant 
to also note that in terms of the severity of the banks fault, the employee had been speaking 
to the correct person  Mr S rather than a third party unconnected to N. 
On balance Im not satisfied this error  the failure to ask security questions  caused N any 
inconvenience. Nor for that matter have I been persuaded the severity of the banks fault 
was such that I could reasonably conclude Mr S was so distressed as to be unable to 
conduct Ns affairs and thereby caused it to be inconvenienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman