DRN-2738036
The complaint
Mr Y and Ms K complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) gave them 
incorrect information about the amount they could borrow when they ported their mortgage. 
To avoid losing their sale and purchase they applied to another lender. Mr Y and Ms K ask 
that Platform refunds their early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr Y and Ms K had a mortgage with Platform. They wanted to move and spoke to Platform 
about porting their mortgage and increasing their borrowing. They say Platform didnt tell 
them theyd need to speak to a different team to make a formal application. And they werent 
told that because of the amount they wanted to borrow theyd need a 15% deposit: theyd 
been told they only needed a 10% deposit. By the time they knew this theyd agreed to sell 
their property and had an offer accepted for a property they wanted to buy.
Mr Y and Ms K didnt want to lose their sale and purchase and decided to apply elsewhere. 
They paid an ERC of about £14,000, which they say they funded by borrowing from family.
Our investigator said while Platform gave Mr Y and Ms K incorrect information it put this right 
quickly. He said it was Mr Y and Ms Ks decision to go ahead with their sale and purchase 
and apply elsewhere. He didnt think Platform had caused delays when dealing with Mr Y 
and Ms Ks requests. The investigator said Platforms offer of £350 compensation was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Y and Ms K didnt agree. In summary, they said theyd been given incorrect information 
for about 12 months, and Platform should have told them they needed a higher deposit 
sooner. They said they needed to move and couldnt risk losing their sale. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y and Ms K re-mortgaged with Platform and took out a fixed interest rate product. This 
included an ERC which applied until November 2022, although the amount of the ERC 
reduced each year up to then. The ERC was set out in the mortgage offer and Mr Y and 
Ms K agreed to it when they took out the mortgage. 
Mr Y and Ms Ks interest rate product was portable  it could be transferred to a mortgage 
on another property. If the product was ported the ERC would be waived. The mortgage 
offer says porting is subject to Platforms lending criteria. Mr Y and Ms K also wanted to 
increase their borrowing. However, before making a porting application Mr Y and Ms K were 
told they needed a 15% deposit. As they didnt have this they applied elsewhere.
Mr Y and Ms Ks mortgage was repaid in early September 2019. I think Platform was 
entitled, under the mortgage terms, to apply the ERC. Mr Y and Ms K say that because they 
were given incorrect information by Platform it should refund the ERC. While there might be 
circumstances in which Id find it reasonable to require a lender to waive or refund an ERC, 
thats not the case here. Ive explained why below.
Did Platform make an error?
Mr Y and Ms K had spoken to Platform a number of times between mid-2018 and mid-2019 
about moving house and porting their mortgage. In early June 2019 Mr Y and Ms K asked 
Platform how much they could borrow. Platform also told them what ERC would be payable 
if they went elsewhere.
Mr Y and Ms K found a property and called Platform again on 25 and 26 June 2019. They 
gave Platform the purchase price and the deposit they had available. Platform said they 
were eligible for the borrowing they wanted and confirmed this in writing. Mr Y and Ms K had 
a similar discussion on 1 July 2019, when Platform confirmed theyd need a 10% deposit. It 
made an appointment for them with a mortgage adviser. 
During the mortgage advice appointment on 5 July 2019 the mortgage advisor told Mr Y and 
Ms K that they could only borrow 85% of the property value as their total borrowing would 
exceed £500,000. They needed a 15% deposit.
I think Platform made an error here. Mr Y and Ms K called in June 2019 to ask how much 
they could borrow. Platform knew they wanted to borrow more than £500,000. It should have 
told Mr Y and Ms K theyd need a larger deposit.
What was the effect of Platforms error?
Mr Y and Ms K didnt meet Platforms lending criteria to port their mortgage and increase 
their borrowing to buy the property theyd made an offer for. The combination of the amount 
they wanted to borrow and the loan to value was outside Platforms lending criteria. So, if 
Mr Y and Ms K wanted to buy this property (or one of similar value), they were always going 
to need to apply to another lender. The error Platform made was not telling them this sooner.
I appreciate that Mr Y and Ms K had been thinking of moving for some time. But they didnt 
confirm having offers in place for their sale and purchase, or the purchase price of the 
property they wanted to buy, until 26 June 2019. So its likely this was the start of their sale 
and purchase process. Platform gave Mr Y and Ms K correct information about the deposit 
theyd need on 5 July 2019  the following week. Its unlikely Mr Y and Ms K exchanged 
contracts to buy a property without a mortgage offer. They could have changed their minds 
at this point.
Mr Y and Ms K said in their complaint they werent told theyd need to speak to another team 
to make an application. Theyd re-mortgaged with Platform in 2017 and I think theyd have 
known that a mortgage application involves more than a phone call. I think theyd reasonably 
have known for instance that Platform would ask for evidence of income and expenditure 
(especially as they were increasing their borrowing) and require a valuation of the property. 
From what Mr Y and Ms K have said, it had taken some time to sell their property and theyd 
accepted an offer that was lower than theyd hoped for. Theyve said they needed to move 
from that property so I can appreciate that they didnt want to lose their sale.
The problem here was that Platform wouldnt lend the amount Mr Y and Ms K wanted to 
borrow without a larger deposit  which they didnt have. If Mr Y and Ms K wanted to port 
their mortgage the only option was for them to find a cheaper property to buy. Mr Y and Ms K might have looked at properties in a different price range if theyd been given 
correct information sooner. And I understand that by this point theyd found a property and 
had an offer accepted. But this isnt the same as being committed to go ahead, or not having 
any option but to do so. Platform gave Mr Y and Ms K correct information about the deposit 
theyd need only a short time after theyd confirmed offers had been accepted for their sale 
and purchase. 
I can see that Mr Y and Ms K had a difficult decision to make. They had to weigh the benefits 
and costs of going ahead with their sale and purchase and applying to another lender. Or 
find a cheaper property so they could apply to port their mortgage with Platform. Ultimately 
though it was their decision to apply to another lender.
Having taken all of the circumstances into account, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Platform to refund the ERC. 
Putting things right
It must have been disappointing for Mr Y and Ms K to find out theyd have to apply for a 
mortgage elsewhere, especially when theyd called Platform a number of times to check 
what they could borrow. I think its right that Platform offered compensation for the upset this 
caused. I think £350 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Platform sent a cheque to Mr Y and Ms K which they didnt cash and which has now expired. 
It says it will arrange a bank transfer if Mr Y and Ms K provide bank details. 
My final decision
My decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Platform) should pay £350 to Mr Y 
and Ms K, as it offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman