DRN-3034175
The complaint
Ms C complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance reported defaults 
on her credit file despite her having entered into an agreed payment deferral.  
What happened
In May 2018 Ms c was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Motonovo.
In August 2020 Ms C contacted Motonovo to request a payment holiday for 3 months. This 
was approved. In November 2020 Ms c asked it she could extend the payment holiday for a 
further 3 months. Motonovo agreed the extension and advised Ms C that it would be for 
December 2020, January 2021 and February 2021.
However, in January 2021 Motonovo attempted to collect a direct debit payment from Ms C. 
The direct debit was returned and as a result, Motonovo paced d payment marker on Ms Cs 
credit file.
Ms C complained. Motonovo acknowledged that it had made an error. It apologised for poor 
customer service and paid compensation of £50. Motonovo said it would remove the 
payment marker and confirmed that Ms Cs direct debits would start again in March 2021.
Ms C wasnt happy with the response. She says that her credit score has been impacted by 
the payment marker, which has led to her credit card provider reducing her credit limit. She 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said he could see that Ms Cs credit limit on her credit card was reduced 
around the time that Motonovo placed the payment marker on her credit file. He was 
satisfied that Motonovos error had caused further problems for Ms C and said Motonovo 
should pay further compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms 
C. 
Motonovo didnt agree. It said it had amended Ms Cs credit file appropriately and didnt think 
the payment marker had affected Ms C because she hadnt applied for any new finance 
during the time the marker was on her credit file. It said it didnt think that a payment marker 
would result in a decrease to a  credit limit and asked to see evidence of this.
This service shared the evidence Ms C had provided about the credit limit decrease. I 
response, Motonovo said that Ms C had a financial association with another person which 
might have impacted on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Motonovo has acknowledge that it made an error when it recorded a payment marker on Ms 
Cs credit file. I can see that it has since corrected the error.
The issue here is about the impact the error has had on Ms C. Shes explained that her 
credit limit on her credit card was reduced, which in turn led to problems making purchases 
and payments for her business.
Ive looked at Ms Cs credit report. This shows that there was no adverse information  other 
than the payment marker reported by Motonovo  which was likely to have affected her 
credit score. Ive also looked at Ms Cs credit card statements from the relevant time. These 
show a decrease in her credit limit. Ive also seen a letter from Ms Cs credit card provider 
which says that having received credit referencing information, it thought she was having 
trouble paying her accounts and was reducing her credit limit
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Ms Cs credit limit was reduced as a result of 
the payment marker reported by Motonovo. In the circumstances, and given the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms C, I dont think Motonovos offer of compensation was fair.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Motonovo should pay compensation of £200 to Ms C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo 
Finance must pay further compensation of £200 to Ms C.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman