DRN-4475291
The complaint
Mr H complains about cancellation of his motor insurance policy by his insurer, esure 
Insurance Limited (esure).
References to esure in this decision include their agents.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr H purchased a new vehicle and needed to insure it through a new policy. 
He contacted esure to ask them to cancel his existing policy, under which he was paying a 
monthly premium. However, esure didnt cancel the first policy, continuing to take monthly 
premiums for both policies. In respect of the original policy Mr H asked to be cancelled, 
esure took two payments, one in August 2022 (£125.98) and one in September 2022 
(£125.90) making a total of £251.88.
Unhappy at what happened, Mr H complained to esure. In their final response, dated 
November 2022, they said that while they provided their staff with training and support, it 
was disappointing Mr H had been misadvised when he contacted them to change his policy 
cover. Esure said they would ask Mr H to contact them to arrange a refund of the two 
payments theyd deducted in respect of his old policy.
However, due to a clerical error, esure didnt action the refund. Mr H then complained to this 
Service. He was unhappy at, in effect, having two policies and being told he would be 
refunded one of the policies. Hed lost out financially and been taken into an overdraft 
position from esure taking funds from his account, meaning hed incurred overdraft fees. He 
wanted esure to reimburse him for the sum theyd taken and compensate him for financial 
difficulty hed been put in and the time and effort hed had to make dealing with the issue.
When responding to our investigators request for information about the case, esure offered 
to refund the two payments taken incorrectly, together with interest at a rate of 8% simple 
from the date the two payments were made to the date of refund. They also offered £200 in 
compensation to Mr H. However, Mr H didnt think this sufficient for the stress and 
inconvenience hed suffered and the financial impact by being unable to pay bills, going into 
debt and having to borrow money from relatives. He thought £3,000 would be fair 
compensation for the disruption and distress hed suffered. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding esure hadnt acted fairly. Theyd taken two 
payments from Mr Hs account, which he said pushed him into an overdraft position and left 
him unable to pay other bills and had a substantial impact on his financial position and 
wellbeing. However, in the absence of bank statements from Mr H, the investigator couldnt 
confirm the extent of any overdraft or associated fees. esure had upheld Mr Hs complaint 
and the investigator thought their offer to repay £251.88 plus interest from the date the 
payments were taken was fair. However, the investigator didnt think esures offer of £200 
compensation was fair, given it had taken a year for Mr H to have the payments refunded. 
The investigator thought £350 compensation would be fair and reasonable.
esure accepted the investigators view. Mr H responded to provide further information about 
his financial position, including bank statements. Based on the further information, the 
investigator issued a second view in which she concluded esure should reimburse Mr H 
£20.91 in respect of overdraft charges she calculated Mr H had been charged.
esure accepted the investigators second view, but Mr H disagreed. He said esures taking of 
the payments had a lasting impact on his finances, particularly his being unable to meet a 
demand in respect of Council Tax. He provided further information on this point, but the 
investigator didnt accept it, as it indicated issues before esure took their payments. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators further view and asked an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint. He didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient for the trouble and stress 
from what had happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether esure have acted fairly towards Mr H.
The key issue in Mr Hs complaint is esure taking two monthly payments in respect of the 
policy he asked them to cancel, totalling £251.88. Mr H says this pushed him into an 
overdraft position, causing him financial difficulties  hes specifically referred to a monthly 
Council Tax direct debit his bank declined shortly after the second payment taken by esure. 
In turn, Mr H says this led to the local council taking enforcement action against him, causing 
him further financial difficulty as well as distress and inconvenience.
esure accept they made a mistake in taking the two payments and then not arranging for 
them to be refunded. Theyve offered to refund the two payments, with interest from the date 
they took the payments to the date of the refund. Theyve also offered £200 compensation.
When considering the case, Ive noted esure accept they made a mistake, so the issue 
becomes one of whether theyve done enough to put things right for Mr H. Ive also 
considered carefully what Mr H has said about the impact the two payments had on his 
financial position as well as the impact of the stress and inconvenience caused to him.
In looking at what happened, from bank statements and other information provided by Mr H, 
shortly after the two payments were made, theres a screenshot indicating a monthly Council 
Tax direct debit was declined by the bank concerned. Which would appear to have been the 
result of the two payments taken by esure putting Mr H over his agreed overdraft limit  
although the bank statements show the balance was within the agreed overdraft position 
after the second payment was taken. Ive noted the account for which Mr H provided bank 
statements was already in an overdraft position before the two payments taken by esure.
Mr H has also provided evidence of his local council taking enforcement action in respect of 
Council Tax arrears. However, the details indicate enforcement action was taken in July 
2022 in respect of Council Tax owed for the period April 2022 to March 2023 - so before 
esure took the two payments. Theres also a subsequent document dated August 2022 
(between the dates of the two payments taken by esure) setting out a Council Tax 
repayment plan, with one payment in September 2022, followed by six monthly repayments 
from October 2022 and one payment in April 2023. The repayment plan totals £2,565 plus 
enforcement costs of £112 (a total of £2,677).What this indicates is that Mr H was already in arrears at the point esure took the two 
payments, before the failed direct debit. While esures two payments look to have led to the 
direct debit not being paid, that was for one monthly payment  not what appear to be 
arrears dating from before esure took the two payments.
So, Ive concluded that while esure taking the two payments appears to have led to one 
monthly direct debit not being paid, they cant reasonably be held responsible for the total 
arrears for which enforcement action was taken by the local council.
esure have offered to refund the two payments (£251.88) plus interest at a rate of 8% simple 
from the date of the two payments being taken to the date they refund the payments. 
Considering the circumstances of the case, Ive concluded thats fair and reasonable.
Ive also noted Mr Hs bank account was in credit by November 2022.
But as esures two payments appear to have taken him over his agreed overdraft position, 
then he will have incurred fees and charges for a period. Ive looked at the calculation made 
by our investigator, and I think £20.91 is a fair and reasonable estimate of the sum involved. 
In the circumstances, Ive concluded it fair and reasonable esure pay this amount to Mr H.
Ive then considered the issue of compensation, esure offered £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H from what had happened, in addition to 
refunding the two payments. However, given the length of time taken to reach that position, I 
think a higher award is appropriate. Taking account of all the circumstances, I think £350 
would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr H the two payments taken (£251.88) plus interest at a rate of 8% simple 
from the date the payments were taken to the date they refund the payments to Mr H.
Pay Mr H £20.91 in respect of overdraft fees and interest charges.
Pay Mr H £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
This is on the assumption esure Insurance Limited have not already paid Mr H these sums.
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman