DRN-3282022
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont let her make payments to her credit card 
account over the telephone. 
What happened
Mrs N holds a Santander credit account. Before the Covid-19 pandemic began, Mrs N would 
use her Santander credit account rarely and would then visit a branch of Santander to make 
any payments that were due. However, following the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
Mrs N was unable to do this, given that suffers from severe respiratory problems which 
meant that she was considered as being high risk and vulnerable to Covid-19.
Mrs N asked Santander to allow her to make payments to her account over the telephone 
using a debit card. Santander explained that because Mrs N didnt hold a Santander current 
account that they were unable to offer this option. Mrs N wasnt happy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs Ns complaint. They confirmed that they didnt offer the facility for 
non-Santander current account holders to make payments over the telephone by debit card, 
and they confirmed the alternative options that were available to Mrs N on the account. 
Mrs N wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Santander 
had acted unfairly and they noted that Santander had also advised Mrs N of how she may be 
able to make payments to her Santander credit account over the telephone by calling the 
bank with whom she held her current account. So, they didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Mrs N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate, given the emergence of Covid-19 and Mrs Ns high risk status because of 
her respiratory health issues, why Mrs N wouldnt want to make payments to her account in 
branch but instead wanted to make payments on the telephone, using her debit card.
It isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business such as Santander as to how they 
should operate, including what channels of payment that business will accept on specific 
products, as these are matters which its at the discretion of the business to decide. What I 
can consider is whether, by confirming to Mrs N that she isnt able to make payments to her 
account in the manner that she would like, Santander have acted fairly towards Mrs N.
In this instance, Mrs N didnt hold a current account with Santander and so was wanting to 
make payments over the telephone using a debit card linked to a current account that she 
holds with another bank. But its never been the case that Santander have accepted 
payments to the credit account over the telephone from non-Santander issued debit cards. 
And so, I dont feel that I can reasonably say that Santander have acted unfairly towards Mrs 
N by maintaining that position, even in consideration of Mrs Ns health issues.
One reason I say this is because Santander provide several other channels for Mrs to make 
payments towards the account without having to visit branch. These include by direct debit, 
standing order, or bank transfer, as well as by online payment.
Im aware that Mrs N has a strong preference for making payments over the telephone, and 
that she struggles to set up arrangements such as those described above. To that effect, I 
note that Santander have explained to Mrs N how she may be able to make payments by 
telephone by calling the bank with whom she holds her current account, as well as offering 
to talk Mrs N through an application for a Santander current account so that she could use it 
to make payments to her Santander credit account over the telephone as she would like.
These alternative options dont seem unreasonable to me, and Im satisfied that they do 
provide Mrs N with fair alternatives to her preferred method of payment  over the telephone 
using her non-Santander debit account  which as explained above, Im satisfied that it isnt 
unfair of Santander to continue to not accept.
Mrs N may ask why Santander can accept payments from Santander current accounts and 
not from non-Santander current accounts. The reason is because when the payment is 
made its paid from the current account to the credit account  the transaction is made from 
the current account. And it isnt the case that the money is taken from the current account by 
the credit account  which isnt something thats possible for the Santander credit account. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs N was wanting, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I 
hope that Mrs N will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman