DRN-3046295
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Specialist Lending Limited trading a Duologi is responsible for a loan 
agreement she didnt know shed entered into and wont let her cancel it.  
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs O purchased an online educational course and entered into a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Duologi. Mrs O said she entered into the agreement on the 
understanding that it was a pay monthly course and she could cancel at any time. But when 
she tried to cancel the course, Duologi advised her that she couldnt cancel because she 
had entered into a loan agreement. Mrs O complained and said she wasnt aware that shed 
entered into a loan agreement and that shed been told by the salesperson that she could 
cancel at any time. Duologi said that based on the documents signed by Mrs O, she would 
have been aware that she was entering into a loan agreement. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. In that, I explained that whilst Mrs O 
may well have signed loan documents, it was important to look at what had happened before 
those documents were signed. In that regard, I said I was persuaded that the salesperson 
told Mrs O that she could cancel at any time. I was satisfied that there had been a 
misrepresentation and said that Duologi must accept responsibility for that.
The case has been returned to me to review once more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O didnt respond to my provisional decision. Duologi responded and said I had placed 
extra weight on Mrs Os testimony as opposed to the contractual documents, and that in the 
event of such a deadlock, the contractual documents should be given the most weight. It 
also said that Mrs O had a responsibility to read the document before signing. Duologi said it 
would like to challenge my decision but didnt think it was likely that its comments would 
make a difference, and said it was therefore arranging the settlement that I had 
recommended. It said it didnt want the course materials or the laptop back and that Mrs O 
was free to keep these or dispose of them as she saw fit.
Ive taken Duologis comments into account, but my view hasnt changed. It follows that Ive 
reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Duologi must
Cap Mrs Os liability for the loan at the sum of repayments due at the date she asked to 
cancel. Anything above this should be written off.
If Mrs O has paid more than the capped liability, these payments should be refunded along 
with 8% simple interest from the date she made each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
If Mrs O has paid less than the capped liability, an affordable repayment plan must be 
arranged for the balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information from Mrs Os credit file and mark the agreement as settled 
from the date she asked to cancel. If Mrs O has not paid up to the capped liability, Duologi 
doesnt have to mark the loan as settled until Mrs O has paid up to the cap. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi 
must take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman