DRN-1733687
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr E and Miss W say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 1996 Mr E and Miss W took out PPI around the same time as applying for a mortgage 
during a branch meeting. 
The policy provided protection for Mr E and Miss W's mortgage payments in the event Mr E - 
the policy was in his sole name - couldn't work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy also paid an additional monthly benefit of £3 for every £1,000 of 
borrowing taken at the outset The policy would pay out for up to 12 months per claim and it 
cost around £15 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr E was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full followed by six months' half pay. He said he had redundancy pay and could've 
relied on his partner to make their repayments if he wasn't working. He said he was in good 
health at the time.
Lloyds records show the mortgage account ended in 2006.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr E and Miss W chose to take out the cover without undue pressure. And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for Mr E.
Because Mr E and Miss W disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr E and Miss W's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr E and Miss W were hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Mr E and Miss W have a choice about PPI? 
did they agree to take it out?Mr E and Miss W say they were told they needed to take out PPI with their mortgage - they 
were put under undue pressure to take it. While they've not given much detail about what 
happened, I've nevertheless thought about this carefully to see if there's evidence to support 
what they say.
Lloyds hasn't got all the paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isn't surprising given 
things happened over 20 years ago - it's also more than 10 years since the mortgage ended. 
Lloyds has provided Mr E and Miss W's mortgage application and mortgage agreement. 
Looking firstly at the application, the only reference to PPI was towards the end where it 
asked the applicant to tick a box if they hadn't been given information about certain things 
including PPI (it's not clear from the copy where the tick boxes were or if any boxes are 
ticked.) But it didn't say or imply here that PPI was a requirement - it only said that buildings 
insurance was a condition of the lending. And looking at the mortgage agreement this also 
didn't make any reference to PPI.
Based on the way the mortgage application referred to PPI, I think it's likely a separate 
application and perhaps direct debit was needed to take it out. But unfortunately this isn't 
now available.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale - I'll talk about this in more detail below - so I think it's 
likely the adviser would've encouraged Mr E and Miss W to take out PPI because they 
considered it was right for them. But I've not seen enough to persuade me that the adviser 
went further than this and unfairly took away Mr E and Miss W's real choice about things.
So, while I've listened carefully to what Mr E and Miss W say happened, given the limited 
evidence about an event that took place many years ago, I can't fairly say that Lloyds more 
likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being optional or that Mr E and Miss W were 
pressured to take it out.
the advice
As I referred to above, Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr E and Miss W.  This 
means Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, as the policyholder Mr E was 
eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by any of the significant exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances; and he and Miss W seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr E says he was entitled to more than six months' sick pay. But the policy would've paid out 
in addition to this - and for longer than Mr E's full sick pay would've lasted. So if Mr E found 
himself unable to work for an extended period I think it could've played a useful part in 
helping Mr E and Miss W to keep up with their mortgage payments at what would likely be a 
difficult and perhaps uncertain time - I think it would've ultimately helped them protect their 
home. 
Mr E also says they could've relied on Miss W's income. But it doesn't appear they had any 
savings to fall back on. So I think at the point Mr E's sick pay halved or if he lost his job, they 
would have likely come under some financial strain. So I still think Mr E and Miss W had a 
need cover -  I don't think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended it. 
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr E 
and Miss W about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think 
they likely chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And as I said above it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for them - so it seems like it would have 
been useful for them if something went wrong. At around £15 a month it also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr E and Miss W 
off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Lloyds might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when 
it sold Mr E and Miss W PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time I think the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them. And because it wasn't wrong for them or differed significantly 
from what I think they expected of it based on what they were likely told, I don't think better 
information would've put them off taking it out.
This means I dont think Mr E and Miss W have lost out as a result of having PPI, so Lloyds 
doesn't have to pay back to Mr E and Miss W what they paid for it.
Ive thought about everything Mr E and Miss W have said. But these points dont change my 
decision. For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've detailed above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman