DRN-3685367
The complaint
Mr A complains of end of lease charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS). He disputes these charges and would like compensation for the distress 
and  inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions
The first inspection of a vehicle on collection is a basic inspection and charges are 
not specified at this time. I cant be sure what the inspector told Mr A at this 
inspection. But as its standard practice to complete a second detailed inspection after 
the car has been collected I would be surprised if, on collection, Mr A was absolutely 
assured not charges would be applied
The contract Mr A signed includes information on the Vehicle Returns Standards 
(VRS) . These explain that when the vehicle is returned a VRS inspection will be 
carried out by trained technician at a nominated centre. So, I think Mr A would have 
been aware that there would be a further inspection. 
I do understand Mr As concern that the initial charges were reduced from £1,892.07 
to £790  that is a considerable difference. In its final response letter MBFS 
explained that it removed some charges for damage that hadnt been identified on 
collection and couldnt be clearly identified in the images on the second inspection.  I 
think MBFS acted correctly in reviewing the charges when Mr A complained and 
removing some charges which it couldnt clearly evidence. 
I have looked at the outstanding charges. Our investigator compared them to the 
British Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guide 
which is an industry wide standard document and, detailed each charge comparing 
them to the BVRLA guidelines, so  I am not going to repeat that information here. 
However, I have looked at the charges and agree with our investigator that the 
outstanding charges are fair. So, I have  no grounds to ask  MBFS to waive any of 
the outstanding charges
Finally, Mr A has told us he has found dealing with this issue time consuming and 
stressful. I do appreciate putting in a complaint is stressful; it is also  time consuming 
for both parties. But that doesnt automatically mean compensation is appropriate. In 
this case as I havent found MBFS to be at fault I cant reasonably ask it to 
compensate Mr A
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman