DRN-2928397
The complaint
Mr I complains about problems he experienced with HSBC UK Bank Plc after it refunded 
payments he made to his credit card.
 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr I made a direct payment to repay his credit card balance in full. 
Around the same time, Mr Is direct debit payment was also claimed by HSBC. 
Mr I spoke with HSBC on 23 January 2021 and he was advised his credit card was in credit 
by around £2,450. HSBC arranged a refund. But a month later the direct debit payment 
applied to Mr Is credit card in December 2020 was reversed and HSBC asked him to repay 
it. Mr I cleared the balance in April 2021. 
Mr I complained and HSBC apologised and offered him £200. Mr I referred his complaint to 
this service and an investigator looked at what had happened. They thought HSBC had dealt 
with Mr Is complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr I asked to appeal and said 
he didnt think the compensation HSBC offered was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties broadly agree about the timeline and key events in this case. I can see Mr I made 
two separate payments and was given the wrong information when he called to get a refund. 
I agree Mr I has been inconvenienced by what happened and that the service provided by 
HSBC fell short. I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Is complaint. 
I think its fair to say theres been no financial loss in this case. Whilst Mr I had to make up 
the December 2020 payment in April 2021, it was money HSBC refunded to him. And Mr I 
used the credit card in question, building up a balance of around £2,450. As Mr I had the 
benefit of the funds spent using his credit card, I think its fair that HSBC asked him to repay 
the incorrectly refunded amount once the error was identified. 
I can see Mr I had to make a number of calls to HSBC and dont doubt the issue caused him 
some inconvenience. HSBC has apologised for the problems Mr I has raised and offered 
him £200 to resolve his complaint. In response to the investigator Mr I pointed out that he 
doesnt feel the existing offer is enough or a fair way to resolve his complaint. I understand 
compensation is somewhat subjective and appreciate Mr I feels the existing settlement 
doesnt go far enough. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr I but I dont agree. In my view, £200 fairly reflects the impact 
of the issues raised on Mr I and is very much in line with what I wouldve told HSBC to pay 
had no offer been made. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mr Is complaint fairly and has 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase 
its offer or take any further action. I leave it to Mr I to decide whether he wishes to accept 
HSBCs offer. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman