DRN-1541092
The complaint
Mr W complains about the amount that Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as 
Quotemehappy.com) (Aviva) has offered him after his car was written off, and he claimed 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ws car was insured under a motor insurance policy with Aviva. In September 2019 his 
car was involved in an accident and he claimed under his policy. In view of the extent of the 
damage Aviva said it would treat this as a total loss.
Mr Ws policy said The most we will pay will be the market value of your car at the time of 
the loss. It defined market value as The cost of replacing your car with one of the same 
make, model, specification and condition.
Aviva assessed the market value of Mr Ws car as £2,370, which it later increased to £2,500. 
Mr W refused this and told Aviva he was looking for a figure in the region of £3,500. Aviva 
referred his claim to its senior technical engineer. After consulting three trade guides, and 
researching the market place for similar vehicles, he said he couldnt justify any increase 
above the previous valuation of £2,500.
Aviva offered to pay this amount without prejudice to his claim to enable Mr W to proceed 
with replacing his car. He declined this offer and complained to us. He said hed bought the 
car in a private sale in June 2018 for £2,700 after a long search; having viewed many 
examples of this model of car none were as good as his car.
He said the model was particularly prone to chassis rust, but this car was clean. The 
specification was particularly good, it was low mileage for its age, had been regularly 
serviced with a good MOT history, and was in excellent condition throughout.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said he had 
consulted four trade guides in all. Taking into consideration the cars mileage, and its 
good/clean condition, this produced the following valuations:
Guide A - £2,370
Guide B - £2,175
Guide C - £2,375
Guide D - £2,775
The average of the four Guide figures was £2,423.75. The offer Aviva had made was in line 
with this figure. 
The investigator said he had also looked at advertisements for similar cars for sale. We 
tended to place less reliance on these, as they represented prices sellers were seeking. 
However, advertisements he had found were broadly in line with Avivas offer. Taking 
account of all Mr W had said about his car, the investigator thought Avivas offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that:
the trade guide figures represented average values for this type and age of car, but 
his car, because of its condition, was worth more than average;
he had looked, but was unable to buy a replacement car of similar condition for the 
£2,500 Aviva had offered; and
he thought the investigator didnt understand the market for this model of car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has said, in this situation it isnt our role to provide an exact valuation of a 
vehicle, but to determine whether or not the insurer has made an offer which is reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Our investigator checked the information Mr W had provided about the car against the trade 
guides. The figures he found were in line with Avivas offer. He also looked at current 
advertisements for similar cars offered for sale. He said these were also broadly in line with 
Avivas offer.
I understand that Mr W feels strongly that his car had a higher market value than would be 
normal for the reasons he has stated. So I have also looked carefully at current 
advertisements for similar cars.
Although there are many used cars of this model for sale, I didnt find an exact replica of 
Mr Ws car. The cars available vary in age, specification, mileage and condition. The prices 
of the cars also represent the sellers asking prices and so can be expected to be more than 
would actually be achieved on a sale. It is now also some 12 months after the date of the 
accident.
Having considered carefully all that Mr W has said, I dont think the asking prices I have 
seen indicate a market value for Mr Ws car in September 2019 markedly out of line with the 
offer Aviva has made. So I dont think Aviva has treated Mr W unreasonably.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Aviva Insurance 
Limited (trading as Quotemehappy.com).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman