DRN-2684081
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) failed to notify him when his first credit card payment was due. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M successfully applied for a new credit card with Amex. Mr M has told us he 
has another Amex credit card that is settled in full each month via a direct debit. 
Amex says that as part of the application process, Mr M agreed correspondence would be 
made available online and via its app. 
Mr M began to use the card and Amex sent him an email on 3 August 2020 Amex sent him 
an email to say his statement was ready to view. Amexs statement said Mr M needed to 
make a payment by 28 August 2020. 
The payment wasnt made by 28 August 2020 so interest became payable on the 
outstanding balance and Amex applied a £12 late fee. Amex also reported a missed 
payment on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M has pointed out that as soon as he became aware of the 
missed payment he cleared the balance in full. 
Mr M complained and Amex agreed to refund the late payment fee and half the interest he 
was charged as a gesture of goodwill. But Amex didnt agree to remove the missed payment 
it has reported or refund the remaining interest. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt find that Amex had made an error so didnt ask it to do anything else. 
In response, Mr M said that Amex had failed to notify him of the payment due date prior to 
charging fees and interest. Mr M also said Amex had failed to notify him it had started to 
apply interest and charges. Mr L said he didnt know he had to log into his online account 
and that Amex had failed to tell him when his payment due date was. Mr L says he hasnt 
opted out of receiving payment alerts from Amex. Mr M says that if Amex had made the due 
date clear he wouldve made the payment on time. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr M for the level of detail hes given in his submissions and correspondence 
with the investigator. Ive read and considered everything Mr M has told us and understand 
the basis on which he complains. I can see Mr M feels Amex didnt make it clear when his 
first credit card payment was due and that it failed to send him notifications he expected to 
receive. I dont doubt Mr M fully intended to make his credit card payment on time and clear 
the outstanding balance as he claims. But, I need to be fair to both sides and consider 
whether Amex has made a mistake or treated Mr M unfairly. 
Amex has provided a screen shot from its application system that shows, to proceed, Mr M 
had to agree that documents would be made available online. Amex has sent in systems 
evidence to show, after Mr M started using his credit card, it sent him an email on 3 August 
2020 that said his statement was ready to view. Amex says this shouldve prompted Mr M to 
review his statement and make sure his payment was made by 28 August 2020, the due 
date given. Amex has also pointed out that whilst Mr M had another direct debit in place for a 
separate account, it couldnt be used to make payments to his new credit card. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions Mr M accepted when he opened the credit card. 
Under the section How much and when you must pay it says You must pay the minimum 
payment by the payment due date shown on your statement In addition, within the section 
How are repayments made? it says When you need to make payment- You must pay at 
least the minimum payment each month by the due date shown on your statement (at least 
25 days after your statement date). The terms and conditions say the payment due date will 
be given in the statements provided by Amex. Theres nothing in the terms that says Amex 
has to send a separate notification of the due date, outside the information given in its 
statement. 
Ive looked at the statement Amex produced on 3 August 2020 and its clear in explaining Mr 
M needed to either clear his balance in full (to avoid paying interest) or make a minimum 
payment by 28 August 2020. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but I dont agree that Amex 
failed to notify him of the payment due date. Im satisfied it was set out on the statement, in 
line with the terms and conditions Mr M accepted when he opened the credit card. 
Amex says payment reminders are something card holders can switch on via its online 
service area or by calling it. But Amex doesnt send reminders unless theyve been 
requested by the card holder. Again, looking at the terms, theres nothing that indicates 
Amex will automatically send a separate notification of the due date beyond the information 
contained in its statement. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent found Amex made an 
error. 
Mr M says hes been unfairly charged interest but I dont agree. The terms and conditions 
say interest will become payable if the outstanding balance isnt cleared by the due date. As 
Mr Ms payment wasnt received by the due date, Amex applied the interest and a late 
payment charge, in line with its credit agreement. I can see Amex refunded the late payment 
fee and half the interest, but it has confirmed that was a gesture of goodwill to Mr M. I 
havent found that Amex made an error in the way it applied interest and charges to Mr Ms 
credit card. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im satisfied Amex did notify him his statement was 
ready and that, in line with the terms of his credit card, thats where the due date for his 
monthly payment was set out.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this compliant. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman