DRN-1678893
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2004. Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2004 Mr K took out PPI at the same time as taking out a secured loan during a branch 
meeting. 
The policy was a regular premium policy (monthly) and it provided protection for Mr K's 
loan payments in the event he couldn't work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 12 months per claim for unemployment 
and up to the term of the loan for accident and sickness. It cost around £17 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr K was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half pay. He said he had good redundancy pay and 
some savings he couldve used to make his repayments. He was also in good health at the 
time.
BoS' records show the loan account ended in 2006.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr K chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr K disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr K's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr K have a choice about PPI? 
Mr K says he was told he had to have PPI to get the loan.
I've thought carefully about what Mr K says happened. But having reviewed the evidence 
from both parties, I think on balance BoS made it clear that Mr K didn't have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out.BoS has provided a copy of Mr K's loan agreement he signed at the time of the sale. And 
here there is a separate section about PPI, which set out the cost and a printed 'X' in the 
'Yes' box to take out PPI - there was an equally prominent 'No' box too, which is blank.
I'm mindful the 'X' is printed and not handwritten on the agreement by Mr K or by the adviser 
on his behalf. But based on what we know about how sales like Mr K's were carried out at 
the time, a discussion about PPI would've been had prior to the agreement being printed off 
with the customer's decision whether to take out PPI or not.
So in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in Mr K's 
case - I'm mindful that Mr K is trying to recall events from 15 years ago - I think more likely 
than not BoS made it clear Mr K didn't have to take out PPI if he didn't want to.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr K. This means BoS had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr K  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances; and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr K says he was in a position to secure his payments - he had good sick pay and 
redundancy pay as well as some savings (amount not specified.) He's also said he could've 
taken early retirement if he was off work ill for an extended period.
I've considered Mr K's existing means - but I still think he had a need for cover. Mr K was 
taking on additional debt secured against his home - his main asset - and so an increase in 
his monthly expenditure. The policy would've paid out in addition to his sick pay and for 
longer if necessary - up to the term of the loan. So, if Mr K found himself off for longer than 
his full sick would've paid out for, I think it would've proved useful to him and would've 
helped him out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time.
I'm not persuaded Mr K had significant savings to fall back on - he was after all borrowing 
money to fund a purchase. And while I accept it's possible that Mr K's employer might've 
taken the decision to retire him early if he was off work ill for an extended period. But I don't 
think this was guaranteed - and I don't think it was reasonable for the adviser to have 
considered it as such when they gave their advice.
So overall, I don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended PPI to Mr K.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence about an event which happened many years ago, I 
accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr K about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I found above, I think he likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And as I also said above it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for him - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr K off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mr K has lost out as a result of having PPI, so BoS doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr K what he paid for PPI
Ive thought about everything Mr K and his representative has said both before and after the 
adjudicator gave their answer to the complaint. But these points dont change my decision. For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman