DRN-1913383
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund her money 
after she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mrs B received a message purporting to be from a family member through their genuine 
account on a social media platform, but it later transpired that the family members account 
had been hacked. The person whod hacked the account led Mrs B to believe she could 
obtain a grant and introduced her to a third party to arrange this. 
The third party told her that in order to receive this grant, she needed to pay fees. They 
then instructed Mrs B to attend a shop and purchase vouchers to the value of £300 to pay 
for these fees. They then asked her to send the voucher numbers on to them.
Mrs B attended a supermarket and made two debit card payments from her NatWest 
account for £250 and £50 to purchase the vouchers. She also purchased an additional £150 
of vouchers using cash shed been provided by her husband.
After Mrs B had provided the voucher codes to the third-party, she received further 
communication from them asking for an additional £1000 to be sent. At this point Mrs B 
became suspicious and discovered that shed fallen victim to a scam.
Mrs B contacted NatWests fraud team and informed them of the situation, but as Mrs B 
willingly made the card payments and provided the codes to the fraudster, it said there was 
nothing further that it could do. Mrs B was unhappy NatWest was unwilling to reimburse the 
loss, so she made a complaint. NatWest didnt uphold the complaint for the same reasons its 
fraud team provided, so Mrs B came to our service to look into things again.
An Investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint but agreed that NatWest hadnt made any 
error in these circumstances. She didnt think that the transactions appeared suspicious in 
comparison to Mrs Bs normal account activity. And as there was no interaction with 
NatWest during the transaction, she didnt think there was sufficient reason for NatWest to 
intercept the payment and question it. 
Mrs B disagreed with the Investigators assessment. She said that the bank should repay the 
£300 loss from the transactions but acknowledged that the £150 shed spent in cash couldnt 
be recovered. She also sent our Investigator several articles outlining a new authorised push 
payment code that meant consumers should be reimbursed funds lost as a result of a scam; 
and thought this applied to her complaint. As Mrs B didnt agree with the Investigators 
assessment, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, The Payment Services Regulations 2017 says that NatWest can hold Mrs B 
liable for a transaction if either she authorised that transaction or she didnt take reasonable 
steps to secure her account.
In this case, Im satisfied that Mrs B authorised the two card payments made as she has 
admitted to doing this, albeit under deception. But there are circumstances where we would 
expect a financial business to intervene in a transaction, even if this has been authorised by 
its customer.
NatWest has a responsibility to protect its customers from financial harm  such as being a 
victim of fraud  and should take reasonable steps to monitor its customers accounts for 
known fraud patterns or unusual spending behaviours. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mrs B made two card payment transactions for £250 
and £50 in a place where she regularly makes card payments. In addition to this, the 
amounts are not so out of character that Id expect NatWest to reasonably intercept them 
and question their validity. Mrs B makes regular card payments on her account, and she 
does occasionally make payments of a similar value. So, this wouldnt look like a particularly 
unusual payment in terms of her normal account expenditure. 
I also have to consider what is reasonable in terms of NatWests ability as an organisation to 
function. Considering that it processes a substantial amount of transactions of a value similar 
to that made in this complaint, it would be difficult for it to question every payment made from 
consumers accounts, as well as frustrate its customers in not following their instruction to 
make payments.
Considering the above two points, I dont find it unreasonable that NatWest didnt question 
these transactions, and therefore uncover the scam that Mrs B was unfortunately subjected 
to.
Mrs B has argued that her payments are covered by a new code, signed up to by NatWest, 
which reimburses customers for payments theyve made as a result of a scam; and are not 
at fault. But the code Mrs B has referred to doesnt apply to transactions of this nature. The 
code, known as the Contingency Reimbursement Model (CRM) only applies to bank to bank 
transfers  commonly known as authorised push payments. As the payments Mrs B made 
werent bank transfers, I cant consider them under the code she has referred to.
There are however other schemes that NatWest can consider in terms of recuperating or 
disputing card payments, such as the chargeback scheme. This is a scheme put in place by 
the card issuers, used to resolve disputes between merchants and the cardholder. In this 
instance, the merchant where Mrs B made the payments to, did in fact provide the vouchers 
that she paid for. So, Im satisfied that a chargeback wouldnt have been appropriate  or 
likely successful  had NatWest raised one as Mrs B received the goods shed paid for.
Mrs B has contacted our service several times since our Investigator issued their view, and I 
can see that losing the funds has been difficult for her and has caused financial and 
emotional distress. I can understand why this has caused Mrs B to do everything she can to 
try and get these funds back. But having taken all of this into consideration, I cant see that 
NatWest has made an error here. And it would therefore be unreasonable to hold them liable 
for the payments Mrs B has made as a result of the scam.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman