DRN-3687877
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC wont refund the money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr R says that in 2018 he started to invest with a company he now knows is a clone of a 
genuine company. He discovered he was the victim of a scam when the trader stopped 
communicating with him after hed paid fees to release his profits. 
Mr R made the following payments from his HSBC account (he also made other payments 
that dont form part of this complaint):
Payment 
numberDate Amount Recipient
1 02/12/18 £50 1
2 24/04/19 £870 1
3 19/06/20 £500 2
4 02/08/20 £1,000 2
5 18/01/21 £600 2
6 20/01/21 £1,210 2
Total £4,230
Mr R believes that HSBC breached its duty of care, failed to take adequate steps to protect 
foreseeable loss and ignored obvious warning signs when he made the payments. He has 
referred to the specialist knowledge HSBC had in respect of potential scams. As a result, Mr 
R thinks HSBC should refund his loss in full.  
HSBC hasnt refunded Mr R. It noted that Mr Rs complaint isnt covered by the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) because the 
payments were made to an account in Mr Rs name. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that she could only consider payments from Mr Rs HSBC account and that these payments 
werent so out of character that HSBC should have intervened. This was because they were 
relatively low in value and were made over a few years. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said:
- Its unfair to blame the victim of a scam and his funds were transferred as a result of 
coercion and under false pretenses. 
- The transactions didnt match his usual spending pattern as he hadnt invested in 
cryptocurrency before. 
- Mr R referred to the Banking Protocol and BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 and what they say 
about protecting customers from harm. He said that HSBC should have known that 
he was at risk of being scammed and contacted him about the payments. Mr R also 
thinks HSBC should warn customers of the risks involved in making payments to 
people they dont know and of the risk of being unable to recover the funds. 
- Mr R asked that he be refunded at least 50% of his loss. 
Mr Rs complaint has been referred to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice (including those referred to by Mr R in his submissions to this service); 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this 
case. Payments one and two in the table above were made before it came into force so cant 
be considered under it. The later payments to a cryptocurrency exchange also arent 
covered as the CRM Code only applies to payments made to another person and Mr R paid 
his own cryptocurrency account. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr R when he made the payment requests, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
I have considered the position carefully.
Much of Mr Rs response to the investigators view focused on the fact that he didnt know he 
was being scammed. Whilst I accept Mr R is the victim of a scam this doesnt automatically 
mean that HSBC should refund him. I can only ask HSBC to refund Mr R if I conclude it 
should have done more to prevent the payments from being made. 
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. Having considered Rs 
account activity before the scam I agree with the investigator that the scam payments 
werent unusual or uncharacteristic and so I wouldnt expect HSBC to flag them or ask Mr R 
any questions about them. 
The first two payments were made to a UK bank account. The amounts were modest and 
there was nothing else about them that was unusual. In the circumstances, HSBC had no 
reason to be concerned about them and to intervene in any way. 
I turn now to the other payments, all of which were made to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Again, I dont consider that the payments were so uncharacteristic that HSBC should have 
intervened when Mr R made the payment requests. The payments were relatively low in 
value, were made to a legitimate company and left the account with a healthy balance after 
they were processed. They also didnt follow a common pattern of scam transactions and 
were made over a period of around seven months. To HSBC, the transactions appeared to 
be genuinely authorised payments and there was no reason why they wouldnt have seemed 
genuine. So I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in processing the payments without 
making further enquiries.
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the 
ones Mr R made were blocked while further enquiries were made, many genuine payments 
would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay. 
Mr R has told this service that HSBC failed to prevent a foreseeable loss, but I disagree. I 
dont consider that HSBC had any reason to suspect Mr R may be at risk of financial harm. 
Im not persuaded HSBC should have intervened simply because Mr R started to make 
relatively modest payments to a cryptocurrency exchange without any other indicators that 
Mr R may be the victim of a scam (such as payments made in quick succession). 
Mr R has also referred to the Banking Protocol, but this only applies to payments made in 
branch in situations when branch staff have concerns that a customer may be falling victim 
to a scam. Even if the payments were made in branch, I dont consider HSBC had any 
obligation to invoke the Banking Protocol. This is because, for the reasons already 
discussed, I dont consider the payments were so unusual and out of character that HSBC 
ought to have intervened and asked questions about them.
Did HSBC do enough to try to recover Mr Rs funds?
Ive seen evidence that HSBC contacted the relevant parties to try to recover Mr Rs funds 
on the day the scam was reported. So I dont believe HSBC could have done anything more. 
Overall
Im sorry Mr R has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman