DRN-3791843
The complaint
Ms C, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Ms C was advanced five home collected loans between March 2016 and June 2018. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £1,000.00 23/03/2016 20/12/2016 36 £40.00
2 £600.00 20/12/2016 16/06/2017 33 £30.00
3 £400.00 16/06/2017 11/05/2018 33 £20.00
4 £600.00 16/06/2017 22/06/2018 33 £30.00
5 £370.00 22/06/2018 29/03/2019 33 £18.50
Following Ms Cs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold her complaint. Ms Cs representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision
to provide loans 1 - 4 - so he didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint about these loans. But he
thought the lending was now harmful for Ms C by the time loan 5 was granted and this led
him to uphold Ms Cs complaint about the loan.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan five. Ive
summarised its comments below.
Loan 5 was the smallest value loan  which is half as much as Ms C previously
borrowed  this led to smaller weekly repayments.
Morses calculated that Ms C had sufficient disposable income to afford the
repayments due on this loan.
Ms Cs income was confirmed through a credit reference agency.
Ms C was committed to using 14.2% of her income to meet the loan repayment.
Morses wasnt aware of any financial difficulties.
Ms Cs representative told the Financial Ombudsman that Ms C accepted the findings.
The case was then passed to me and I issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons 
why I was intending to still uphold Ms Cs complaint about loan 5 but for different reasons. A 
copy the provisional findings follows this in italics and a smaller font and forms part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms C could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Cs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms C. These factors include:
Ms C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms C.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms C could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms C was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Cs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms C (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 4. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute
and so I say no more about them.
Loan 5
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view the loan was harmful for Ms C because
it was now unsustainable for Morses to continue to lend to her.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded these loans were now harmful to Ms C.
I accept, that Ms C had been indebted with Morses continuously for around 27 months  and
she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 33 weeks. This, in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very least
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was
consecutive and at times overlapped, which could show that Ms C had a continued need forcredit.
But I also have to keep in mind that Ms Cs borrowing wasnt increasing in fact there had
been a steady decrease in the capital borrowed and by loan five, this was one of the
smallest loans with the smallest weekly repayment. So, I cant fairly conclude Ms Cs
commitments were increasing and because of that I cant conclude that Ms Cs indebtedness
seemed to be increasing unsustainably.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Ms C and I so I am intending to conclude the loans werent likely
to be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But that
doesnt mean Morse did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
For this loan, Ms C declared a weekly income of £200. Morses information doesnt show
how this income was made up, for example whether it was salary or benefits. But Morses
does say her information was checked with a credit reference agency and this confirmed a
high degree of accuracy. But the results of this income check havent been provided.
Ms C also declared that her outgoings were £70 a week, leaving £130 per week in
disposable income in which to afford her weekly repayment of £18.50.
Based solely on Ms Cs income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making.
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms C had
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew
about Ms Cs finances.
I say this because it would appear, based on the information Morses has supplied that there
must have been a significant change in circumstances between loans four and five. Given
that her income reduced by over 50% and her outgoings decreased by more than half.
In my view, by the final loan, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very
least, started to have verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to
suggest it carried out further checks in this case.
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Ms C. The reason I say
this is because there were clear signs in the way Ms C had repaid her previous loans which
indicated she was having financial difficulties.
It took her an additional 14 weeks to repay loan three and an additional 20 weeks to repay
loan four. So, Ms C had shown, in her repayment history that she was struggling to repay
her loans.
The loan three weekly repayment was only marginally larger than loan five and it took Ms C
nearly 50% longer than contracted to pay that amount. Im therefore, not sure why Morses
felt that a loan of similar value could be repaid sustainably. I dont think, knowing that she
had struggled to repay two loans (one for a similar sum) that Morses couldve been confident
that Ms C would repay her fifth loan in a sustainable manner.
So, it seems that Ms C was likely having significant problems repaying her previous debts
and is an indicator that she couldnt repay her loans sustainably.
Im, therefore, still intending to uphold Ms Cs complaint about loan 5 but for different
reasons.
Response to provsional decision 
Both Ms C and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon 
as possible, but in any event no later than 8 November 2022. Ms Cs representative confirmed receipt of the provisional decision. It explained it would 
contact Ms C and provide any further information it receives. To date, no further 
correspondents has been sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Morses also emailed the Financial Ombudsman Service to confirm it accepted the 
findings as outlined in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything further for consideration, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses ought to have approved loan five considering the problems Ms C 
had had in repaying her two previous loans. Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in 
order to put things right for Ms C. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had if it hadnt lent loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are
a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms C with loan 5.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Morses may have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Cs credit file about 
loan 5.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Cs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms C as directed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman