The complaint
Mrs M says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma (Satsuma), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Mrs M has said Satsuma didnt ask her for enough information to 
find out if the loans were affordable for her. The lending has left her in debt, and she has 
suffered mentally and financially.       
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mrs M between August 
2015 and July 2016. Mrs Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 05/08/2015 30/11/2015 13 weekly    £300.00 £161.55
2 06/01/2016 29/02/2016 21 weekly    £500.00 £204.75
3 04/03/2016 05/05/2016 34 weekly £1,000.00 £292.65
4 20/05/2016 15/06/2016 26 weekly £1,000.00 £368.25
5 07/07/2016 Outstanding 43 weekly £1,100.00 £254.55
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. They thought the checks Satsuma had 
carried out before lending her loans one to three were reasonable and the information it 
obtained wouldnt have given it any cause to reconsider giving Mrs M the loans. For the later 
loans, loans four and five, the adjudicator thought that Satsuma should have sought to build 
a more detailed picture of Mrs Ms financial circumstances but from the information provided 
there was nothing to suggest the lending was unaffordable for her. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the adjudicator. She says she was using other short-term lenders 
and was juggling her finances to make the loan repayments. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
DRN-1719577What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving the loans. 
This included information about Mrs Ms income and expenditure to assess whether the loans were affordable for her. It also included a credit risk assessment and fraud and anti-
money laundering checks. 
Satsuma asked Mrs M about her employment status, and she confirmed she was employed 
and had a monthly income of between £3,300 and £3,500. Satsuma also checked Mrs Ms 
normal monthly living costs. Mrs M declared these to be between £1,995 and £3,137 (these 
amounts included the safeguard buffers added by Satsuma). Because of this, I dont think 
the loan repayments look unaffordable on a pounds and pence basis, based on the 
information Mrs M had declared to Satsuma. 
For Mrs Ms first three loans there wasnt anything in the information that Mrs M provided 
which would have given Satsuma cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma 
to have relied upon what Mrs M had declared. I think these factors had an impact on what 
level of checks would have been appropriate for Satsuma to have carried out. Given these, I 
think the checks Satsuma did before lending the loans went far enough and the checks it 
carried out showed the loans were affordable. So, I wouldn't have expected for Satsuma at 
this stage to have undertaken more in-depth checks. 
When Mrs M took loan three the amount borrowed had doubled from the previous borrowing 
to £1,000 so there was the potential sign that Mrs Ms financial circumstances were getting 
worse. For loan four, while I appreciate the amount borrowed stayed the same as loan three 
and the agreed term had reduced, the monthly repayments had increased. And Mrs M had 
now been borrowing over seven consecutive months, so I think for loans four  and loan five 
 this continued borrowing and for a relatively high sum, should have given Satsuma some
cause for concern about what Mrs M was telling it about her financial position. I think
Satsuma should have taken steps to verify the information Mrs M was providing. It could
have done so by  and not limited to  asking Mrs M for her bank statements or for copies of
her payslips and bills as examples.
But I cant know what this would have shown. Mrs M hasnt been able to provide us with any 
additional information  such as copies of her bank statements from around the time of the 
lending. Mrs M has told us she changed banks so hasnt been able to provide us with 
anything more. 
Satsumas own customer contact records show that Mrs M had sometimes missed payments 
on earlier lending because of cash flow problems but this was always resolved. And I note 
from the credit check Satsuma carried out that Mrs M had two accounts in arrears but no 
record of short-term loans in the last three months. There were also up to eight searches on 
her credit status in the previous 12 months. But the credit check also showed that Mrs M had 
no county court judgments, was not in a bankruptcy or in a debt management plan. 
So I dont think this information alone would lead me to say the borrowing was unaffordable 
for Mrs M. We dont have enough information to see what Satsuma would have seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks for loans four and five. As such, I cant safely conclude that 
Satsuma was wrong to have agreed to these two loans with Mrs M. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for loans one to 
three was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mrs M wasnt unreasonable. And 
for loans four and five, while I think Satsuma should have done more to build up a picture of 
Mrs Ms financial circumstances, I cant know what it would have found if it had carried out 
those additional checks. So, I cant safely say Satsuma was wrong to have given her loans 
four and five. 
I appreciate my conclusion to Mrs Ms complaint will be a disappointment to her, but I hope I 
have managed to explain how and why Ive reached it. I note that loan five is still outstanding and I would remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat 
Mrs M fairly when arranging repayment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman