DRN-1782704
The complaint
Mr W complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr W acquired a car costing £25,410 funded by a deposit of £1,000 and 
the balance by a finance agreement. It was almost three years old and had done 29,190 
miles.
In May 2019 Mr W noticed a noise and took it back to the dealer. It diagnosed a problem 
with the crankshaft flywheel which was replaced. However, this didnt resolve the problem 
and Mr W took the car back. He says the dealer kept it for about a month and took it to a 
main dealer where a fault with the timing valve mechanism was identified and Mr W was told 
that this would cost some £7,000 to repair. Mr W had a warranty agreement, but this would 
not cover the full cost of the repair.
Mr W contacted MotoNovo and says he was advised to obtain an Independent report. He did 
so and sent it to MotoNovo. It rejected his complaint and said two garages hadnt noticed the 
noise and it wasnt present at the point of sale. It also said the inspector had speculated that 
there was a manufacturers fault, but this was incorrect. It said the manufacturer had seen 
the car and had said there had been no recalls and it said it may be able to offer a goodwill 
gesture depending on the service history.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. She noted that Mr W had explained that the 
fault only became apparent when he drove with the windows down and so he hadnt 
identified the problem earlier. She referred to the independent report which states:
As the engine warmed up it appeared to be normal. However, once it was being driven on 
test adjacent to high walls with the car's windows open, a chattering sound could be heard 
from the engine. When the car was stationary, the chattering sound could easily be heard 
with the engine on tick over.
There is evidence that there is a design or manufacturing flaw in the engine which has 
existed since the car was new.
I understand that under the Consumer Protection Act 2015, a product has to be of 
satisfactory quality and therefore durable. This car falls short of this requirement, because 
the engine is noisy, caused by the defective valve timing mechanism from new, which could 
also result in a catastrophic engine failure.
If a catastrophic engine failure were to occur, the car's brakes and steering would become 
inoperable and this would compromise the safety of the car and its occupants.
Our investigator concluded that there was a known fault and the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. She said the claim that two garages hadnt notice the noise didnt mean the fault didnt exist. She also pointed out that Mr W had not driven the car since June 2019 and had 
only covered some 6,000 miles in it. Overall, she thought Mr W should be allowed to reject it. 
Mr W agreed and pointed out that MotoNovo had paid him £200 towards the cost of the 
report.  MotoNovo didnt agree and said that the repair to the crankshaft pulley was made 
some 10 months after the sale. It also queried why Mr W hadnt noticed the problem earlier if 
it been present at the point of sale. It said the manufacturer had confirmed there had been 
no recall. However, it accepted that this may be a common fault with this model, but there 
was no evidence that it was present at the point of sale. It didnt think the inspectors report 
was credible and it lacked detail. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
While I have some sympathy with the views put forward by MotoNovo I have concluded after 
due deliberation that I should uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I fear the key issue seems to have got lost in discussion about whether the car was the 
subject of a recall or whether it had an inherent manufacturing fault. Quite simply, Mr W 
spent a significant sum of money on a car that was less than three years old and had done a 
relatively modest mileage. It is reasonable for him to expect it be durable and certainly not 
face a potential bill of £7,000 after only having driven it for some 6,000 miles. 
Because he didnt identify the problem until after he had the car for six months the onus was 
on him to establish it was present the point of sale. The business gave Mr W information 
about local assessors and he selected one which carried out an inspection. I must admit I 
find the report to be less helpful than many I have seen. 
The inspector identified there is a fault and noted that the engine should last for at least 
100,000 miles before any major work is required. He states there is evidence that there is a 
design or manufacturing flaw in the engine, but he doesnt explain what that evidence is other than to refer to a conversation Mr W mentioned he had had with a mechanic at the 
main dealer. 
I am aware that there have been instances of problems with this type of engine though there 
has been no recall. I also gather the manufacturer has made goodwill payments and has 
suggested it may do so in this case subject to the cars service history being satisfactory. 
That said, it seems that prior to the point of sale a service was delayed and so this offer may 
not stand good. The point hasnt been explored, but I wonder if the car was sold with a full 
and complete service history. The missed service may have invalidated any warranty the car 
carried. However, that has not been considered and I dont propose to delay matters by 
making further enquiries.
The fact that the car has not been the subject of a recall doesnt mean that there have not 
been issues with engines of this type. Indeed, I have seen an email from MotoNovo which 
states: The fault is known to Audi on that engine type and some vehicles do suffer this 
failure, as such Audi offer to make a goodwill payment for the component parts required in 
the repair. I think it I reasonable to conclude that the engine was one of the unlucky ones 
which did suffer from a fault.
Putting things right
I consider the car not have been durable as is expected by consumer law and so I have 
concluded Mr W should be allowed to reject it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund deposit plus 8% interest from the date paid to the date of the settlement
Refund £450 for the report, less any already paid, plus 8% interest from the date paid 
to the date of the settlement
Refund the monthly payments Mr W has had to pay, whilst unable to drive
the car (July 2019 to date)
Pay £200 compensation for the inconvenience thats been caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman