DRN-3473973
The complaint
Mrs M complained that Saxton 4x4 Limited (Saxton) unfairly declined her claim under her 
motor vehicle warranty and there were some aspects of poor customer service experienced. 
Mrs M was represented during this claim, but for ease and simplicity, I will only refer to Mrs 
M.
What happened
Mrs M said whilst driving her car the restricted performance error message and red triangle 
illuminated on her vehicles dashboard and the performance of the vehicle reduced limiting 
her to limp to her closest dealership.
The dealership identified several issues with the vehicle. Mrs M contacted Saxton, who 
arranged for an expert to inspect the vehicle. There were some issues with the expert not 
turning up which caused Mrs S some inconvenience.
Once the car was inspected, Saxton declined the claim based upon the report provided by 
its appointed expert. Saxton said the report concluded that none of the components 
inspected had suffered from a mechanical or material failure and advised the parts had failed 
due to gradual in-service deterioration. Due to this, your repair request was rejected, and our 
engineer informed you of our decision and the reasons for this.
Mrs M thought this was unfair, she explained the warranty supported her for components 
that had failed to perform their normal function and she felt all the failed components had 
met this criterion. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Saxton had been 
reasonable in relying on the findings of an independent expert and he thought it had fairly 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms. Mrs M disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M explained that she wanted to be present at the garage when Saxtons appointed 
expert investigated what had failed on the car. She turned up at the garage at the arranged 
time, but the expert didnt show. So, the appointment had to be re-arranged. This caused 
Mrs M inconvenience as part of her day was needlessly wasted. Saxton said this wasnt its 
fault, but the fault of the expert. This may be true, but as the expert was appointed by Saxton 
 ultimate responsibility for the experts work and actions lay with Saxtons. Therefore, I 
uphold this aspect of the complaint. For the inconvenience, I award Mrs M £100 
compensation.
Mrs M said she was unhappy with the warranty that was sold to her (as well as the declined 
claim itself). However, our investigator said in his view [Mrs Ms] concerns about the sale 
stem from [Saxtons] decision to decline the claim. So, Ive only considered [Saxtons] 
handling of Mrs Ms] claim. If [Mrs M] wants to pursue a complaint about the sale she can let 
us know and we can investigate that separately. Mrs M didnt respond saying she wanted 
the sale investigated, so I havent considered the sale either  however, the option is still 
there for Mrs M to have this investigated if she so chooses, by contacting the investigator.
Mrs M has suggested the expert appointed by Saxton wasnt independent. She said the 
wording in the experts report implies that it considered the terms and conditions of the 
contract  but she said its conclusions should only be limited to its expertise in engineering.
Its normal under warranty / insurance type claims for the underwriter to seek an expert view 
before deciding on a claim. I think Saxton has been reasonable in following this approach for 
this claim and I havent seen any evidence to suggest its views shouldnt be properly 
considered. There hasnt been any information provided from other experts put forward in 
relation to the specifics of this case, so Im reliant on whats been put forward by Saxtons 
expert to determine whats reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Saxton said the [experts] report concluded that none of the components inspected
had suffered from a mechanical or material failure and advised the parts had failed due to 
gradual in-service deterioration. I have reviewed the report produced by the expert and 
Saxtons summary is consistent with the commentary provided. 
Saxton declined the claim as it said, your warranty doesnt support a mechanical breakdown 
due to the gradual deterioration of your vehicles performance due to age and mileage. I 
have checked the warranty and section 7 of the terms and conditions shows an exclusion 
clause which states the gradual deterioration of your vehicles performance due to age and 
mileage, including, but not limited to, gradual loss of engine compression requiring the repair 
of valves or rings and the gradual increase in the oil consumption due to normal operating 
functions.
I think Saxton has come to a reasonable conclusion based upon the report provided by the 
expert it appointed. As gradual deterioration is not covered by the warranty, I think Saxton 
has been fair in declining the claim. The car was around seven to eight years old at the time 
of inspection, with a mileage of over 80,000. So, I dont think it would be unreasonable to 
expect signs of ageing and deterioration.
I appreciate Mrs M has put forward an argument suggesting that Saxton hadnt applied the 
terms and conditions to this claim fairly.  Mrs M has argued that the exclusion only applied to 
the vehicle in its entirety and not its individual parts. However, I dont agree  the vehicle is 
intrinsically a sum of all its parts. As the parts start to fail, the performance of the car would 
do so also, so I dont think there is anything wrong with how Saxton has applied the terms 
and conditions. I think the intent of the terms and conditions are clear.
Mrs M has provided reasoning why she thinks gradual deterioration doesnt apply in her 
circumstances. Mrs M has set out in depth why she thinks the reduced performance of her 
car was down to a sudden breakdown to part of her car (e.g. a fractured part) as opposed to 
a gradual deterioration of the part. However, I think the expert has been clear that he 
observed in-service age-related deterioration or in-service fatigue. He has stated the 
fracture was a well-documented issue and would not be classed as a sudden and 
unforeseen mechanical/material failure and he found no faults with the suspension 
compressor.
Saxtons evidence has been provided by an expert, so I find this to be more persuasive. And 
Saxton have clarified that gradual deterioration and fatigue that happens over time can often 
lead to a sudden fracture to a part. I think this builds on the experts reports and explains why the impact of this may have appeared sudden to Mrs M who was driving the vehicle when 
the cars warning system first alerted her to the issue.
I think Saxton has reasonably interpreted its terms and conditions and applied these fairly to 
the findings from an expert. So, I think it has fairly declined this claim. As I havent seen any 
expert reports that contradict what has been put forward by Saxtons appointed expert, I 
dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Saxton 4x4 Limited to pay Mrs M:
£100* compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
* Saxton 4x4 Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it that Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman