DRN-2375068
The complaint
Mr F complains National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 1998 with a mortgage. The 
policy covered Mr F if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that National Westminster recommended the 
policy to Mr F, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did the bank give Mr F information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to 
put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance 
he was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr F is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr Fs mortgage offer included a prompt about considering PPI, because the cover was only 
available before the mortgage completed. It seems Mr F then completed a direct debit 
mandate for payment of the policy premiums. So I think Mr F wouldve realised he had a 
choice about buying the PPI and decided to take it out.
Mr F satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. 
Mr F has told me he was self-employed when he bought the policy, although the MIRAS 
form he signed was completed to show he was in paid employment, rather than self-
employed. 
But even if Mr F was self-employed at the time, Im not persuaded that the policy terms 
meant it wouldve been more difficult for him to make a successful unemployment claim on 
the policy than it wouldve been for someone who was employed. 
Overall, Mr Fs circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the 
conditions limiting the policys main benefits. So I dont think he needed better information 
about the policys limitations or exclusions. 
Mr F has also told me he had savings worth the equivalent of one years salary. So he 
doesnt consider the policy was good value for him. But as Ive already said, National 
Westminster didnt advise Mr F to take out the policy. So it didnt have to take account of any 
other means he had to cover his mortgage repayments.
But even if it had advised Mr F to take the policy, Im not persuaded it was unsuitable for 
him. Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr F could use his savings to pay for other 
expenses. So I think the policy couldve been useful to him, despite his existing 
arrangements. 
I cant be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr F when he agreed to buy it. But he 
took out the policy knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely that Mr F would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
In summary, I think Mr F agreed to take out the cover, knowing he didnt have to. And given 
it provided broadly what I think he expected when he agreed to it, I dont think he would have 
made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if he had been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman