DRN-4473691
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from St. Jamess Place Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP) regarding the transfer of his personal pension plan (PPP). He says its advice not 
to transfer has affected his retirement plans and means he is now unable to pay off his 
mortgage. 
What happened
Mr M holds a drawdown plan with SJP as well as two other PPPs through other providers. 
One of those was a PPP which contained a guarantee arising from compensation 
calculated under the industry wide pensions review. This was because Mr M had been 
incorrectly advised previously to opt out of an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). This 
meant that when Mr M wanted to draw benefits from that plan the provider would calculate 
the amount required to ensure he received the same benefits that he would have done if 
hed been a member of that employers pension scheme.
Mr M had regular review meetings with SJP which centred mainly on the frequency and level 
of withdrawals he wanted to take from his drawdown plan. But in 2021, having received a 
statement from the other provider setting out the lump sum he could take from the pension 
review guarantee plan, he asked SJP about the viability of transferring that sum to his 
drawdown plan. Mr M says SJP told him that as he didnt require the funds at that time, he 
should leave the benefits where they were as their estimated value should only increase.
The following year Mr M received another statement which showed the value of the lump 
sum available had increased to £527,714 - a significant increase. So he asked again if SJP 
could transfer the funds. SJPs adviser said she needed to understand the value of any 
guarantee he might give up if he transferred, she also sought advice on whether SJP could 
accept such a transfer. She subsequently told Mr M that her recommendation was that if he 
didnt need the funds a transfer would most likely be unsuitable unless he could provide a 
breakdown of why he needed to access them as a compelling reason to transfer. 
A subsequent review meeting with SJP  planned for December 2022 - was deferred until 
Mr M received another illustration from the other provider. Each quotation was only valid for 
three months. Unfortunately when Mr M received the new quote in March 2023 the lump 
sum figure had fallen by around £190,000. He says he wanted to use the tax free cash 
(TFC) from the plan to pay off his mortgage  which he couldnt now do. 
Mr M expressed his concern and disappointment about the loss to his adviser and she 
submitted a complaint to SJP on his behalf about the advice hed been given. 
Mr M says SJP didnt answer his complaint for a period of around four months, so in the 
meantime he brought it to us to investigate. When it did eventually respond SJP said it didnt 
uphold the complaint making the following points:
Its adviser had sought technical advice which said that if she was unable to confirm 
how the guarantee would work upon transferring or was unable to establish a 
reason for transferring then she couldnt recommend the transfer.
This recommendation was reiterated again in 2022.
The adviser had no recollection of being told that Mr M wanted the TFC from the 
other pension to pay off his mortgage. She had previously thought this would be paid 
off using an inheritance that was due. Nor was this documented within the financial 
review that was completed in 2022  which didnt record a mortgage still being held 
at that time. (Assumed to be paid off with the inheritance proceeds). 
But it did accept that its technical team may have provided incorrect information that 
the guarantee within the other plan was always likely to increase. It offered £650 for 
this error and for the delay in responding to the complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he didnt raise the possibility of transferring his pension but 
expressly asked the adviser to do it which was set out in three separate emails. He said the 
only reason he didnt pursue the transfer was because the adviser incorrectly told him the 
fund value would increase and he should defer any action until he actually needed the funds. 
He also refuted the suggestion that he was going to pay off his mortgage using an 
inheritance. He said it wasnt possible to do that and in any case the adviser invested his 
inheritance money into ISAs for him. 
One of our investigators looked into matter. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
as she thought the advice not to transfer was suitable. She also thought SJPs offer of £650 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by providing incorrect information about the 
guarantee applied to the plan, was fair and reasonable.  
Mr M didnt agree making the following points in response:
SJP told him the offer of compensation he would get within the pension review PPP 
from the provider wouldnt fall, which was incorrect advice. The compensation offer 
has been affected by the rise in interest rates  which has also increased his 
mortgage costs.
He is now aware that his plan wasnt a final salary pension but a separate plan 
holding the compensation amount. He could have taken his TFC from that plan and 
then taken the residual amount as a lump sum or to purchase an annuity. He made it 
clear to SJP many times that he intended to take the lump sum.
The provider has confirmed that he didnt need to take advice to withdraw the lump 
sum and use a drawdown plan for the remining funds. If SJP had confirmed this, he 
could have dealt with the provider directly.
SJP gave advice without fully understanding his plan or providing a suitability report. 
The advisers explanation that he intended to pay off his mortgage using an 
inheritance is incorrect as he explained why that wasnt possible in great depth. In 
addition the adviser invested most of the money he did inherit into ISAs  so SJP 
was fully aware of his position.
SJP constantly told him to leave the pension funds invested if he didnt need the 
income. But by 2020 he did need the income and used his savings to provide it 
instead. He didnt understand why he wasnt advised to use the pension plan to draw 
an income up to the value of his personal income tax allowance.
Following his complaint to SJP it has taken five months for it to respond which meant 
he missed the opportunity to take the providers compensation package in 
March 2023. He has requested another benefit illustration from the provider, but 
these generally take three months at least to produce. He is concerned the value will 
have fallen again. 
In asking for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman Mr M told us that his plan has 
fallen by a further £26,873 since the March 2023 illustration. He said this represented a total 
loss of approximately £217,000 since he asked to transfer his plan in March 2022. He said SJPs delays in responding to his complaint meant he missed another opportunity to 
withdraw his funds again when another illustration expired, and it took four months to obtain 
another one.
 
So the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know this 
outcome will disappoint Mr M as Ive seen the strength of his feelings about this matter and I 
have some sympathy for the position he now finds himself in. But I dont think that was SJPs 
fault and I think its offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. So Ill set out my reasons 
below. Ive been provided with a lot of information regarding communication between Mr M 
and SJP since 2017 primarily through review meetings and emails and Ive used this 
information as part of reaching my overall decision.
 
Was the advice not to transfer to SJP suitable?
Mr M asked SJP on two occasions to transfer the benefits of the pension review guarantee 
PPP into his SJP drawdown plan. This request was based on the statements he received 
from the other provider outlining the lump sum he would receive from that guarantee as 
well as a fund value of the benefits that were contained outside of the guarantee. 
So I think Mr M, pleased at the significant increase he noted in 2022 in the amount available 
to him, thought it would probably be in his best interest to take that sum  using the TFC and 
reinvesting the balance into his drawdown plan. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
course of action, but he asked if SJP could transfer the fund to its plan which meant that SJP 
couldnt just carry out his request without a determination of whether that transfer was 
suitable for him and financially in his best interest.
 
I think its important to highlight this distinction because Mr M simply wanted to maximise his 
income and TFC capabilities, whereas SJP didnt have the same concern about whether his 
available fund had become more generous, but whether a transfer of any amount was 
suitable for him based on a comparison of what it could provide against the other offering. 
In order to determine that outcome SJP needed to conduct some form of transfer analysis to 
show Mr M either how he might benefit from a transfer or what benefits he would be giving 
up and the financial loss he might incur. Just because Mr M wanted to transfer didnt 
necessarily mean that SJP had to comply with that request.
 
From the evidence Ive been presented with I think SJP had two obstacles to overcome to 
undertake an analysis. The first was to be able to calculate the effect of the pension review 
guarantee. 
As the guarantee would ensure Mr M received the equivalent income to what he gave up 
from not being a member of his OPS, SJP needed to understand how the calculation worked 
so that it could incorporate that within its analysis. From what Ive seen the information it 
eventually received from the provider explained that the calculation followed the regulators 
prescribed methodology as set out by the pensions review (FG17-9). That calculation is 
somewhat complex, and Im not persuaded SJP would have been able to incorporate it 
within a transfer analysis report. So Im not satisfied it would have been able to accurately 
demonstrate what benefits Mr M would have given up.But in any case, SJP wasnt satisfied it was provided with the information it needed so it 
wasnt willing to undergo the analysis anyway  which I think was a reasonable course of 
action, as I think it was more likely than not that SJP would have demonstrated a transfer 
wasnt in Mr Ms best financial interests. By the time SJPs charges and fees had been 
applied to the transfer value I dont think its reasonable to think SJP could have 
demonstrated to Mr M that he would be financially better off.
The second issue SJP had was that it would have needed a compelling reason to transfer to 
satisfy the regulators default position that a transfer of this type wouldnt normally be in a 
consumers best interest. I know that this wasnt a defined benefit transfer, but the terms of 
Mr Ms pension review guarantee meant that any transfer analysis should be considered 
along similar lines. The adviser initially set this out in her email of May 2021 to Mrs M when 
she said, however if he requires the money, I will need to provide SJP with a breakdown of 
what he would spend it on for them to approve a transfer. Especially as (the other provider) 
also offer a drawdown facility without the need to transfer and their charges are lower than 
SJP. 
Mrs M gave the reason as, that I just assumed he could draw 25% tax free from this and 
invest the rest in his drawdown pot? The reason for drawing the tax free lump sum is 
because from next April hell be a taxpayer and therefore we wanted to minimise the amount 
he took from his drawdown facility as income. Transferring the balance to SJP was to 
simplify it.
I dont think that was an unreasonable explanation, although I dont think it could be 
considered as a compelling argument for transferring, especially as the suggestion that Mr M 
would become a taxpayer in the new financial year wouldnt affect his ability to draw TFC  
and there was clearly no requirement for any further income because the thought was to 
invest the residual fund into the SJP plan. So although the adviser said that if Mr M wanted 
to transfer his benefits to SJP it would consider doing so if there was a compelling reason to 
transfer  I dont believe the reason cited was compelling enough. 
However, Mr M has been consistent in telling both ourselves and SJP that he wanted to 
transfer the benefits and use the TFC to repay his mortgage. He has disputed that he told 
SJP he would be using an inheritance to pay off the loan and said the SJP adviser was 
aware that wasnt the case as she invested most of it into ISAs for him. He said that SJP 
hadnt recorded his financial position correctly in some of its documents including in its fact 
find of 2022, when it incorrectly said he no longer had a mortgage. So Ive considered what 
Mr M has said but I havent seen sufficient evidence to support the claim that he made SJP 
aware of this reason for transferring. 
Looking at the notes from the review meetings Mr M had with SJP, I can see that various 
references were made to both his mortgage and his possible inheritance. In March 2017 it 
was suggested that Mr M was looking to repay the mortgage with his fathers inheritance or 
possibly repaying the mortgage using overpayments and ISAs. In December 2018 it was 
noted that the outstanding mortgage was £100,000 and Mr M was considering investing his 
fathers inheritance and looking to remortgage. 
In March 2020 the outstanding mortgage was unchanged, but the inheritance was noted to 
be around £75,000 which Mr M was open to investing. In March 2021 it was noted the 
mortgage was an interest only loan of £100,000. The review notes also referred to 
downsizing. 
So I think the adviser did show awareness of Mr Ms situation and made reference to his 
mortgage, inheritance, and possible investments over the years. But while Mr M disputes the 
accuracy of some of that content Ive seen nothing to support the claim of using the TFC as 
a vehicle to help repay the mortgage. As Ive set out above when Mr M was given the opportunity to put forward reasons for transferring his plan by the adviser in January 2021 
there was no suggestion that using the TFC to repay a mortgage was part of any plan. So I 
dont think theres anything to support that idea and, as I havent seen any other compelling 
reasons that were put forward for SJP to consider the transfer, I think SJPs advice not to 
transfer in 2021 was probably suitable and in Mr Ms best interest. 
In 2022, Mr M met with SJPs adviser to ensure his existing plans remained suitable and to 
review the level of income being drawn from his drawdown plan. That review noted that 
Mr M held £83,000 from an inheritance from his father. The recommendation that followed 
the review was to maintain the same level of income being drawn from your Retirement 
Account because you will start taking an income from your company pension scheme this 
April when you reach the scheme retirement age. You would like to take the opportunity to 
amalgamate your existing plans to reduce the administrative burden and release some tax 
free cash to fund the purchase of a new car.
Following the review meeting Mr M received an updated quotation from the other provider 
about his pension review guarantee plan. He told the adviser that its value had risen 
considerably and wanted to know the charges involved in switching the plan to SJP and 
whether he could take the TFC later if he didnt take it up front. However, although the 
adviser made it clear that, if I cannot quantify the loss (to Mr M) and conduct the analysis, 
then I will not recommend a transfer, she said she would ask the other provider how the 
guarantee was calculated to see how much Mr M might lose by transferring.
But Mr Ms circumstances hadnt really changed from the year before apart from not 
requiring any more income before drawing his company pension in two months time. So in 
the absence of any new compelling reasons to transfer I think SJP - unless it could conduct 
analysis showing that a transfer would be in Mr Ms best interest, would be more likely than 
not to decline the transfer on the grounds that it still wasnt suitable. As Ive already said the 
complexity of the required calculation meant that SJP was unwilling to conduct a pension 
transfer analysis report and the adviser seemingly suggested it may be best to wait until he 
needs to access then benefits.
So looking at the situation both in 2021 and 2022 I dont think it was unreasonable for SJP, 
based on the information it gathered and recorded, to recommend the pension review 
guarantee plan wasnt transferred to the drawdown plan Mr M held with it. 
But Mr M says that the only reason he didnt take his benefits from the other provider or 
transfer them to SJP was that the adviser told him the value would only increase so he 
didnt think there was any problem in deferring the transfer. He said he was shocked by 
subsequent falls in the value of the plan. 
So Ive gone on to consider both the recommendation not to transfer the benefits and what 
Mr M might have done in light of a clearer and fuller explanation of what could happen to the 
fund value of the other guarantee plan. 
The recommendation not to take the pension review guarantee benefits
The situation here is that, at any given time, the value of the other PPP is somewhat moot as 
it simply reflects how much would be required in order to replace the benefits Mr M gave up 
from not being in his employers pension scheme. In other words how much would be 
needed to provide an annuity which matched the pension income he would have received if 
he had joined the scheme. This calculation is affected by a number of factors  of which 
interest rates are one. But the income that Mr M would receive when he decided to take his 
benefits from the provider would still be the same regardless. In 2022 the amount required by the provider to provide the benefits was significantly higher 
than previous illustrations had noted, so it provided Mr M with an unlikely opportunity to 
crystallise this gain either by transferring the value to another provider or drawing the 
benefits using one of a number of options directly from the provider. As Ive already 
explained the first option wasnt going to be available from SJP as the transfer was unlikely 
to be suitable without a compelling reason  which the adviser wasnt provided with at that 
time. But the second option was available to Mr M directly  as was set out in the illustrations 
he received from the other provider.
 
The illustration set out the fund value and the options available to Mr M. It stated that its 
possible to take all of your pension pot as a cash lump sum, but there can be serious tax 
implications if you do so. if you dont want to take all of your pension pot in one go you can 
leave your money invested and make withdrawals when you need to. The illustration then 
directed Mr M to a number of telephone numbers and a website where he could obtain 
further information about his quotation and take the necessary steps to draw his benefits 
under one of the available options. Mr M would have been advised to consider taking 
financial advice by the provider but there were no restrictions to him taking his benefits 
directly, nor would SJP have been able to prevent him doing so either. 
So Mr M would have been at liberty to draw the enhanced benefits when he received his 
illustration if he wasnt persuaded that SJP were acting in his best interest and if he simply 
wanted to take advantage of the significantly higher transfer value available at that time. 
I have also considered whether the SJP adviser ought to have told Mr M to draw his benefits 
directly in any case, but I think that would have been acting outside of her scope of advice. I 
think her general view of not drawing benefits unless there was a good reason is probably 
the right approach here.  Had she told Mr M to draw the benefits and the fund value had 
risen even further then Mr M would have had grounds for complaint that hed been given 
unsuitable advice which had caused him to suffer a financial disadvantage.  
    
The fundamental problem that faced Mr M here was that he thought it made good sense for 
him to take advantage of the higher transfer value on offer. It would after all have provided 
greater TFC if nothing else. But SJP could only recommend a transfer of that value into its 
plan if it was in Mr Ms best interest. And as Ive stated SJP was unable to complete an 
analysis to make a suitable recommendation and in any case, based on charges alone, it 
would have been difficult for SJP to demonstrate Mr M would be better off by transferring. As 
the adviser confirmed in an email to Mr M, the other provider also offered a drawdown plan, 
a wide range of investments, and lower charges. So if Mr M wanted to transfer simply to 
access the TFC and then leave the residual funds invested, it was more likely than not that 
his existing provider would have provided a better outcome. 
So that left Mr M with the option of dealing with the original provider directly  which Ive 
touched upon above. But I have made one final consideration about what Mr M might have 
done if hed not been given misleading information about the likelihood of the existing 
guarantee plan continuing to increase. 
The question of the incorrect technical information
Ive thought carefully about this matter, and I think I should clarify what SJP said with 
regards to the guarantee. Im unable to determine what the adviser may have said to Mr M 
during telephone conversations, and Ive no reason to dispute his consistent assertion that 
he didnt draw the other PPP benefits because he was told they would likely only increase.
But I have seen two emails exchanges during which SJPs adviser  having sought advice 
from her technical department - suggested that might be the case. On 21 March 2022 she 
wrote this calculation will need to be done each time an illustration of benefits is requested, and therefore the amount of redress will increase. And on 17 May 2021, I recommend he 
should defer drawing on the pension fund, and it could continue to grow.
So, while the adviser didnt make any guarantees about the value of the other PPP, I think 
she raised expectations that it would be unlikely to fall. But in any case she didnt make it 
clear that it was the guarantee that Mr M would receive the equivalent benefits to the OPS 
that would remain  not that the fund value couldnt fall. As was made clear in a later email 
exchange between the other provider and SJP, the fund value could change because of 
many factors  but it would only ever reflect what was needed to provide the equivalent OPS 
benefits at Mr Ms retirement age.  
So Ive considered what Mr M would have done if SJP had been clearer and more accurate 
in what it said. First theres no evidence to suggest that SJP wouldnt have reached the 
same conclusion that the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr M. But if SJP had been clearer it 
would have needed to explain that, while Mr M would always receive an income equivalent 
to what he should have got from the OPS  which would be likely to rise over time, the fund 
that would represent that income could rise and fall depending on external factors  one of 
which was interest rates. This was the reality of the situation, and it wouldnt have been 
possible for SJP or Mr M to know whether the fund value would be higher or lower from year 
to year. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr M would have done at that point and Im not 
persuaded he would have acted differently. I say that because, if presented with a 
recommendation not to transfer, from an adviser that he clearly valued and trusted at that 
time, I think he would have acted in the same way. It was only the receipt of a new quote 
which set out a significantly lower transfer value that alerted Mr M to a problem. 
Unfortunately by that time it would have been too late to have revisited the original higher 
valuation and drawn the benefits.
I think, quite understandably, Mr M was shocked by what had happened and realised he had 
lost an opportunity to secure the higher value  but I dont think that means he would have 
acted any differently if SJP hadnt given misleading information. I dont dispute that Mr M 
intended to take the benefits as a lump sum as he set out in his email of 13 February 2022, 
which says clearly the plan is to take the lump sum as for annuity purposes it would take 53 
years to recoup this amount. But Im not persuaded he would have gone to the other 
provider at that point and drawn them directly if SJP hadnt given misleading information. 
Of course Ive taken into account that Mr M says he was assured the value of the plan 
wouldnt fall so if hed know it was possible for it to fall, he would almost certainly have taken 
the offer that was available to him at that time. And I appreciate that he had consistently 
followed advice that SJP had given him. But I think SJP made it clear both in 2021 and 2022 
that it couldnt recommend a transfer, and nothing that Mr M did subsequently supports the 
claim that he would have gone directly to the other provider and taken his benefits if SJP had 
made it clear that the fund value could fall in the future. 
The delay in answering the complaint and SJPs offer 
Mr M says that SJP has been unprofessional in answering his complaint. He said it took 
SJP five months to respond which meant he missed another opportunity to take the benefits 
from his other plan because each illustration is only valid for three months. He is concerned 
that each new illustration he requests will show another fall in the fund value. 
I can understand why Mr M is frustrated by the delay in answering his complaint. SJP itself 
has acknowledged that it should have responded sooner and has included an element of compensation within its overall offer to reflect the delay. But Mr M has still been able to refer 
his complaint to us within the timescales set out and this hasnt affected our ability to 
consider his complaint. And Mr M hasnt been restricted from accepting any of the quotation 
offers he received from the PPP provider during this time. 
We would have expected Mr M to have mitigated his position in this situation and Ive seen 
no evidence to support the idea that Mr M couldnt have taken his benefits at any stage. As 
Ive said previously SJP set out its position that a transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best interest  
which I think was a suitable recommendation. So if Mr M wanted to accept a higher fund 
value he could have considered taking his benefits directly in any case.
SJP have offered the sum of £500 for any distress and inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect technical information it provided about the guarantee within the other PPP. It also 
offered a further £150 for the delays in responding to the complaint. Ive thought about this 
offer carefully and Ive come to the conclusion that its within the range of what Id expect to 
see for an error such as this. And while complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and 
therefore not something we would usually award compensation for, I think the sum of £150 is 
fair and reasonable in respect of a delay in responding to a complaint for which SJP hasnt 
provided a robust explanation.
Putting things right
Overall I think the sum of £650 is a fair and reasonable resolution for both the error SJP 
made and the delay in responding to Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay £650 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay £650.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman