DRN-2548449
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car acquired with finance from Oodle Financial Services Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle. 
Mrs B experienced issues with the car and contacted Oodle. The car was returned to the 
supplying dealer and an independent inspection was arranged. This found that there were 
no faults. However, following the inspection, and after collecting the car from the supplying 
dealer, the bonnet started smoking and coolant leaked from the car. Mrs B spoke to the 
supplying dealer and the car was recovered to the dealership. Mrs B says the dealer refused 
to accept the car, so it was left in a car park close by.
Following this, Mrs B requested to reject the car. This was declined on the basis that the 
independent inspection had found no faults. Mrs B said there had been further issues since 
the inspection. Oodle arranged for a second inspection to take place. It asked the supplying 
dealer to arrange for the car to be recovered to the supplying dealers premises so the 
inspection could take place. Mrs B was asked to send a key to the supplying dealer so the 
inspection could be carried out. However, the supplying dealer refused to co-operate and as 
a result the inspection was carried out in the car park.
The inspection concluded that the car should be returned to the supplying dealer for repairs 
to the radiator.
The supplying dealer said it wasnt prepared to assist any further. Mrs B continued to chase 
Oodle throughout September 2019. Oodle contacted the supplying dealer in October 2019 
and advised it that based on the second inspection report, Mrs B had grounds to reject the 
car. Oodle then advised Mrs B that it had begun the process of cancelling the finance 
agreement.
It was at this point that it was realised that the car had gone missing. Enquiries revealed that 
the local council had removed the car.
Oodle now says that Mrs B should be liable for the balance under the agreement on the 
grounds that she abandoned the car and breached the terms and conditions by leaving it 
uninsured.
Our investigator didnt think Oodle had acted fairly. He said that if Mrs B had received more 
help from Oodle, the car might not have been left in the car park and gone missing. The 
investigator said Oodle shouldnt hold Mrs B liable for the outstanding amount and that the 
agreement should be unwound as originally agreed.
 
Oodle didnt agree. It said that Mrs B hadnt met the terms of the contractual agreement 
because she failed to keep the car insured. It said that whilst it understood that the car was 
left close to the supplying dealers premises, it was Mrs Bs responsibility to look after the 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Oodle agreed to accept a 
rejection of the car following the second independent inspection.
The issue here is whether Mrs B should be responsible for the outstanding balance under 
the finance agreement.
Oodle has said that Mrs B abandoned the car in the car park, that she cancelled her 
insurance and removed her details from the logbook before she knew that the decision to 
allow her to reject the car had been made. It provided information to show that the car was 
reported to the police as abandoned, and that following police checks on the car which 
showed the previous keepers details only, the police asked the local council to remove the 
car. the car was removed on 7 October 2019.
Ive looked at the circumstances in which the car came to be left in the car park. Based on 
what Ive seen, following the first inspection and subsequent faults with the car, the 
supplying dealer refused to accept the car back, so it was left in a nearby car park. Mrs B 
has said that it was Oodle who advised her to leave the car in the car park whilst it contacted 
the supplying dealer.
I havent been able to listen to any of the calls between Mrs B and Oodle from around this 
time, so I cant be certain of exactly what was said. However, its clear from what Oodle has 
told this service that it was aware that the car had been left in the car park. Oodle has also 
acknowledged that it advised Mrs B to send the keys back to the supplying dealer so the 
second inspection could be carried out.
I dont think its fair to say that Mrs B abandoned the car in these circumstances. Im satisfied 
that Oodle was aware of the location of the car. As soon as it became clear that the 
supplying dealer wasnt co-operating, I think Oodle should have taken steps to recover the 
car from the car park to another garage, or to a secure location. Instead, due to the 
supplying dealers non-cooperation and delays by Oodle in reaching a decision on whether 
Mrs b could reject the car, the car remained in the car park. I think its reasonable to 
anticipate, given the length of time that the car remained there, that someone might report it 
as abandoned.
Although Oodle has said that Mrs B breached the agreement by failing to keep the car 
insured, Im not persuaded that this was the reason why the car was recovered by the 
council. Then information provided by the council suggest that it was asked to remove the 
car by the ;police after it had been reported as abandoned. 
Mrs B doesnt deny that she cancelled her insurance. She says she did this the day after she 
returned the keys to the supplying dealer, on or around 24 October 2019. I can see that 
Oodle had already agreed a rejection by this time and had advised Mrs B that the unwind 
process would proceed. In the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs B to 
cancel her insurance. From her perspective, a rejection had been agreed.
Its unfortunate that the car was removed by the council. But theres nothing to suggest that Mrs B was aware of this. Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont think its fair to 
hold Mrs B liable for the balance under the finance agreement. Based on what Ive seen, 
Oodle knew the car was parked in the car park. As soon as Oodle became aware that the 
supplying dealer wasnt co-operating by taking the car back on its premises for repairs, it 
should have arranged to recover the car to an alternative garage.  
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Oodle should hold Mrs B liable for the 
balance under the finance agreement. It should allow a rejection of the car and unwind the 
agreement as previously agreed with Mrs B.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must 
unwind the agreement as previously agreed with Mrs B.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman