DRN-2178451
The complaint
Ms D, trading as a sole proprietor with the business name S, complains that WorldPay (UK) 
Limited attempted to apply chargeback claims for Ss business account that she feels are 
unjustified.
What happened
S had merchant acquiring accounts with WorldPay to process business transactions.
In May 2019, S told its customers that the business was going to cease to trade because of 
financial difficulties. However, Ms D found a potential buyer which would look to take over 
Ss business. 
In June 2019, the assets of S were acquired by another company. The purchase included 
provisions to allow services that S had been providing to its customers to continue.
 
However, through this time a number of these customers applied for chargeback requests 
for money they had paid to S for its services. These had been processed in August and 
September 2018, and in March 2019. A chargeback request is a way that a consumer could 
ask their credit or debit card issuer to reverse payments made on their card. The reason 
given was that the services paid for had not been received. 
WorldPay sent S notice of each of these chargebacks and asked S to provide evidence so 
that it could attempt to defend the requests.
Ms D contended them. She said that she had notified Ss customers that the services were 
going to continue to be provided by the purchasing company. Ms D felt that she hadnt been 
given enough time to respond to WorldPay; the letters had come at the time she was dealing 
with the sale of the business or was away on holiday. 
But WorldPay said it didnt receive enough evidence to defend the chargebacks for all that 
had been claimed. Two payments were partially defended in that some of the services paid 
for were accepted as being received, but the remaining payments were refunded to the 
customers. It said that it didnt believe that it couldve done anything more to defend the 
chargebacks on Ss behalf. 
In July 2019, WorldPay was notified that the direct debit instruction for Ss account had been 
cancelled and this meant it was unable to claim the balance of the chargebacks and its 
invoices for the merchant acquiring services. The accounts were closed in August 2019. But 
WorldPay said there was an outstanding balance of £9,526.49 owing. It said the terms of the 
agreement are clear about the responsibilities of the merchant. 
Ms D would like all the chargeback claims dropped and for the amounts WorldPay is 
reclaiming to be cancelled. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She reviewed Ss agreement with 
WorldPay for the merchant acquiring services, and this said that the merchant agreed to 
accept responsibility for chargebacks, which were considered a debt immediately due. The 
investigator said that WorldPay was obliged under this agreement to contact the merchant 
and give an opportunity to defend a chargeback. She said that it had met this by sending S 
letters about each chargeback claimed. Although Ms D felt the time she was given to 
respond wasnt enough, given the timescales for actioning a chargeback under the card 
schemes rules, the investigator didnt think the response time given was unreasonable.
The investigator looked into the situation of each chargeback and overall, she felt WorldPay 
had defended the elements of the chargebacks that it could. The investigator acknowledged 
that Ms D had said that the customers hadnt approached her directly before raising the 
chargebacks, but this wasnt something that WorldPay was responsible for because, under 
the various card schemes, the customers could raise the chargeback claims and WorldPay 
had an obligation to deal with them.
 
Ms D didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that the terms and conditions said 
that a chargeback can only be granted after a dispute had been raised between the 
merchant and the customer, and this hadnt happened, so she wasnt given the opportunity 
to rectify their complaints. She said, she had a buyer for the business and its customers 
were told that the services would continue. Ms D said that all the customers who received 
the chargeback had been provided with access to the services they had paid for. She said 
she spoke to WorldPay on numerous occasions about the chargebacks but at no time was 
she contacted about any missing documentation. Ms D didnt accept that shed been given 
enough time to respond to the claims. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has provided a significant amount of information in relation to the chargeback claims 
made against S and about the sale of Ss business assets. This was Ms Ds business so I 
can fully appreciate that this will have understandably been a worrying time for her 
personally. 
The chargebacks came at a time when the business was having significant difficulties and 
was undergoing changes. And I can understand Ms Ds strength of feeling about how she 
was looking to maintain the services that S was providing to its customers.
 
WorldPay provided merchant acquiring services to S through this time, and Ive considered 
the terms of the agreement. In relation to chargebacks, these say:
You are liable for each Chargeback and these represent a debt immediately payable from 
you to us. Please refer to the Customer Operating Instructions for further information about 
Chargebacks including the process for disputing a Chargeback. It may not always be 
possible however for you to dispute Chargebacks successfully, even where you have 
provided goods or services. This is a risk of your business, which you accept.
I can see that, following each chargeback claim it received, WorldPay wrote to S with the 
details of the disputed transaction. These letters asked S to provide all information held 
regarding the transaction to attempt to defend it. This needed to be provided within 12 days 
from the date of the letter.
 
I appreciate why Ms D feels that this was not long enough, and that there were occasions 
when she was away and so there was a delay in her receiving the letter. But, given the 
process required under each card schemes rules, I dont think this timescale was unreasonable to allow WorldPay to be in a position to consider the information and look to 
see whether it was reasonable to defend each claim. Ultimately though, it would be the 
relevant card scheme that decides whether the chargeback is successful or not. 
I can see that Ms D made WorldPay aware of the pending sale of the business and the 
circumstances in which it was intended for the buyer to be able to continue to provide the 
services S had been paid for. She looked to give the details of the services provided and 
completed by the specific customers. However, this wasnt always in the time frames 
WorldPay gave her. And, where a response was provided in time, WorldPay found that this 
position either wasnt sufficient to defend the claims fully or was only enough to partially 
defend them.
I can understand that Ms D feels that the customers hadnt approached her themselves 
before making the chargeback claims, and so S wasnt given the opportunity to respond to 
the customers directly first. But this wasnt either the fault or responsibility of WorldPay. My 
decision here is about the actions of WorldPay in response to the chargeback claims. And, 
taking everything into account, I think it has followed the correct process in response to the 
chargeback claims made against S. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman