DRN-2631461
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J are unhappy with the delays and the cash settlement Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) offered when they claimed under their building insurance for 
water damage. 
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J claimed under their buildings insurance, underwritten by Lloyds, following an 
escape of water which damaged their kitchen floor. The policy was in joint names but, for 
ease, Ill refer only to Mr J throughout my decision.
Lloyds accepted the claim, but Mr J was unhappy that it couldnt arrange for drying 
equipment sooner than it did. Because of that, he instructed a contractor to install 
dehumidifiers, quote for repairs and complete the work. However, Mr J was unhappy with the 
amount Lloyds offered to settle the claim because it was around £2000 less than hed paid. 
Lloyds said some of the work completed wasnt on its schedule of repairs and it maintained 
its offer to pay what it wouldve cost it to do the repairs. But, because of its delays reviewing 
the quote and its unclear communication with Mr J, Lloyds offered £200 by way of apology. 
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do any more. She agreed that the £200 
payment for the delays was fair given the delays Mr J experienced, but she didnt think it was 
wrong of Lloyds to try to validate the cost of the claim.
Mr J didnt agree. He said Lloyds didnt visit the property to assess the damage, meaning its 
valuation of the repair work was flawed. He also repeated his complaint about Lloyds 
delays, lack of support, shortfall in the settlement and its compensation payment.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr J is unhappy that Lloyds offered him a cash settlement figure around £2000 short of the 
cost of repairs. Lloyds offered Mr J the amount it wouldve cost it to complete the repairs.
The policy provides for Lloyds to decide whether to settle a claim by completing the repair 
work or by cash. Here, Mr J wanted to use his own contractor and asked Lloyds to cash 
settle his claim. In these circumstances, the policy states that Lloyds need only pay what it 
wouldve cost it to complete the repairs using its own contractors. So, Lloyds prepared a 
schedule of works and offered Mr J around £3500. He disputed the amount and provided a 
copy of his own contractors quote. On review, Lloyds agreed it hadnt allowed for some of 
the work and increased its offer to a little over £5000. 
I can understand that Mr J preferred to use the contractor who originally laid his floor and 
because of Lloyds delays, but Lloyds believed it couldve completed the repair work for 
around £2000 less than Mr Js contractor. So, its cash settlement offer, equal to its own 
estimate for the repair work, is in line with the policy terms. I cant say that Lloyds did 
anything wrong here.
Mr J doesnt think that he wouldve needed to use his own contractor if Lloyds had dealt with 
his claim better. It was a little over two weeks from the date that Mr J told Lloyds the leak 
was fixed (so repairs could begin) to the date he made a complaint about its service and 
confirmed hed got his own quote for repairs. Its worth noting here that the quote Mr J 
supplied includes the rental cost of dehumidifiers for a period which started before he 
reported the leak to Lloyds and ended on the day he complained that its cash settlement 
offer wasnt enough. This information suggests that repair work couldnt have started sooner 
because the drying process had only just finished. I accept that Mr J preferred to use his 
own contractor and seek a cash settlement, but that means Lloyds was entitled to offer a 
sum equal to its own costs in line with the policy.
Mr J paid his contractor more than Lloyds offered so he is unhappy that its delays caused 
him to be out of pocket by £2000. Lloyds hasnt disputed that it wasnt able to send a 
contractor sooner than Mr J arranged for his, or that its communication with him couldve 
been better. Ive looked at the timescales provided by both Mr J and Lloyds and I agree that 
there were some avoidable delays. I understand Lloyds was restricted by Government rules 
in place at the time which contributed to the delays. That said, Lloyds accepted its service 
wasnt as good as it shouldve been and paid Mr J £200 compensation. I realise that he 
doesnt think thats enough, but I must be clear that the payment isnt to compensate for the 
shortfall in the cash settlement. It is in recognition of the shortfalls in service. And given that 
Mr J chose to use his own contractor for the repair work, most of his contact with Lloyds was 
regarding the cash settlement figure, rather than completion of work. For that reason, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds offer of compensation was reasonable in the circumstances and I wont 
be asking it to increase the amount.
The remaining issue is that Mr J paid more for the repairs than Lloyds offered as settlement. 
I understand that he thinks Lloyds shouldve inspected the damage to determine the cost of 
repairs, but the real issue is the lack of clarity around the repairs already done. Lloyds 
provided an itemised schedule of works so theres clarity about the repairs it is covering with 
the cash settlement. But Lloyds hasnt said it wont increase the settlement  it has asked for 
an itemised breakdown so it could assess the repair work Mr Js contractor has already 
completed to identify whether it missed something which shouldve been covered under the 
policy. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to pay for repairs it couldnt be sure the policy covered so I 
think its response is fair. 
In summary, while there were some delays at the start of the claim, for which Lloyds fairly 
compensated Mr J, Im satisfied that Lloydss made a cash settlement offer in line with the 
policy terms. Should Mr J wish to provide Lloyds with an itemised breakdown of the 
quote/work done, it has agreed to review his claim. I think thats fair and I wont be asking it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Debra VaughanOmbudsman