DRN-3472876
The complaint
Mrs F is complaining that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly provided her with a credit card and 
personal loan in February 2008. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute and were set out in detail by the investigator. The credit 
card appears to have started with a limit of £5,500 and was reduced several times and in 
August 2016, the limit was £3,200. The personal loan was for £25,000, from the limited 
information available, the initial loan repayment was £186.62 which then increased to 
£191.72.
Mrs F had difficulties repaying the loan and it went to recoveries in December 2009. Lloyds 
didnt uphold any part of Mrs Fs complaint but wrote off the outstanding balance of £2,700 
on her credit card which is slightly more than the total interest, fees and charges on the 
credit card.
The investigator didnt think there was sufficient information from the time of sale to 
determine that Lloyds provided credit to Mrs F when it shouldnt have. However, she thought 
that Mrs Fs use of her credit card account was concerning, and Lloyds shouldnt have 
increased her credit limit in August 2016, and she recommended that Lloyds remove 
adverse information from Mrs Fs credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
its lending decisions, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont 
repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that 
Mrs F would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
Due to the time that has passed Lloyds has been unable to provide point of sale 
information at the time it agreed the credit card and loan. Theres no information 
available from either party about the checks Lloyds carried out before it lent or what it 
knew or ought to have known about Mrs F at the time. This means Im unable to fairly 
say Lloyds lent Mrs F the loan and approved the credit card when it shouldnt have done.
Looking at how Mrs F used her credit card account, Lloyds would have seen that Mrs F was 
only repaying the minimum and wasnt getting herself out of the debt, it responded to this by 
reducing the credit limit on several occasions, it however automatically increased the limit to 
£3,200. Mrs Fs account usage hadnt improved, and Lloyds could see that she was 
struggling to keep up with repayments as she had a number of late payments and was 
continuing to make the minimum.
In those circumstances it shouldnt have increased the limit. It is fair and reasonable for 
Lloyds to have written off the outstanding balance on the credit card but I also think that as it 
shouldnt have increased her limit in August 2016, it needs to amend the credit file entry to 
Mrs Fs limit prior to that increase and so her credit file doesnt reflect adverse information in 
relation to the limit increase in August 2016. Essentially Lloyds needs to backdate the default 
on Mrs Fs credit file to the date of her credit limit prior to the increase in August 2016.
Mrs F has said Lloyds lent to both her and her husband and that put a strain on them, she 
believes that Lloyds providing that much credit to both of them had negatively impacted their 
household finances. I can see that there is a separate complaint ongoing for Mrs Fs 
husband and so I wont be commenting on any issues in that case. I would say that both the 
credit card and the loan were lent to Mrs F and her husband individually and so the 
expectation would have been on Lloyds to take into account their individual circumstances 
when it agreed to lend. Lloyds lending to both Mrs F and her husband isnt on its own 
sufficient to say that it lent irresponsibly.
Mrs F has provided information to show that she is struggling financially and has done for a 
number of years and I can see that the lending from Lloyds has negatively impacted her. 
However, the available information is after the lending decisions have been made and 
I havent seen any information to suggest that Lloyds ought to have been aware of these 
circumstances when it lent. I appreciate that my findings will disappoint Mrs F but the limited 
information in this case, makes it difficult for me to say Lloyds was wrong to make the initial 
decisions to lend. I think it has taken positive steps to put things right on the credit card 
account, but I think it needs to amend Mrs Fs credit file accordingly.
Putting things right
Lloyds should amend Mrs Fs credit file in relation to the credit card. It should backdate the 
default to the date of the credit limit, prior to the limit increase in August 2016.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put 
things right as stated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman