DRN-3223848
The complaint
Mr A complains Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd didnt cancel his commercial taxi 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It is clear from the webchats Acorn has been able to provide me with, Mr A was 
having difficulty finding work as a taxi driver due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As I 
would have expected it to, Acorn advised Mr A he had three options at that time -  
continue with the policy as it can also be used for food/parcel deliveries, reduce the 
cover to social, domestic and pleasure or, suspend the policy.  Mr A didnt tell Acorn 
what he wanted to do so the policy was kept in force. I think that was reasonable, as I 
wouldnt expect an insurer to cancel a policy without explicit instruction to do so. 
Mr As policy was cancelled a few months later as a direct debit payment was 
missed. Mr A took out a new policy as a low deposit scheme was being offered. The 
new policy was on the same basis as the previous policy, covering both private hire 
and food/parcel delivery. Mr A chose this policy himself so I cant say Acorn set this 
up incorrectly. Notes at that point suggest Mr A mentioned he was going to try and 
find new work as a taxi driver, there is then mention of a security guard and finally a 
delivery driver. The policy Mr A held allowed for all of those possibilities.
Acorn explained to Mr A that if he only wanted cover for food/parcel deliveries he 
would need to cancel the existing policy and take out a new one.  Mr A instead 
suspended the policy while he was finding new work and then reinstated it on the 
same terms a month later.  Again, Acorn were acting on the instructions it was given, 
so I cant say it did anything wrong here.  It sent new policy documents to Mr A so he 
would have been aware under which terms he was insured.
While Mr A later updated his occupation to delivery driver, this wouldnt have 
changed the basis of the policy or alerted Acorn to cancel it  as the policy already 
provided coverage for deliveries. 
I appreciate Mr A found it difficult to find work, however I think Acorn did what it could 
to assist him, setting out his different options and following his instructions.
Mr A has said he wants his premium refunded however I dont think Acorn need to do 
this, the policy he had, provided insurance for the deliveries he was making and such 
he had the benefit of that insurance being in place. Additionally, even if he had of 
taken out a new policy for deliveries only, I think it is likely, based on the information 
available to me, that he would have paid around a similar amount in insurance. So, 
even if I had of found Acorn had done something wrong, I dont think its likely Mr A 
would have suffered a financial loss.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Acorn Insurance & 
Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman