DRN-4358783
The complaint
Mr M complains that First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) irresponsibly granted him 
a hire purchase agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In February 2018 Mr M acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from First 
Response. Mr M was required to make 42 monthly repayments of £213.98. The total amount 
repayable under the agreement was £8,987.16. Mr M believes First Response failed to 
complete adequate affordability checks. Mr M says that if it had it wouldve been clear the 
agreement wasnt affordable at the time.
First Response disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate assessment which included a 
full credit search, income verification via payslips, statistical estimation of his non-
discretionary expenditure and an income and expenditure check. Mr M confirmed that he 
was living with his parents, working full time as a recruitment consultant and had no 
committed expenditure apart from his existing credit. First Response said its searches 
showed Mr Ms existing borrowing levels were minimal and that he had very little in the way 
of committed expenditure. It assessed his net disposable income as £854.20 a month when 
factoring in an ongoing wage advance repayment and felt that the agreement was affordable 
as his outgoings were estimated as £363.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought First 
Responses checks were proportionate (bar one piece of information) and none of the 
information it gathered suggested that the lending shouldnt have been approved. 
Mr M and his representative didnt agree. His representative provided bank statements but 
provided no further comments as to why they disagreed with the opinion. They asked for an 
Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. First Response 
needed to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that First Response 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
affordable for Mr M before providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did First Response complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that     Mr M would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did First Response act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did First Response complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mr M took out his agreement 
with First Response.  Its rules and guidance obliged First Response to lend responsibly. First 
Response needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether a borrower 
could afford to meet its repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. This was set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's 
ability to repay the credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments without undue 
difficulty - using regular income, avoiding further borrowing to meet payments and making 
timely repayments over the life of the agreement without having to realise security or assets 
(CONC 5.3.1G (6)).
The FCA didnt specify what exact level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment. But it did say that the level of detail depended on the type of credit, the amount 
of credit being granted and the associated risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2.4G (2)).
So, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. Id expect a lender to 
seek more assurance the lower a persons income, the higher the amount of credit being 
applied for and the longer the term of the agreement.
First Response says that Mr Ms application underwent credit and underwriting checks, and 
these didnt raise any concerns. Mr M declared his income as £1300 a month. His income 
was verified further via payslips, and First Response acted conservatively when interpreting 
this data  choosing to state that his income was £854.20 instead of the quoted £1300 due 
to an existing wage advance repayment that was in place for a three-month period. It also 
combined Office for National Statistics (ONS) data with Mr Ms own account of his 
expenditure. 
Mr M told First Response that he had no housing costs, or utilities.  Its credit search showed 
a minimal amount of lending, but some defaulted sums which were being repaid. From the information it had gathered I think its estimation of £43 a month towards his existing credit 
was reasonable, as was its estimation of £363 for total monthly costs when Mr M had 
already confirmed he lived with his parents and did not contribute to household bills. 
This meant that First Response estimated Mr M had around £490 of disposable income 
before accounting for the agreement. However, it also applied a further 25% emergency cost 
buffer to this amount which meant it estimated around £368 disposable income. It ultimately 
decided on this basis that the agreement was affordable.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement, and the 
information in Mr Ms credit file, I think at first consideration First Responses checks were 
proportionate. If later details had not come to light, I dont feel that any further checks would 
have been required once it had completed its income and expenditure and found an excess 
disposable income of around £270 (including the emergency buffer) was available after 
paying towards the finance.
However, there is one notable piece of information which Mr M provided which I feel meant 
that First Response should have made further enquiries. At the time Mr M informed First 
Response that he had an existing car finance agreement in place which did not show on his 
credit file and was not incorporated into its completed income and expenditure check.
Its not clear from the contact notes available whether First Response ever asked Mr M 
about this agreement in any detail. The finance agreement was initially denied once Mr M 
had clarified that he felt he could not afford both agreements at the same time. But Mr M 
returned shortly after confirming that he was now considering voluntary termination of the 
first agreement and was also satisfied that he could now afford both at the same time. The 
agreement appears to have then been approved on this basis.
Im satisfied that this response would not have been sufficient to ensure that proportionate 
checks were completed in the circumstances. First Response should have asked for further 
details about this ongoing agreement and either confirmed outright that Mr M was ending the 
agreement or incorporated its cost into Mr Ms income and expenditure check. Im satisfied 
that proportionate checks would have led First Response to enquire further about this 
existing commitment and how it might impact the sustainable and affordable nature of the 
finance it was approving. Because of this Im not satisfied that the checks completed were 
proportionate.
Im satisfied First Response didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this 
doesnt automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr M could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
In this circumstance there is only one piece of information which First Response were 
missing in order to complete a proportionate check  namely the monthly outgoings for Mr 
Ms existing agreement. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ms representative providing us with bank 
statements, I dont feel that a complete revisit of Mr Ms income and expenditure should 
have been required at the time. First Response only needed to ask further questions about 
the ongoing car finance agreement, and so it is this information that Ive taken from the 
statements provided.
Ive considered what First Response would likely have found out if it had completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. As explained above, I think First 
Response requesting details about Mr Ms original finance agreement wouldve been 
proportionate in the circumstances. The bank statements provided by Mr M show the agreement in question cost around £172 a month. So, Ive looked at all the information First 
Response gathered at the point of sale and considered whether this figure should have 
made a difference to the lending decision.
Overall, Im satisfied that the lending decision was still a fair one. I say this because the 
income and expenditure check First Response completed was conservative. It factored in a 
wage advance that was at the point of ending and an additional 25% buffer beyond usual 
expenditure allowances. From my own calculations, if First Response had applied the 
income Mr M had expected to receive from his employer moving forward, he wouldve had 
£275 in disposable income once both car finance agreements had been factored in. Im 
satisfied that this allowed enough for emergency or unexpected costs  and that the lending 
decision was fair even if Mr M had ultimately chosen not to voluntarily terminate his original 
car finance agreement.
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable for Mr 
M. For this reason, Im not persuaded that First Response acted unfairly when approving the 
finance. Im satisfied that if First Response had completed proportionate checks it would 
have likely revealed Mr M was able to sustainably afford the repayments owed under the 
agreement. So, it follows that I think First Response made a fair lending decision.
Did First Response act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that First Response acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman