DRN-3705800
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about a claim they made on their DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy about how that claim was handled.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D made a claim on their DAS policy for help with a dispute with their neighbour. 
The dispute started when their neighbour built an extension. Mr and Mrs D said the 
neighbour didnt give them notice under the Party Wall Act 1996, that their property had 
been damaged and their neighbour had trespassed onto their land.
DAS considered the claim and referred the matter to their panel firm to consider further. The 
panel firm said certain elements of the claim were covered under the policy, but others were 
not. After further discussion with Mr and Mrs D the panel firm concluded that the elements of 
the claim that were covered didnt have reasonable prospects of success, as required by the 
insurance. Because of this they said there was no cover in place for Mr and Mrs D to pursue 
things with the benefit of DAS funding the matter.
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with the position. They say the panel firm didnt allow them to 
instruct an expert surveyor to help prove their case had reasonable prospects of success, 
nor did they provide them with an approved list of surveyors to enable them to do that. They 
acknowledge that they would have to bear the cost of an expert but feel theyd be able to 
claim this back if the claim was successful. They say they lodged a complaint with the panel 
firm about this but the response they received doesnt address the issues theyve raised.
Mr and Mrs D also say they dont know where they stand in terms of whether the panel firm 
are still acting for them or if they have permission to go to another solicitor under the terms 
of their policy.
Finally, they say theyve obtained a survey report from a party wall surveyor at their own 
expense which confirms that legal representation is required. They would like DAS to fund a 
letter before action to their neighbours and help them continue with their claim.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaints. He cited that Mr and Mrs D were 
unhappy with the way in which the panel firm had conducted the assessment of their claim, 
the timeliness at the beginning of the complaint and the communication style of the solicitor, 
which they found confusing. In addition, he acknowledged that Mr and Mrs D found the 
relationship between DAS and the panel firm confusing which caused them concern about 
the independence of the panel firm. Overall, he said Mr and Mrs D had asked us to consider 
whether theyd been treated fairly. After considering the foregoing the investigator concluded 
that we werent able to consider the conduct of the panel firm, including the quality of their 
legal advice, as this didnt fall within our remit. He signposted Mr and Mrs D to the Legal 
Ombudsman if they wished to complain about this.
He also said DAS were entitled to decline cover based on the advice they received from the 
panel firm and in accordance with the policy terms which required there to be reasonable 
prospects of success. He said that if Mr and Mrs D wanted DAS to reconsider their 
complaint, theyd need to obtain a favourable opinion on the merits of their claim from a 
comparable lawyer and present that to DAS. 
On the issue of conflicts, the investigator pointed out that the panel firm was independent of 
DAS and had its own set of rules and a separate regulator. In addition, he said hed not seen 
anything that made him think anything untoward had happened. 
Finally, the investigator concluded that a decision on cover wasnt available by the deadline 
set out in accordance with the date Mr and Mrs D requested. He said that the claim was 
submitted relatively close to the deadline they imposed so DAS werent at fault for not 
providing an answer on cover before the deadline had passed.
In response to the investigators view, Mr and Mrs D made several assertions. They said:
Theyd approached this Service because they didnt receive a response to their 
complaint from DAS when they raised it.
The communications they sent via the complaints portal to DAS were forwarded to the 
panel firm, but calls were not returned.
The relationship between DAS and the panel firm remains confusing and doesnt 
function as it should.
They havent received any clear responses from DAS or the panel firm.
The investigator addressed those points in so far as he said that DAS and the panel firm 
were separate organisations and that DAS werent responsible for the panel firm not 
responding to them. He also said hed refer the matter to an Ombudsman to consider as Mr 
and Mrs Ds response indicated they werent happy with the outcome hed reached. As such 
the matter was passed to me to decide. 
In response to the investigator, Mr and Mrs D made some additional points which were not 
addressed further by the investigator. They are summarised as follows:
There are two separate complaint portals for DAS and the panel firm with different email 
addresses. The complaints to the panel firm were regarding their actions in appointing a 
solicitor who they believed wasnt conducting their claim in the way they expected. But 
they also notified DAS of the problems they experienced because they appointed the 
panel firm to administer the policy. Theyve not received a response from either DAS or 
the panel firm.
The system between DAS and the panel firm isnt working independently.
DAS are forwarding complaints meant for them to the panel firm. This seems to be an 
internal forward as they received an email saying their complaint to DAS has been 
received by the panel firm, but they havent heard back from DAS which is who the 
complaint was intended for.
They werent given permission by the panel firm to obtain their own expert opinion of a 
surveyor which they feel there is provision for within the policy. 
The panel firm told them they knew nothing about the terms theyd quoted which is why 
their complaint was made to DAS.They question how their claim can be successful if theyre not allowed to commission a 
report of an expert surveyor at their own expense. DAS havent addressed this issue.
DAS policy has unfair conditions which deprive policyholders of gathering all necessary 
evidence to give their claim a chance of success.
After considering everything, I issued my provisional findings to both parties by email. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint but for additional reasons 
to those reached by the investigator.
Ive recited the history of this complaint in some detail above. And Ive had the benefit of 
reviewing the correspondence between the panel firm and Mr and Mrs D, so I understand 
the issues theyre complaining about.
The complaint that was brought to us by Mr and Mrs D initially isnt what was addressed by 
the investigator in his view. And some of the matters Mr and Mrs D have raised since the 
investigator issued his view are different in nature to those initially put to this Service. 
Ordinarily we would say that we cant address new complaint points that are raised later in 
the lifetime of a complaint with our Service. Thats usually because a business wouldnt have 
had the opportunity to address those complaint points later on down the line. But in this case 
DAS didnt issue a final response letter addressing the original complaints raised by them. 
Mr and Mrs D were entitled to complain to our Service because eight weeks had elapsed 
since they raised their complaint with DAS and our rules say we can investigate a complaint 
from that point onwards. So, I dont think DAS are in any way prejudiced from my addressing 
all of the matters Mr and Mrs D have raised in the round- particularly because I have enough 
information available to me to do so.
Given the informal nature of our Service, its not appropriate for me to address every single 
point theyve raised individually. So, Ive grouped together the things theyre unhappy about 
under the headings below and provided my view on those matters accordingly.
The Panel Firm
Its right that its not within our remit to comment on the advice or actions of the panel firm. 
As the investigator explained, they are a separate firm of professionals to DAS with their own 
set of rules and a different regulator. So, any complaints about the advice or actions of the 
Solicitor appointed would need to be directed to them in the first instance and then to the 
Legal Ombudsman. 
I can see from the correspondence between Mr and Mrs D that they have raised their 
complaints about the actions of the Solicitor instructed with the panel firm directly throughout 
the life of the claim and this was addressed both by the Solicitor herself and a Senior 
Associate at that firm. And I understand that Mr and Mrs D are seeking further recourse with 
the Legal Ombudsman in respect of their concerns.
What I can consider in relation to the panel firm is DAS actions in respect of Mr and Mrs Ds 
specific complaints. Having done so Im not persuaded that DAS did anything wrong. The 
Solicitor they appointed was suitably qualified and experienced in the area of work she was 
advising on. So although Mr and Mrs D are concerned about this, I dont think they did 
anything wrong by appointing her.When Mr and Mrs D started corresponding with DAS about their concerns with the panel 
firm, DAS contacted the panel firm to ask them to address those concerns in the first 
instance and contact Mr and Mrs D to discuss things. This happened on at least two 
occasions. Thats exactly what I would expect from an insurer. Thats because DAS arent 
legal experts and they werent privy to the advice Mr and Mrs D were receiving so it was 
sensible for them to ask the panel firm to address things before DAS could consider whether 
any further action was necessary on its part. 
From what I can see, the panel firm did follow through on these requests. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied after the panel firm addressed matters, but DAS werent 
able to confirm their position on things before Mr and Mrs D referred their complaints to this 
Service. Thats because the panel firm had yet to provide their final answer on things. So 
whilst I know this was frustrating for Mr and Mrs D, I dont think DAS did anything wrong by 
not providing them with their final answer on the panel firms conduct when Mr and Mrs D 
asked them to.
I can also consider Mr and Mrs Ds complaint (as against DAS) that they werent allowed to 
instruct an expert surveyor to help prove their case had reasonable prospects of success, 
nor that they provided them with an approved list of surveyors to enable them to do that. 
Theyve referred to the policy terms in this regard and say that permission is required from 
DAS for a report to be obtained but the panel firm knew nothing about this. The term they 
seem to be referring to is:
Expert Opinion
We may require you to get, at your own expense, an opinion from an expert that we consider 
appropriate, on the merits of the claim or proceedings, or on a legal principle. The expert 
must be approved in advance by us and the cost agreed in writing between you and us. 
Subject to this, we will pay the cost of getting the opinion if the experts opinion indicates that 
it is more likely than not that you will recover damages (or obtain any other legal remedy that 
we have agreed to) or make a successful defence.
It's true that in this case the panel firm determined there wasnt any evidence to show they 
had a claim with reasonable prospects of success. Advice was provided on the issue of right 
to light issue as follows:
You do have the option of instructing an expert but the cost of such a report is unlikely to be 
funded by (DAS) for the reason explained above. There is also no guarantee that you will 
recover the cost of such a report even if your claim against (your neighbour) is successful. If 
you intend on instructing an expert at your own cost, I suggest that you refer any potential 
experts (and their likely fee) to me so that I may consider if they are suitably qualified and 
their fee is reasonable. If course if you obtain expert evidence I am more than happy to 
review it and reconsider your prospects if successfully pursuing a claim against (your 
neighbour).
Advice was also provided on the damage aspect complained of by Mr and Mrs D. The panel 
firm asked for something in writing form a roofing contractor in the first instance that might 
help support their claim. The Solicitor also said she was happy to consider anything from a 
surveyor in this regard. She provided some advice on what should be commented on if Mr 
and Mrs D wanted to get further advice at their own expense. And she pointed out that any 
surveyor that Mr and Mrs D wanted to instruct should be suitably qualified so referred them 
to the RICS website. She also invited them to come back to her for any advice or guidance 
on instructions to the surveyor.I appreciate Mr and Mrs D might have felt this didnt amount to approval of an expert in 
advance in accordance with the policy terms so I can see why they might have been worried 
about this but equally I cant see that they specifically referred DAS or the panel firm to this 
term and asked for them to confirm their position on it. And given what the panel firm had 
said, I think it could reasonably be taken to mean they were free to instruct a suitable expert 
based on the advice given. It was after all made clear to Mr and Mrs D that they wouldnt 
necessarily be reimbursed for the cost of that report by DAS and Mr and Mrs D 
acknowledged that. Because of this I dont think I can say DAS did anything wrong here.
Survey report and prospects of success
I can see that despite their confusion about approval not being provided for an expert, Mr 
and Mrs D proceeded to obtain expert evidence at their own expense. I have seen the 
photographic record of condition they obtained as well as the panel firms position in relation 
to it. 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy, like virtually all other before the event insurance policies requires 
there to be reasonable prospects of recovery and success. We dont think this is unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurance to fund 
claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly, So long as 
they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
DAS did this. The panel firms advice was that Mr and Mrs Ds claim still didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success despite the expert evidence they provided. In particular, 
the Solicitor said:
Unfortunately the record of condition does not alter my advice in relation to cover under 
your legal expenses insurance policy...
I agree that the schedule of condition highlights a number of vulnerable details about the 
works completed by your neighbours and unsatisfactory condition of certain sections of the 
roof detail but it does not specify that damage has been caused to your property as a result, 
or that it poses a serious and imminent risk of damage. It is not enough to
say that works have not been carried out to a satisfactory standard or that improvement are 
required. To establish a legal nuisance, the risk of damage or interference must be serious 
and imminent
In light of the above, my advice remains that there is currently not a claim against your 
neighbours that is covered by your legal expenses insurance policy. You do have the option 
of instructing a surveyor to investigate the works and provide an opinion on whether these 
works have caused damage, or pose a serious and imminent risk of damage, to your 
property. However, as I have previously explained, there is no guarantee that a surveyor will 
come to that conclusion and therefore provide sufficient evidence to successfully pursue a 
claim against your neighbours in nuisance and/or for property damage.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs D have obtained any further expert evidence but if they havent 
done so, I think its reasonable for DAS to rely on the advice provided by the panel firm- 
namely that there arent currently any reasonable prospects of success in pursuing a claim. 
If Mr and Mrs D do obtain any further advice or indeed a contrary legal opinion from 
someone comparably suitably qualified to the panel Solicitor, then they should present this to 
DAS for further consideration. Id expect DAS to consider matters again at that juncture- indeed the panel Solicitor also offered to do this. 
DAS and the Panel Firm
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D have found the relationship between DAS and the panel firm 
confusing. The fact that they share a similar name doesnt help matters. But they are 
separate legal entities with their own separate set of rules and regulators.
Its right that the panel firm has a relationship with DAS to the extent that  they share 
information relevant to policy coverage and that DAS does the same. But thats not unusual. 
The panel firm would be bound by separate terms of appointment from DAS in order to act 
for Mr and Mrs D in accordance with the policy terms- failing which funding wouldnt be 
provided. This in itself doesnt mean theres anything untoward about the way in which those 
two organisations interact.
And as Ive said above, I would expect an insurer to refer a complaint about the panel firms 
handling of a claim to the panel firm to consider in the first instance, which is what happened 
here and why DAS didnt respond on the substance of the complaint to Mr and Mrs D. 
Because of this I dont think I can say they treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D say the panel firm didnt respond to them when they should 
have but as Ive explained, thats not something I can deal with. Rather that should be 
addressed with the panel firm and then the Legal Ombudsman if they remain dissatisfied.
Both parties responded to my provisional findings immediately after they were issued. DAS 
have said they have nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs D have also responded. They 
disagree with the outcome Ive reached. Ive summarised their points theyve made below, 
some of which are a repetition of their earlier complaint points.
Their biggest concern was that DAS didnt respond to their correspondence and this 
remains the case.
Its true that correspondence to DAS contained references to the panel firm but it was 
clear from that correspondence that they were asking DAS for a response.
The policy instructions generated by the seller of the policy were clear and they gave all 
documents regarding this to this Service and all instructions and emails sent to DAS 
were sent to the correct address. That address was provided on a live portal by DAS 
themselves. The panel firm has a separate complaint address.
Theyre not confused about DAS and the panel firm being separate companies. They 
think its unreasonable for complaints sent to DAS to be forwarded to the panel firm and 
for DAS to have failed to respond to their correspondence.
The policy clearly states DAS has control over whether a specialist expert could be 
appointed. They want to know why DAS didnt respond to them on this point.
Ive said this Service is independent of the legal side of things yet in the decision I use 
unproven claims made by the panel firm.
Ive made my decision based on the comments of the panel firm not the policy terms, 
which Ive ignored. 
Insurers are putting policyholders at a disadvantage if they dont comply with their own 
terms, but they fail to respond to correspondence.This Service is putting policyholders at a disadvantage by not investigating the failure of 
insurers to adhere to their own policy terms or holding them to account for failing to 
respond to correspondence from a policyholder.
The decision has become embroiled in the unfounded, unproven legal aspects of the 
case which is not this Services responsibility.
This Service is acting as a buffer between the panel firm and Mr and Mrs D leaving DAS 
to do as they please.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs Ds complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Thats they havent persuaded me that my provisinal findings were incorrect.
I appreciate my decision has caused Mr and Mrs D disappointment. And I know they feel 
that their complaint hasnt been answered. I set out the chronology of how their various 
complaints unfolded in the What happened section of both this decision and my provisional 
decision. In that I pointed out that their original complaint wasnt the same as the points 
theyd brought to us to consider. Likewise, the points theyve made in response to the 
provisional decision are on the whole, different to the points they originally brought to this 
Service. Notwithstanding that, Ive looked to address all of them in the round because DAS 
werent prejudiced by not being able to respond. Thats because they hadnt provided a final 
response letter either before or after the matter was referred to us. 
Ive already explained why Mr and Mrs D didnt receive the final response letter in respect of 
their complaints so I dont intend to repeat the reasons for this, but I dont think this 
prejudiced them. And I cant compel DAS to provide them with a final response letter now. 
What I can do is provide Mr and Mrs D with the benefit of an independent review into 
whether I consider they were treated unfairly by DAS. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont think that was the case here. 
I know Mr and Mrs D wanted DAS to respond to every question and complaint they put to 
them. Those questions and complaints related to the conduct of the panel firm, so it was 
right for DAS to put that to the panel firm to consider in the first instance with a view to 
resolving things by contacting Mr and Mrs D in the first instance. 
On the issue of the Expert Opinion term Ive quoted above, I acknowledged why Mr and 
Mrs D might have been worried not having DAS input into the identity of an expert but 
equally I cant see that they specifically referred DAS or the panel firm to this term and asked 
for them to confirm their position on it. In responding to this decision, Mr and Mrs D havent 
been able to supply anything that confirms that was the case. And for the reasons Ive 
mentioned I dont think DAS have failed to adhere to their own policy terms. Mr and Mrs D 
did after all proceed to obtaining an experts report. They were given enough information 
about what they needed to do by the panel firm in respect of this and they werent prejudiced 
in any way by not having DAS express approval to that report either then or now. 
Mr and Mrs D feel my decision is based on unproven claims made by the panel firm. I dont 
agree. The findings Ive made relate to the actions of DAS. In reaching those findings Ive 
referenced specific correspondence between the panel firm and Mr and Mrs D in which they 
were provided with specific advice. That isnt an unproven claim; thats evidence Ive seen 
which supports my view that DAS were entitled to rely on the advice given in relation to the merits of Mr and Mrs Ds claims. And I havent seen any legal advice to the contrary that Mr 
and Mrs D supplied to DAS that makes me think that it was wrong for them to rely on this. 
Finally, I think its worth noting that its not this Services role to punish insurers. Were not 
their regulator. Rather its to identify if things have gone wrong and if so, direct them to put 
things right. In this case, I havent seen any evidence that DAS did something wrong, such 
that it impacted negatively on Mr and Mrs D. And its for that reason, as well as the detailed 
points Ive made in this decision and my provisional findings, that I dont uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman