DRN-3575787
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Aviva Life & Pension UK Limited unfairly declined a terminal illness 
claim on her and her late husbands life assurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr and Mrs J took out a level term assurance policy (the policy) with Aviva on 
23 June 2011. The policy provided £100,000 should either Mr or Mrs J die during the 
ten-year policy term. The policy also offered terminal illness benefit, which allowed for an 
advance payment of the sum assured if either Mr or Mrs J were diagnosed with an 
advanced or rapidly progressing and incurable condition (the Terminal Illness) such that 
the life expectancy of the Life Insured is no greater than twelve months. The policy excluded 
any terminal illness claims made in the final 18 months of cover. 
Mr J contacted Aviva in April 2020 to make a terminal illness claim. He explained hed been 
diagnosed with cancer and had been told his life expectancy was around three to nine 
months. Although the policy had less than 18 months left to run, Aviva agreed to consider a 
claim. 
Having obtained reports from Mr Js treating specialists, Aviva declined the claim in 
January 2021. It explained Mr Js treating consultants had been unable to confirm that his 
life expectancy was less than 12 months, so the policy definition of terminal illness hadnt 
been met. 
Mr J appealed and provided further evidence from his Consultant Oncologist, Dr R. He 
confirmed Mr Js was due to start palliative chemotherapy and that his prognosis may well 
be less than 12 months. Aviva reconsidered the claim but said the evidence still didnt satisfy 
the policy terms had been met. It noted the policy excluded terminal illness claims in the last 
18 months of cover and given it couldnt confidently predict whether hed die during the 
remaining policy term it couldnt accept the claim. But it accepted it hadnt previously 
explained how the policy exclusion may affect the claim, and so paid Mr J £300 in 
compensation.  
The policy expired on 23 June 2021. Mr J sadly died on 8 July 2021. 
Mrs J referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman after unsuccessfully appealing the 
decision with Aviva. She complained Aviva had falsely led them to believe a claim would be 
accepted, even though the policy excluded claims in the last 18 months. She said its offer of 
£300 compensation was contemptible and appalling given the way it had handled the claim. 
She also maintained that Mr J had demonstrated his life expectancy was less than 12 
months when he first made the claim. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought Aviva had
reasonably concluded the medical evidence didnt support that Mr J met the policy definition 
of terminal illness before the policy ended. She also considered the £300 compensation 
Aviva paid was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs J disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final
decision. In summary she said:
Her complaint hadnt been assessed properly as all her evidence hadnt been 
considered. 
The policy definition of terminal illness is contradictory and confusing. She thought 
that to have a valid claim they needed to demonstrate that the typical life expectancy 
for someone with Mr Js condition was less than 12 months. She only recently 
understood that the evidence needed to be specific to Mr J. 
One of Mr Js treating consultants, who Ill refer to as Mr A, a Consultant HPB 
(Hepato-Pancreatico-Biliary) and Laparoscopic Surgeon, provided a new report 
which confirmed that Mr J was told his life expectancy was less than 12 months in 
March 2020. His GP, who Ill refer to as Dr K, also confirmed the same. 
Aviva had previously accepted Mr Js life expectancy was less than 12 months as it 
had released his pension early following his diagnosis. 
By agreeing to consider the claim within the final 18 months of cover, and continuing 
to review further medical evidence, Aviva had effectively waived its right to rely on 
the 18-month exclusion. 
Avivas offer of £300 wasnt reasonable. She said Avivas handling of the claim had 
caused both her and Mr J extreme and unnecessary distress, stress and anxiety at 
an already difficult time. She said Mr J had wasted precious time pursuing his claim 
which Aviva knew would never be successful.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to offer my most sincere condolences to Mrs J and her family following the tragic 
death of her husband. I can see that shes been through an incredibly difficult time in the 
lead up to and following Mr Js death, and while pursuing her complaint. 
Mrs J has made very detailed submissions to support her position on this complaint. Id like 
to reassure her that Ive read and considered everything she has sent in  but I dont intend 
to respond in similar detail. I dont mean this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the 
informal nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So, if I dont comment on a particular 
observation or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just 
that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. 
Having carefully considered everything weve been provided Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know this wont be the answer Mrs J hoped for. I havent taken this decision 
lightly. I realise that the outcome of this complaint could have potentially life-changing 
consequences for Mrs J. But I cannot consider a complaint on compassionate grounds. I 
must consider whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in light of all the circumstances 
and evidence. While I dont want to add to Mrs Js distress, I think they have. Ill explain why.
Did Mr J meet the policy definition of terminal illness?Aviva is only required to pay a claim if the specific policy definition has been met during the 
term of cover. The policy conditions set out:
Terminal illness benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen months prior to 
the end date, the life insured is diagnosed as suffering from an advanced or rapidly 
progressing and incurable condition (the terminal illness) such that the life expectancy of 
the life insured is no greater than twelve months from the date the condition is notified to us 
by the planholders. In determining that diagnosis, we will consider the views of the life 
insureds medical adviser; consult the views of our medical adviser; and take the typical life 
expectancy for someone diagnosed with the terminal illness into account.
Im satisfied this definition is clear and unambiguous. So, Im satisfied Aviva was reasonably 
entitled to rely on it when assessing the claim. 
The policy conditions make it clear that the terminal illness benefit is not available in the final 
eighteen months of cover. This is not unusual for cover of this sort. The reason cover is 
limited in this way is to ensure claims are only paid when death is most likely to occur during 
the policy term. While this may seem callous or unfair, as our Investigator has explained, 
terminal illness benefit is intended to offer an advance payment of the sum assured. It is not 
intended to extend cover. 
In view of this, I think Aviva was entitled to assess whether the medical evidence supported 
that Mr J had a terminal illness, as defined by the policy, and whether he was likely to die 
before the policy expired. 
I should note that while Ive carefully considered Mrs Js arguments, I dont agree that Aviva 
waived its right to rely on the 18-month exclusion by agreeing to consider Mr Js claim or by 
continuing to consider later evidence. While Aviva was under no obligation to consider Mr Js 
claim when he made it in April 2020 - as it had been brought in the final eighteen months - I 
cant say it was unreasonable for it to do so. Aviva has explained that it was prepared to 
consider the claim as Mr J initially indicated his prognosis could be as little as three months, 
which would have fallen within the term of cover. If this was confirmed by medical evidence 
Aviva was prepared to honour a terminal illness claim, even though it strictly wouldnt have 
needed to do so. I cant say this was unfair.  
While assessing the claim, evidence was obtained from three of Mr Js treating consultants  
Dr I (Consultant HPB Surgeon); Dr A and Dr R (both Consultant Medical Oncologists). 
Although each of the treating specialists confirmed that Mr J was seriously unwell and 
suffering from an incurable and rapidly progressing disease, none were able to confirm that 
his life expectancy was less than 12 months or that hed likely die before the end of the 
policy term. And as such, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude the policy definition 
hadnt been met.  
In a report dated 11 August 2020, Dr I explained The median length of survival for patients 
with this condition from diagnosis is in the region of 6 to 8 months. Approximately a third of 
patients may experience a favourable response to chemotherapy and with a really good 
response this can extend life to 12 to 18 months. Given that Mr Js diagnosis had yet to be 
confirmed and chemotherapy hadnt been started, I dont think it was unreasonable at this 
stage for Aviva to conclude the definition hadnt been met, as there was no clear evidence 
he had less than 12 months to live. 
I think its also important to highlight that while statistics of median life expectancy are helpful 
when considering a life assureds life expectancy, theyre not conclusive on their own. And 
the policy conditions make it clear that Aviva would consider the evidence from Mr Js 
medical advisers and Avivas medical advisers before reaching a decision. I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to want evidence of Mr Js individual life expectancy, especially 
as chemotherapy was being considered, which could have had an impact on his life 
expectancy. 
When Dr A was asked to comment on Mr Js prognosis in his report dated 22 October 2020, 
he explained it is very hard to comment on this at the moment, based on the C4 cytology. 
His last CT scan demonstrated stable disease with no progression. Again, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude the definition hadnt been met at this stage. 
But even after Mr Js diagnosis was confirmed and his treatment plan agreed, his treating 
specialists were unable to provide a clear prognosis which indicated hed have a successful 
claim. 
In a letter dated 4 February 2021, Dr R explained that Mr J was about to start palliative 
chemotherapy within a clinical trial but his condition was not curable and that it may well be 
the case that his prognosis is <12 months. While Dr R indicated Mr Js life expectancy may 
be less than 12 months, he wasnt able to give a definitive answer, and by this time there 
was only five months left for the policy to run. As such, I consider Aviva couldnt reasonably 
rule out that Mr J would outlive the policy term.
A follow up report from Dr A dated 7 June 2021 again discussed median life expectancy 
rates and included a detailed narrative about Mr Js diagnosis and treatment to date. But 
crucially Dr A didnt confirm Mr Js life expectancy at that time.
Did Aviva accept Mr J had less than 12 months to live?
I understand Mrs J has questioned Avivas approach as she considers it has previously 
accepted that Mr J had less than 12 months to live as it agreed to release his pension funds 
early. 
Aviva explained that its requirements for early release of pension funds are not the same as 
for a terminal illness claim. It explained that as the pension is a sum of money an individual 
has accrued over time and which holds a cash in value, it is able to agree the release of 
funds on the basis of a GP ticking a box, and without a medical assessment. The 
requirements to satisfy a terminal illness claim are more extensive and would require an 
assessment of the medical evidence. I consider Avivas reasoning to be fair, and I cant 
reasonably conclude it should accept a terminal illness claim because it had separately 
agreed to the early release of pension funds. 
I can understand why Mrs J would have thought the form completed by Mr Js GP should 
have been enough to satisfy this claim. But Im satisfied Aviva was reasonably entitled to 
seek the opinions of Mr Js treating specialists, as well as its own medical advisers, before 
deciding if a claim is valid. Having considered all the evidence, I dont consider the form 
completed by Mr Js GP carries more weight than the detailed reports provided by his 
treating specialists. 
Does new evidence demonstrate Mr J met the policy definition? 
I understand that in the process of appealing this complaint Mrs J obtained new evidence 
from Dr K and Mr A regarding Mr Js prognosis. Both Dr K and Mr A indicate that Mr Js 
prognosis was less than 12 months when he received his probable diagnosis in March 2020. 
While this evidence appears on the face of it highly supportive of the claim, I must consider 
that this evidence has been written with hindsight. As discussed above, Aviva considered 
evidence from three of Mr Js treating consultants at the time of assessing the claim and 
none was able to confirm a prognosis that would satisfy the policy definition. But even if Dr K or Mr A had provided their opinions when the claim was originally 
considered, I still dont consider Aviva would have been obliged to accept the claim at that 
time. Aviva has said that it would have wanted to know the potential outcomes of treatment 
once a definite diagnosis had been reached and treatment decided. I think this is 
reasonable. Mr Js diagnosis was confirmed in November 2020 and he started a clinical trial 
in early 2021. The evidence received after this was still unable to confirm a life expectancy 
that was less than the time remaining on the policy.  
Was Avivas compensation fair?
Lastly, Ive considered whether the £300 Aviva paid in compensation was fair in the 
circumstances. And I think it was. 
Aviva accepted that it could have made it clearer when dealing with Mr J that the policy 
excluded claims made in the last 18 months of cover. But I must consider what impact this 
had on Mr J. 
As Ive set out above, Aviva was under no obligation to consider Mr Js claim and so I think it 
would be unreasonable for me to criticise it for offering to extend the policy terms in a 
situation where it thought a claim could be paid. I also have to factor in that highlighting the 
exclusion to Mr J from the outset could have dissuaded him from making a potentially valid 
claim  although the exclusion was clear from the policy terms and was quoted in the original 
decline letter.
I appreciate that with hindsight Mrs J feels precious time was wasted pursuing a claim that 
wasnt going to be successful. But I dont agree this was known or could be predicted before 
the claim was considered. Im satisfied that had the medical evidence supported that Mr Js 
life expectancy that was less than the time remaining on the policy a claim would have been 
paid. 
Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs J continued to pursue the claim even after the policy 
exclusion had been highlighted to them (March 2021). So while I dont doubt their 
disappointment, and no doubt worry, when they discovered the policy was more limited than 
they hoped, I cant say they spent more time on the claim than they otherwise would have 
done because the policy terms had not been made clear to them. In the circumstances, I 
consider Avivas £300 compensation was fair and reasonable.  
Overall, while I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs J, I cant say Aviva
has treated her unfairly. Theres no dispute that Mr J had received a terminal diagnosis. But
the available evidence didnt support that he met the policy criteria for a valid claim. As such,
Aviva is under no obligation to pay the claim and so I cant say it has acted unfairly by
declining it.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman