DRN-2867277
The complaint
Miss W has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the valuation 
it placed on her car when she made a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W took out motor insurance through Aviva. But when she made a non-fault claim she 
wasnt happy about the valuation it placed on her car, so she complained. Covea looked into 
things for her and went on to increase its offer and offered £125 compensation in 
acknowledgement of its poor service and the fact that it undervalued her car initially. As 
Miss W remained unhappy with the valuation she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her, but he didnt uphold her complaint. He thought 
that Aviva had valued Miss Ws car in a fair and reasonable way and in line with the trade 
guide valuations he looked at. So he didnt think it should increase the valuation.
As Miss W didnt agree, maintaining that her car was worth about £500 more than Aviva had 
offered, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know Miss W wont be happy 
about this, but Ill explain why.
I know Miss W feels her car is worth more than Aviva has offered, and I can understand this 
and her general point that the trade valuation guides arent the same. But valuing second 
hand cars is difficult and it is far from an exact science. And it isnt the role of this service to 
value Miss Ws car, just to look at whether Aviva has acted fairly.
When looking at the valuation insurers have placed on a car, I consider the approach they 
have adopted and decide whether or not the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. I pay 
particular attention to the various trade guides used for cars, as well as other evidence 
provided by both parties. 
This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars, but I place a lot less 
weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. This is because cars dont normally sell 
for the advertised price which are normally negotiated down. The condition of the car at the 
time of claim is also an important factor to consider. But I must emphasise that I will only 
order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Miss W feels that the trade guides are too wide as they produced differing 
valuations. But as Ive outlined valuing cars is far from easy and I wouldnt expect the 
valuations to match. But broadly they are in line and the offer Aviva made was towards the 
higher end of the valuations, so I think it acted reasonably here. The guides cover Miss Ws 
make and model and our investigator also used the trade guides to look at the valuation 
offered in concluding that its offer was fair. And having looked at the trade guide valuations I 
think Aviva has offered a fair market value for Miss Ws car. 
I know Miss W feels that this doesnt provide her with enough money to buy a like for like 
replacement vehicle. But I understand the adverts she provided in support of her position 
werent like for like and had less mileage so her car would be worth less. And, as Ive 
already outlined, Id expect the selling price to be negotiated down in any event. 
So, I think the trade guides are the best gauge of the general value of Miss Ws car. And as 
such I think Aviva acted reasonably in offering a fair market value for Miss Ws car.
Finally, Miss W has also raised a few concerns about the service Aviva provided and I can 
understand why. However, it offered £125 compensation in acknowledgement of its delay in 
communicating and for undervaluing her car initially. I know this isnt Miss Ws main 
complaint, but I accept that the service was poor here. However, I think Avivas offer of £125 
compensation seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman