DRN-3799431
The complaint
Mr S has a joint account with Mr S and complains about being racially discriminated against 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC on two occasions.
What happened
Mr S and Mr S visited a Barclays branch in 2022 to make a CHAPS payment and an 
altercation took place. 
Mr S says that an argument took place after he was asked to join a different queue. Mr S 
explains that he was falsely accused of swearing and being aggressive and when he asked 
for the cashiers name it was refused. Also, when he later returned to the branch, he says he 
was refused service and, due to him telling staff that their actions were racist, his account 
was closed.     
Barclays have a different version of events. They say that when Mr S visited the branch and 
was asked to join a different queue he started shouting and swearing demanding to be seen 
before anyone else. They explain that when they spoke to Mr S about returning to the 
original queue, he became abusive, and his accompanying family member (the joint account 
holder) apologised for his behaviour. Also, they say that when he later returned to the branch 
he was shouting and continued to allege the branch staff were racist and discriminating 
against him.
Barclays explain that due to the above-mentioned behaviour, a decision was taken to write 
to Mr S to give him notice that they were closing his account.
Mr S complained to Barclays who said they couldnt find any evidence that their team were 
racist or discriminatory. They said their staff deserve to work in an environment where 
customers arent shouting at them and making unfounded allegations. They added that they 
also had to consider the impact of Mr Ss behaviour on other customers.
Mr S complained to our service and our investigator thought that Barclays had followed their 
correct procedures and didnt believe they were being racist.
As Mr S remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Regarding the events that took place on Mr Ss visits to a Barclays branch, there are two 
different versions of the events that took place. So, I must reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
So, to corroborate Mr Ss testimony with available evidence, I checked whether Barclays 
could provide me with the CCTV footage of Mr Ss branch visits as this would provide 
footage of the events that took place on March and April 2022. Unfortunately, this wasnt 
available as Barclays only hold this for 60 days and didnt retrieve it for their investigation. 
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ss account of events. I asked for information on previous visits to 
the branch where he was asked to queue in a different area. In addition, as his family 
member (the joint account holder) was a witness and Barclays say he offered an apology for 
Mr Ss behaviour, I requested a statement. I also asked for the recording Mr S indicates he 
could provide where a separate but connected telephone security question was asked, 
which he felt was inappropriate, as he was asked which country he was born in. However, I 
didnt receive a response.
Regarding Mr S saying a Barclays representative asked for his country of birth, without 
additional information it is difficult to understand the context and timing of this event. 
However, I checked with Barclays if this could be a reasonable security question and, as I 
can see Mr S has a different country listed on his record, I think it is highly likely it was a 
legitimate question automatically generated to cross reference information.   
I considered the testimony from Mr Ss lawyer which confirms he heard, over the phone, a 
Barclays representative refusing to give their name over the phone. However, whilst I found 
this confirmed an altercation took place, without any additional evidence it is difficult to say if 
the Barclays representative did anything wrong by refusing to give their name as it was a 
small part of the altercation. Also, if Mr S was displaying aggressive behaviour, as stated by 
Barclays, I think it would be understandable for a staff member not to divulge their name.
I then considered Barclays submissions including file notes which describe Mr S shouting, 
swearing and being abusive to their staff.
So, considering all the above, I consider it reasonable for Barclays management teams to 
put in place different queue management systems to enable a branch to operate effectively 
and efficiently. And I think it is more likely than not that Barclays queue management 
systems caused Mr S to become frustrated and non-compliant, with Barclays subsequent 
attempts to both explain and gain compliance impacting upon Mr Ss behaviour. This is 
because it added to a feeling that he was being treated differently to other customers. 
However, although Mr S experienced a different queuing system, Im satisfied that this was 
the same for all customers on the days in question. So, I think Barclays actions were in the 
best interests of their operation, customers and staff and I cant see there was an intent to 
discriminate against Mr S because of his race.
I then looked at Barclays action to close the joint account. Just as customers are entitled to 
close an account, so too can banks. I checked Barclays account terms and conditions and I 
can see that these specify reasons which include where customers behave in a threatening 
or abusive manner to our staff and, they say that they will give at least two months notice 
before closing an account. So, considering this, the behavioural warning, two separate 
events and the notice given, together with it being more likely than not that Mr S displayed 
aggressive behaviour because he thought he was being treated differently, I think their 
action to close the account is fair and reasonable. 
So, considering the above I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman