DRN-3237696
The complaint
Ms F complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has unfairly 
removed unemployment benefit from her personal protection policy. 
What happened
Ms F took out a Self Assurance mortgage policy in January 2002 with Royal London trading 
as Scottish Provident, through a third party adviser. It offered life and critical illness 
insurance, along with disability income benefit and unemployment benefit for a 21 year term.  
Specifically in the event of unemployment, following an eight-week deferred period it would 
pay a total benefit of £4,800 for up to 12 months, if the unemployment persisted. The 
underwriter of this section of the cover was SureStone Insurance dac, an Irish company.
In 2020, Royal London told Ms F it could no longer continue to provide unemployment 
benefit under the policy, as it had been removed by SureStone. It had been notified by 
SureStone in November 2019 that it would not accept any new customers for the benefit. In 
March 2020 this was extended to existing policies. SureStone confirmed that its regulator 
(the Central Bank of Ireland) had notified it to withdraw the unemployment offering for all 
policies across the board.  
Accordingly, Royal London gave Ms F notice that the unemployment benefit (as well as 
premium payment benefit based on unemployment criteria) would end on 24 July 2020. Ms 
Fs policy premium was revised from the original £95.20 down to £76.92 per month.   
Ms F complained. She said it couldnt be fair that she had paid premiums over the years for 
one part of the cover to then be stopped. She had retained the policy on the basis that she 
had protection in case she should one day lose her job and need to make a claim  and as 
she got older, the unemployment protection was more valuable. She also complained that 
she wasnt made aware that her policy was primarily term assurance cover.  
In May 2020, Royal London rejected the complaint. It said it had attempted to find another 
underwriting business to replace SureStone but it was unable to do so. It also understood 
that the news would come at a particularly difficult time for affected customers given the 
outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. On that basis, it had told Ms F and other affected 
customers that if any claim could be made before 31 December 2020 it would step in and 
pay the benefit up to that date.  
Royal London said it was not party to the decision made by SureStone following it having 
undertaken a strategic review. To assist Ms F, it provided her with the link to the relevant 
information published online by SureStone relating to its decision. It reiterated that Ms Fs 
policy terms allowed for SureStone to withdraw the cover.  Finally, it said it could not agree 
to refund Ms Fs policy premiums because it had provided full cover to 2020 and for the rest 
of the term the remaining policy benefits were in place, with the appropriate premium.  
Ms F therefore brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He said Ms Fs 
policy terms made clear that the third party underwriter could withdraw the unemployment 
benefit. And Royal London didnt have any control over SureStones decision.   
The investigator also said the policy documentation issued to Ms F at the time of the sale 
made clear that it was term assurance, with life, critical illness and unemployment benefit. If 
Ms F had needed to make a claim to date, she would have been able to do so. Since the 
policy had provided her with insurance protection, the investigator didnt think Royal London 
had done anything wrong.  
Ms F disagreed. She said that Royal London ought to make clear that the three main 
aspects provided for by her cover (the life and critical illness cover, disability benefit and 
unemployment benefit) operated on their own terms, rather than as a complete policy. In 
fact, she referred to them as six components (each benefit plus premium payment benefit on 
the grounds of either unemployment or disability), and felt that if unemployment benefit was 
taken away that this undermined the structure of the whole policy, such that it could no 
longer be relied upon.  
Ms F also felt that Royal London had produced documentation now which was never made 
available to her previously.  
Our investigator explained that the policy comprised three main elements, for which each 
had its own policy benefit schedule; and one of the three  unemployment benefit  had 
been withdrawn, along with premium payment benefit on the same unemployment grounds. 
For the reasons he had already given, Royal London had been entitled to remove it. 
Mrs F still disagreed. She clarified that she had known throughout that her policy was one of 
term assurance. What she had meant was that Royal London was failing in its side of the 
arrangement by providing her the agreed cover for the entire policy term. She also said that 
the original 2002 documents were not supplied to her until 2004 because they were sent to 
an old address. She submitted that the sets of documentation appeared different and no 
explanation was given for this.   
She said when she originally signed up for the policy it suited her needs and requirements 
but the fact part of it had now been withdrawn had changed this.  
The complaint was then passed to another investigator. She reviewed the complaint but 
agreed with the first investigators findings. She did not think Royal London had acted 
unfairly in withdrawing the benefit, and it had been able to do so in accordance with the 
policy terms.  
Ms F said she wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. She also said she was 
confused by a 2003 letter relating to a change of underwriter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Ms F has been unwell recently, and send her my best wishes on her 
recovery. I realise she has gone to a great deal of effort to obtain documentation and make 
written submissions for this service to review. 
I have looked at everything Ms F has said but I wont be commenting on each and every 
comment she has made. Instead I will set out my findings below. These are a summary of my reasons on what I consider to be the core issues in the complaint. 
I do not believe this complaint should succeed. I say that because:
though I recognise Ms F says the information she has received in 2004 isnt the 
same as the original policy information issued to her adviser, I dont believe that there 
are any material differences in versions of documentation that affect the issues here;
and the information issued to her chosen adviser in 2002 has been evidenced by 
Royal London;
the material policy provisions are dated according to when Ms F took out her policy;
the headline document of the Self Assurance Mortgage policy is a policy benefit 
cover sheet which shows the three main benefits in a table;
it then has two further sub-tables showing that premium payment benefit (sickness 
accident or disability) and premium payment benefit (unemployment) applies to each 
of the three;
that document then explains how the basis of the contract is the application referred 
to in the policy benefit schedule;
each of the main benefits has its own schedule;
each schedule then confirms how this policy benefit schedule should be read in 
conjunction with the policy benefit cover sheet and the policy provisions booklet that 
accompany this schedule. Where words within the text of this schedule appear in 
bold their meaning is explained in the policy provisions booklet.;
for unemployment benefit (and the included premium payment benefit for 
unemployment) the policy schedule says:
Basis of benefit
The benefit is underwritten on our behalf by a third party. If the third party 
ceases to offer this benefit or is changed by us, we can withdraw or change 
the terms and conditions of this benefit in such manner as we deem 
appropriate in the circumstances.
the reason for this is that the two unemployment benefits were provided by a 
separate underwriter;
that was originally UK Insurance Limited, but the liability transferred to Primary 
Insurance Company Limited in October 2003;
an explanation of the change was set out in the 2003 letter Ms F has queried;
Primary Insurance Company Limited has since changed names twice, most recently 
to SureStone;
the policy provisions booklet (dated July 2001) also says in clause 4.4 how any 
benefits other than unemployment benefit and premium payment benefit 
(unemployment) under the policy are payable out of our Non Profit Fund. 
Unemployment benefit and premium payment benefit (unemployment) are payable 
by UK Insurance Limited.   
the policy terms are clear that the unemployment benefit aspects of the cover are 
separately underwritten and funded, and that these can be withdrawn;
this forms part of the agreed insurance contract between Ms F and Royal London;
I cannot therefore conclude that Royal London has broken the contract or that 
SureStones withdrawal of cover is a breach for which Royal London has 
responsibility;
the basis of benefit clause in the policy schedule allows Royal London to amend the 
provision of the unemployment benefits in the defined circumstances because those 
benefits are payable (and can be withdrawn) by the separate underwriter;
it has made reasonable efforts to retain the cover though it wasnt able to do so and 
given Ms F sufficient notice of the change;further, Royal London is not charging Ms F for the cover and has correctly reduced 
her premium proportionately for the benefits withdrawn by SureStone;
so whilst it is frustrating that this benefit can no longer be offered by the underwriter, I 
dont find that to be the fault of Royal London;
it has behaved fairly in the circumstances of severing that aspect of the self 
assurance mortgage policy. 
My final decision
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Ms F. But for the reasons I have outlined 
above, I do not uphold her complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman