DRN-4004855
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc didnt process cheques she paid into her business 
account.
What happened
Miss B explains that due to difficulties accessing a branch of Santander she was told she 
could pay in cheques through a third-party business. She did this without incident for some 
18 months and made sure the cheques had cleared. But one deposit of £269 made up of 
five cheques wasnt shown in her account. And she was told she would have to follow this up 
herself.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake. A paying in slip should have been included in the 
envelope Miss B gave to the third party. It recognised that Miss B had been able to deposit 
cheques without this for some time and by only writing her sort code and account number on 
the outside of the deposit envelope. And so, it paid her £50 as a gesture of goodwill. It had 
provided the details it had of the cheques and although had offered to provide photocopies 
then told her it didnt have these as the cheques werent processed. Santander suggested 
she keep copies herself in future.
Our investigator recommended that Santander pay Miss B a further £50 to make total 
compensation of £100. He said that the information online about the account set out that a 
payment slip should have been included in the envelope when paying cheques using this 
third party. And the recommendation was that a copy of the cheques be kept, and the sorting 
code and account number written on the back of each. Somehow cheques had earlier been 
credited without the paying in slip and this hadnt been pointed out to Miss B. But this time 
that hadnt been possible. He thought that Santander should pay the further compensation 
as it gave Miss B the impression a copy of the cheques would be available and didnt 
promptly tell her this wasnt going to be the case. He said that Santander had agreed to pay 
this.
Miss B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She explained that sometimes 
she didnt see clients again. She had been able to obtain a replacement payment from one, 
but she stressed the embarrassment involved. She had no way of tracing other cheques 
having only been given the sort code and shed wasted time going to the relevant banks only 
to be told that they couldnt help her due to data protection requirements. Miss B had made 
numerous phone calls and didnt think that this outcome was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that these cheques werent processed. As there was no paying in slip with 
the cheques Im not able to find that this was an error by Santander. Our investigator has 
referred to the guidance about paying in cheques to the third party. And although a copy of 
the relevant envelope hasnt been provided here, information available online indicates such 
envelopes would typically also refer to the need for a paying in slip. 
It's unfortunate that despite her efforts Miss B has only been able to recover one of the 
payments. In an attempt to assist her Santander said it would provide copies of the cheques, 
but these werent available. Miss B didnt have other business records to help trace the 
payments with her clients.
I dont consider Santander is fairly responsible for her loss here. But I do think that it could 
potentially have done more to alert her when previous credits had somehow been processed 
without a paying in slip. And to have given her better information about what it would be 
possible to provide her with this time. Ive taken into account what shes said about her calls 
and visits to other banks and our published guidance about compensation. Having done so I 
know I going to disappoint Miss B when I say that total compensation of £100 is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to pay Miss B a 
further £50 making total compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman