DRN-4391299
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (PrePay) 
wont refund unauthorised transactions taken from its account. 
Mr S, who is a director of T, brings this complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
In early 2023, Mr S received a call from someone claiming to be from PrePay. They asked 
him about a request he had recently initiated for a new card. When he confirmed he still 
needed one, they sent him a follow-up message via WhatsApp.
Mr S was asked to confirm some details, and to share a code he was sent, on the 
understanding this was necessary to verify him and action the request. However, it seems 
the caller was actually a scammer who had hacked Mr Ss emails. Through this, and the 
information he shared, the scammer was able to access Ts account and send two payments 
of £2,000 and £600 respectively.
When Mr S raised this issue with PrePay, it offered to refund half of the loss. It 
acknowledged his frustrations with the process for reporting fraud and said it was working to 
improve this. Mr S didnt accept this offer and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as they thought PrePay was liable for the payments in 
line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). They were satisfied the payments 
were unauthorised  and werent attributable to an intentional, or grossly negligent, failing by 
Mr S to keep Ts security details safe. 
PrePay has appealed the investigators outcome. It says Mr S put Ts security details at risk 
through gross negligent because:
It doesnt contact customers via WhatsApp, so Mr S should have realised this was 
suspicious. When he had previously sought support, it had communicated via email;
The WhatsApp messages dont show as coming from PrePay; they show as coming 
from a mobile number, and the sender doesnt otherwise identify themselves as 
PrePay. Yet Mr S trusted them and followed their instructions;
The device used to make the payments was added via an email sent to Ts 
registered email address, suggesting Mr S either shared this or his emails were 
compromised. And when he first contacted it about the fraud, he said his emails were 
secure;
Mr S shared the last four digits of his card, without which the scammer wouldnt have 
been able to get control of Ts account;
He also shared a One Time Passcode (OTP) used to add the new payee to the 
account. The message made it clear this was to add a payee, not for verification; and
Mr S should have been aware not to share the information he did as this is made 
clear from PrePays website, mobile application, customer service and terms and 
conditions. He was grossly negligent in not reading this material carefully. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
It seems PrePay accepts the payments were unauthorised. But it argues it isnt liable under 
the PSRs as Mr Ss gross negligence allowed the fraud to occur. 
Ive carefully considered the reasons it has given for this. There is a reasonable case for 
concluding Mr S was perhaps negligent in sharing some of the security details used to make 
these transactions. But Im not persuaded PrePay has shown his actions met the high bar of 
being grossly negligent. This is because:
Mr S has consistently maintained that, at the time of getting the messages, the 
sender showed as having a PrePay logo. While thats not captured in his 
screenshots, its plausible this is because the number was abandoned by the 
scammer following the scam. 
The messages also followed a call from someone claiming to be PrePay who knew 
about Mr Ss recent card request. In that context, I can see why Mr S believed he 
was genuinely speaking to PrePay  the messages werent unexpected, and the 
scammer was seemingly utilising knowledge about Ts account. 
While PrePay doesnt use WhatsApp to contact customers, I dont consider it so 
implausible it might do. Other companies do use WhatsApp for official 
communication. The messages were reasonably professional in tone. Following on 
as they did from the earlier call, I understand why Mr S trusted the sender. 
I think its likely the scammer did have access to Mr Ss emails and used this to get 
access to Ts account. This is because Mr S has consistently maintained he didnt 
use the QR code sent via email to verify the new device. While he originally said his 
email was secure, I think this is likely because he simply didnt realise the scammer 
had accessed his emails at that point. 
Mr S did share the last four digits of his card, which (along with the email link) 
allowed the scammer access to the account. But I accept he did this in the belief 
PrePay needed this to verify himself and order a new card. I dont think he foresaw 
the risk this would put his account at risk; it wasnt obvious to him this could be used 
to access his account, as he didnt know his emails had been hacked.  And he didnt 
realise he was actually speaking to a scammer rather than PrePay.
He also shared the OTP code used to verify the new payee. But in the overall 
context, Im not persuaded he was very significantly careless in doing so. He did miss 
that the message said it was for new payee verification. But he had been primed to 
expect a code for verification. So I think its understandable, and not grossly 
negligent, that he missed the reference to this being for a new payee.
I also dont think its grossly negligent that Mr S may not have read, or had forgotten, 
all the information PrePay has published over various formats which it thinks made it 
obvious this was a fraud attempt. In the context, bearing in mind the access the 
scammer seemingly had to Mr Ss emails, and the knowledge they had about Ts 
account, I dont think he showed serious disregard to an obvious risk. I think the 
details he shared were understandably provided on the basis he was speaking to Ts 
genuine account provider, and that the information was necessary to verify himself 
and request a new card. I therefore think PrePay is liable for the unauthorised transactions taken. So it should refund 
T, and pay 8% simple interest per year on the refund amount to compensate T for the loss of 
use of the funds.
Regarding the issues Mr S has raised about PrePays service and fraud reporting process  
as Ive already notified him, Im not persuaded the impact on T warrants compensation 
beyond refunding the loss with interest. And I cant award for his personal distress and 
inconvenience. So Im not awarding the additional £100 compensation suggested by the 
investigator.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct PrePay Technologies 
Limited to:
Refund T for the unauthorised transactions, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded; and 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, running from the date of the 
unauthorised payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
PrePay Technologies Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it T accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman