DRN-3868634
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund three transactions he says he didnt 
make and does not recognise.
What happened
Mr P said that towards the end of July 2022, he noticed three transactions had been made 
from his account but that he had not made them. He said he reported the disputed 
transactions to TSB on the same day but it had refused to refund the money. 
TSB said that the transactions had been made using a previously registered device personal 
to Mr P. And that as there was no evidence of any third-party involvement, it couldnt see 
how anyone else could have made the payments. 
Mr P wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it but didnt think that TSB had done anything wrong. Mr P was still unhappy, so 
he asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, therefore the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The key consideration for me, is whether I think its likely Mr P made the transactions himself 
(or allowed someone to do them on his behalf) or whether it was likely done by someone 
else without his knowledge  and by extension, whether its fair for TSB to hold him liable for 
the payments. 
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important, because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr P made the disputed transactions himself or 
authorised them to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask TSB to refund them. 
Having looked at the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
From what I have seen, I think its reasonable for TSB to come to the conclusions it has, I 
say this because;
Ive seen the electronic records which shows that Mr Ps registered device was used 
to make the disputed transactions. 
TSB have also provided the internet banking login history which shows that the IP 
address used was a known IP address that had previously been used to make 
undisputed transactions.
A new payee was created and therefore a one-time passcode was sent to Mr Ps 
phone and this passcode was then entered to set up the payments.
The banking log shows that the transactions went through further security measures, 
and Mr Ps memorable information were used to authorise the transactions.  
Mr P has told us that no-one else had access to the device and that he was alone in 
the house at the time of the disputed transaction. He has also told us that no one 
else knew his bank login details or memorable information. I therefore dont see how 
the transaction could have been made by someone else.    
Overall, having considered everything, all of the available evidence points to it being more 
likely than not that Mr P made the transactions himself. I realise that this is not the outcome 
Mr P was hoping for, but that is what the available evidence leads me to believe here. This 
means that Mr P can be held responsible for them. As such, I cannot fairly and reasonably 
require TSB to take any further action in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman