DRN-4271241
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Admiral Financial Services Limited (trading as Admiral 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable as it was the fourth one hed 
taken within a short period of time.
Background
Admiral Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £5,000.00 in August 2022. This loan had an 
APR of 12.4% and a 36-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£5,958.72, which included interest fees and charges of £958.72, was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments of £165.52.  
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and Admiral Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Admiral Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Ill explain in a bit more detail.
Admiral Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Admiral Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Admiral Loans provided Mr C with a loan for £5,000.00 in August 2022. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £165.52. 
Admiral Loans says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. And all of this information showed Mr C could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said the 
loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Admiral Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Admiral Loans has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. Admiral Loans searches appear to show that Mr C did have some existing 
debts. However, Mr Cs debt total at the time of the applications wasnt unreasonable in 
comparison to his income and his commitments were relatively well maintained. 
Furthermore, Mr C said that he was going to use this loan to consolidate some of his existing 
debts. And Admiral Loans could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it 
had available at the time. It wont have known whether Mr C would go on to re-establish a 
balance on the consolidated account  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on 
assurances from Mr C that the balance would be repaid with these funds. So Im satisfied 
that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce Mr Cs existing 
credit balance. 
Furthermore, as this was a first consolidation loan Admiral Loans was providing to Mr C, 
there wasnt a history of  Mr C obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts 
elsewhere in the way he committed to either. And Admiral Loans was reasonably entitled to 
believe that Mr C would be left in a better position particularly as this loan was for a much 
lower rate of interest than Mr Cs credit card.
I accept that Mr Cs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Admiral Loans obtained. Its also possible that 
Admiral Loans might have reached a different conclusion on the loan had it checked Mr Cs 
bank statements. I know Mr C says he owed more than what showed on Admiral Loans 
credit searches. But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. 
Given the amount advanced, the monthly payments and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, 
Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks didnt extend into requesting bank 
statements and Admiral Loans was reasonably entitled to lend to Mr C based on the 
information that it did have. As this is the case, I dont think that Admiral Loans did anything 
wrong when deciding to lend to Mr C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably 
relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Admiral Loans treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint, I would remind Admiral Loans of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event Mr C is having difficulty making 
payments. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman