DRN-2389966
The complaint
Mr R complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality and was 
mis-sold due to the mileage being incorrect. 
What happened
Mr R entered a HPA with MotoNovo in January 2019 to acquire a used vehicle. A week after 
acquiring the vehicle he raised concerns including issues with the clutch, an oil leak and rust. 
MotoNovo says that it was agreed the dealer would carry out repairs and so the complaint 
was closed. 
Mr R says that the dealer refused to carry out repairs due to the mileage it said he had 
covered. However, it was then discovered that the mileage recorded on the HPA was 
incorrect. The mileage at acquisition was recorded on the HPA as 125,258 miles when it 
should have been around 148,500 miles. Mr R raised a complaint with MotoNovo in August 
2019 saying that there was an engine fault and an oil leak and raising the issue about the 
mileage. 
Mr R says that he used the money he received in settlement of the mileage issue to pay for 
further repairs with third party garages but that the issues remained with the vehicle. In June 
2020 he raised a further complaint saying the braking system needed replacing. Mr R says 
that he should never have been provided finance for the vehicle given the mileage and that 
had he known the actual mileage he wouldnt have entered the HPA. He also said that the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply as it had faults present at the 
outset, including an oil leak that was noted in the MOT carried out in January 2019. He says 
the engine shouldnt have failed after only six months of use. 
Mr R says he has incurred hire costs for another vehicle as he needed transport for his 
business which was why he stopped making his payments under the HPA.
MotoNovo says that Mr R contacted it on 21 January 2019 about issues with the vehicle, 
including the clutch jamming, an oil leak and rust. It says that the complaint was closed in 
March 2019 as it had been agreed repairs would be undertaken by the dealer. It says Mr R 
later said the repairs hadnt taken place and he raised a new complaint in August 2019 
saying that the engine was faulty and that he had paid for several repairs and couldnt afford 
further repair costs. At this time, he raised the issue of the mileage discrepancy and said 
there was still an oil leak after it had been agreed this would be repaired. MotoNovo issued a 
response to this complaint in September 2019. It upheld Mr Rs complaint about the mileage 
discrepancy (for which it paid him an amount to reflect the impact the mileage would have 
had on the vehicles value), but it didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about the vehicle not being 
of satisfactory quality.
MotoNovo noted that Mr R had undertaken unauthorised repairs and said that there wasnt 
evidence to show the faults present with Mr Rs vehicle were present or developing at the 
point of supply. 
MotoNovo said Mr R raised a further complaint in June 2020 saying that he hadnt used the 
vehicle for a year, and it needed a new braking system. Mr R wanted the vehicle repaired or 
to be able to reject it. MotoNovo said that further evidence would be needed to show that the 
issues with Mr Rs vehicle were due to faults present or developing at the point of supply.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that the issue regarding the 
mileage discrepancy had been dealt with by MotoNovo and she said that had Mr R known 
about the higher mileage at the time of acquisition then she thought it more likely than not 
that he would still have acquired the vehicle. She noted that Mr R had been able to drive the 
vehicle 17,000 miles and although issues were raised shortly after acquisition repairs were 
offered at that time and she was concerned that if these werent taken the vehicle could have 
been driven with a known fault causing further damage. Overall our investigator didnt think 
she could hold MotoNovo liable for the issues with Mr Rs vehicle. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view. He said the vehicle was supplied with faults and 
reiterated that the oil leak was recorded at the outset. He said the dealer didnt repair the 
faults and he then had to visit several other garages and spend money on repairs before the 
vehicles engine failed. He said this shouldnt have happened after only six months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr Rs complaint. One is that the vehicle was mis-sold as the actual 
mileage was higher than the mileage recorded in the HPA. Second is that the vehicle wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. I have dealt with these two issues separately.
Mis-sale
Mr R raised the issue regarding the difference in the mileage amount recorded at acquisition 
and the actual mileage in August 2019. MotoNovo upheld this part of his complaint and paid 
him an amount to reflect the difference the mileage would have had on the vehicles cost. 
The final response letter regarding this issue was provided more than six months before 
Mr R raised his complaint with this service and Mr R accepted the resolution regarding the 
mileage. Therefore, I havent considered this issue further.
Mr R has since said that the vehicle shouldnt have been financed given the higher mileage 
and that he wouldnt have entered the HPA had he known the mileage. Motonovo has 
confirmed that had it known the actual mileage of the vehicle this wouldnt have prevented 
finance being provided. I also note that Mr R accepted the resolution regarding the mileage 
discrepancy and that the MOTs carried out at the time of acquisition had the accurate 
mileage recorded and so I do not find on balance, that the evidence suggests Mr R wouldnt 
have entered the agreement had the correct mileage been recorded at that time.
Satisfactory quality
Mr R reported issues with the vehicle in January 2019 and the complaint was closed as 
repairs were agreed. A new complaint was raised in August 2019 noting an ongoing oil leak 
and other faults (as well as the mileage issue noted above). MotoNovo said that further 
evidence was needed to show the issues were present from the point of supply. Mr R then 
raised an issue about the braking system. MotoNovo issued a final response letter in which it 
said that it would need an engineers report to show the vehicle was either not fit for purpose 
or not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the issue of satisfactory quality was addressed in MotoNovos final response letter addressing the issues raised in June 2020 
and this hadnt previously been resolved, I have considered this aspect of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R acquired the vehicle through a HPA. Under the regulations MotoNovo is liable if the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. When assessing satisfactory 
quality, it is reasonable to take into account factors such as the age of the vehicle and 
mileage. In this case the vehicle was almost eight years old at acquisition and it has been 
accepted that the mileage was around 148,500. Given this it is reasonable to accept that the 
vehicle would have experienced some wear and tear. With used vehicles, it can be the case 
that issues can occur shortly after acquisition even if these werent present at the point of 
supply. That said, it is fair that Mr R would expect the vehicle to be sufficiently durable in line 
with its age and condition.
Mr R raised issues with the vehicle, including an oil leak, a week after acquisition. It isnt 
reasonable to expect issues so soon and I find it reasonable that the dealer would have 
offered to undertake repairs. The dealer has said that a couple of issues were addressed but 
then Mr R raised further issues with MotoNovo which he hadnt raised with the dealer and 
that Mr R didnt return its calls. Mr R has said that the dealer refused to carry out repairs as it 
thought he had driven a higher mileage than was the case (due to the incorrect mileage 
figure).
Given the conflicting evidence, I have considered what, on balance, I think is most likely to 
have happened. In this case the vehicle passed a MOT on 17 January 2019 after failing on 
14 January which suggests any repairs needed to make the vehicle roadworthy were 
undertaken at that time. I note in the 17 January MOT notes that a central front oil leak is 
recorded but this is said not to be excessive and was recorded under the monitor and repair 
if necessary section. Based on this I do not find I can say that the vehicle shouldnt have 
been provided to Mr R following the 17 January MOT and as this information was available 
to Mr R at that time had he not wished to go ahead with the acquisition he could have 
discussed that.
Mr R raised the issue of the oil leak with MotoNovo and it appears that repairs were agreed 
and undertaken. Had Mr R not been happy with the actions taken at that time I would have 
expected him to have raised this with the dealer. However, the dealer says that after it 
repaired a couple of things Mr R had asked to have fixed he didnt come back to it and then 
raised a new complaint with Motonovo. The dealer says it tried to contact Mr R about the 
new complaint, but he didnt answer or return its calls. It wasnt until August 2019 Mr R said 
that the oil leak was never addressed. If Mr R was concerned about the oil leak and didnt 
think this had been repaired when raised I think continuing to drive the car until August 2019 
raises concerns about possible drive on damage. Mr R continued to drive the vehicle and 
given his business this resulted in a high mileage being covered and by September 2019 he 
had driven the vehicle over 16,000 miles. 
Mr R has also said that he had repairs undertaken before raising his complaint in August 
2019 and further repairs before he raised his next complaint in June 2020. Given the 
mileage he had covered, the possibility that drive on damage had been caused and that 
repairs had been undertaken by third party garages I find it reasonable that MotoNovo said 
that further evidence was needed to show any ongoing issues were due to faults that had 
been present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr R had diagnostics carried out on the vehicle which showed faults were present but in 
order to hold MotoNovo liable I need to be satisfied that the ongoing issues with Mr Rs 
vehicle were not due to wear and tear or any issues such as drive on damage, and instead 
were due to faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. In this case I 
haven't seen evidence to show the cause of the faults was due to issues present from the outset and given the repairs at other garages, mileage covered and other information 
available I do not find I have enough to be sure that the issues were due to existing faults.  
So, while I can see how upsetting the experience with the vehicle has been for Mr R, given 
its age and mileage at the outset and the mileage Mr R was able to cover before the engine 
faults occurred and the braking system failed, I do not find that I can say the vehicle wasnt 
sufficiently durable and therefore not of satisfactory quality. I also do not find I have enough 
to say the current issues are due to faults present or developing at acquisition rather than 
wear or tear or other issues.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not find I have enough evidence to say that FirstRand Bank 
Limited trading as Motonovo Finance is liable for the issues with Mr Rs vehicle.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman