DRN-4355504
The complaint
Mr I has complained about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline his claim under 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr I contacted UKI to make a claim at the beginning of November 2022. He said hed hit a 
deer and that his car went into limp mode after this because there was damage to the gear 
box. UKI arranged for the bodywork on Mr Is car to be repaired and investigated his claim. It 
then declined it on the basis it was fraudulent. And it said it would be recovering its outlay on 
the claim from Mr I. This was because it thought the evidence suggested the incident Mr I 
was claiming for had not happened on the day he said it did. UKI thought it happened 
around a month before this and that Mr I was trying to claim that the damage to his gear box 
was caused in an accident when it wasnt. 
Mr I complained to UKI about it declining his claim and the delay on its part in reaching its 
decision to do so. UKI wouldnt alter its stance. So Mr I asked us to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators did this and explained why she didnt think it should be upheld. This 
was because she was satisfied, based on the evidence available, that UKI was entitled to 
turn down Mr Is claim and recover its outlay. And that the time it took to investigate it was 
reasonable.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it for the same reasons as our investigator. This is 
because I consider UKIs decision to decline Mr Is claim and recover its costs is reasonable 
and I see no reason to interfere with it. I also think the time it took to investigate the claim 
was reasonable. Ive set out why I think this below:
When Mr I called his roadside assistance provider he did not mention the problem 
happened after hed hit a deer. This suggests to me the incident had not just happened 
at this point. I appreciate Mr I has said he mentioned hitting a deer to the operative who 
came out, but it is not in his notes, so I think it is unlikely Mr I did mention it. 
Mr Is version of events in his conversations with UKI and its agent were inconsistent, 
which suggests the incident he claimed for didnt happen in the way he suggested. 
I do not think the Pedestrian Protection System (PPS) on Mr Is car could have been 
activated in the incident as described by him in November 2022, as it had been disabled, 
probably as a result of a previous incident. Also, Mr I said it went off in an incident in 
October when he narrowly missed a deer. And I dont think this would have happened 
based on the expert evidence Ive seen. This adds weight to the view that Mr Is version 
of events isnt what actually happened. 
It did take UKI some time to investigate Mr Is claim and decide whether to accept it. And 
in this time repairs to his vehicle were carried out. But I think the time it took was 
reasonable in the circumstances and was a result of the lack of credibility of Mr Is 
version of events. 
In summary, Im satisfied UKIs decision to decline Mr Is claim and recover its costs is 
reasonable. I also think the time it took to investigate the claim was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Is complaint 
against UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman